ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17868	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 57th session of the House of Representatives of the House of Representatives and colleagues once again welcoming you, and I welcome all the guests present who have been invited to this session today. Today, we called on those who regularly call, the chairman and members of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and representatives of the OHR, the OSCE, the EU, the Special Representative of the Council of Europe, the Head of Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Representative of the Observatory Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the Embassy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who expressed interest in monitoring the work of the Parliamentary Assembly, the UN, representatives of NGOs of the Centre for Civil Initiatives and the Centre for the Promotion of Civil Society. Representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Official List, the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Public Advocate of Bosnia and Herzegovina were also invited. I welcome all the guests present here, from the ones I've listed, and of course all of them, if I didn't list someone here in the opening statement. I welcome, of course, media representatives. I want today's session to have its own successful work. According to a report by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament's Office, I find that 35 MPs are present at the moment, and Mr Ibrahim Đedović justified the absence from today's session. Mrs. Duraković Nijaz and Azra Hadžiahmetović announced that they would be late shortly. Mr. Nakaš also announced that he would be late. And that's what I'm getting from the notices about attending today's session. In any case, distinguished colleagues and colleagues today's session, as you have seen from the published number of present have the conditions for full work and decision-making. You received a draft agenda in the invitation to the session. In relation to this proposal, I would like to inform you that we have two amendments. The first is that we have removed the seventh item of the agenda, that is – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina because the competent commission has requested an extension of the deadline to make the amendment known. This was decided by both colleagues this morning, so both the College and the College in the extended composition. 2 And the second amendment was that we included the motion for a decision to determine the termination of the parliamentary term to Mr. Ivo Miri Jović. You've been given a new draft agenda. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Who wants to talk? Mr. Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17869	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests, of course, I agree with the proposed agenda, but what I would like to draw attention to to the Representative Council of the Parliamentary Assembly and seek the active relationship of this House would be the following. You know that after the resignation of the originally appointed general auditor in July of last year, the Parliamentary Assembly, both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, decided to give consent to the appointment of the second general auditor, with the conclusion that the term of office of the auditor-general is up until the end of the current mandate of the deputy general auditors. Afterwards, the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency appointed Mr. Šega as the auditor general, saying the appointment decision would determine the mandate of the auditor-general will be laid down in accordance with the law. Given that these days the term of office of the Audit Office has not been laid down by the current Audit Act, the legitimacy of the management is at stake, amid the start of the 2004 audit process. The precise date of the term of office is difficult to determine, as the initial decision was wrong and was subsequently amended and delivered, and formal entry into office for objective reasons came a little later. There are, of course, different interpretations in this country. At the same time, the OHR-based advisory group, the World Bank, the EU, the Swedish Office for Auditing the USD, three offices for the revision of BiH, made up and provided the Council of Ministers with a new draft law on the revision that has been stopped for unknown reasons, which should be prevented from taking place in this situation that we have today. The current Law on the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was published in the "Official Messenger of BiH", 17/99 in Articles 6 and 7 decidently states that the general auditor and deputy general auditor, appointed the BiH presidency exclusively with the previous consent of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes. I therefore believe that Parliament which has adopted the Law on Audit should also make a decision and a conclusion extending the mandate of the Office's leadership until the adoption of a new Law on Audit and so on of the management and reports which are prepared to give full legitimacy. Because if nothing is done, the leadership and the audit report that are being prepared are at stake. This is just for the sake of little introduction that you know chronology and you know that we have reached a conclusion and in that sense I am not looking for a new point of the agenda, but I think for the seriousness of the situation this Parliament, this House must have an active relationship and in this sense I propose a conclusion that overcomes the problems that have arisen because there is no new Law on Audition. 3 So I suggest the conclusion number one that would read 1. Prior consent shall be issued to the appointment of the Auditor-General and the Vice-General until the adoption of the new Audit Act. So as not to open the controversy now, are they legal, or are they not legal reports for 2004 and conclusion number two. It requires the BiH Council to deliver a proposal for a new law on the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina without delay and to act in accordance with the law. So, I'm asking for your understanding. It's not a non-serious thing, it's not a matter to lead heavy political debates, it's looking for the active relationship of this home, because without this home it's impossible, so it's impossible to choose both without this and without the House of Nations. But now that we are in one situation that is undefined, the mandate in preparation is audit reports. We as Parliament must act responsibly and propose that the term of office should continue until the new law is passed and, of course, we should warn the Council of Ministers that, as soon as possible, it should pass the law into parliamentary procedure. I know the law is done. Thank you very much. And I'm asking for understanding.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17870	I thank Mr. Nikola Špirić. The word came from Mr. Jozo Križanović, according to this electronic record. Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17871	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a certain point of view on the third item of the agenda, that is – a request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Act on additional value, to be included in this session today by a hasty procedure. I would like to remind you that at the session of the College in the extended composition in front of the last session, we were considering the possibility of including this item of the agenda in the previous session, but we concluded at this college next, let me quote that conclusion - That the Council of Ministers should be asked for information on how long reforms have taken place in this area and the explanation, why they did not respect the deadline set out in the Law. I believe that this information is very important from the point of view of informing this home as long as it has ever come up with a reform of the tax system in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to consider today this bill, which mainly refers to the extension of the deadlines set by law, is not so much a problem in technical terms. However, there are many reasons to be concerned at all about the process of preparing for the introduction of VAT, and even how it is proposed by the bill and early next year. In that sense, I think that today we will be very disabled in the assessment of this proposal for amending and supplementing the law without one relevant information. I'm afraid, if today, and what has become a practice for us with several previous laws where we have made it very easy to make four amendments and to supplement the law on extending deadlines without valid explanations, that we will also be in a position to get a similar draft of the law in autumn with new deadlines again. In that sense, I have very large reserves with inclusion in the agenda of this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17872	I thank Mr. Križanović. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17873	The Party for BiH MPs' club has similar thoughts in the way Mr. Križanović spoke, practically I was in the past, the pre-expanded College, what Mr. Križanović spoke of as an argument. However, we appreciate that it is better and more useful to remain on the agenda of the request to be discussed under Article 105. In the debate, we'll be able to point out all this stuff and some more. We expect, which would be quite logical that the motionor, or applicant, will appear at the level of the minister, will at least try, unlike the reasons given in the application of the bill, convince this parliament in an argument as to why it is seeking. So, as far as we're concerned, we're here to stay on the agenda, but to try to secure the proposing and open a serious discussion in the overall relationship between Parliament's administration, etc., which Mr Križanović was talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17874	I thank Mr. Belkić. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? Mr. Sead Avdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17875	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable guests of the MPs, I think it is instructed that on behalf of the SPU Club and two independent MPs, I propose that information be submitted today on the state of talks to bring Bosnia and Herzegovina's police force reform into line. It cannot be a private matter, conditioned by the president of political parties. This home must be informed of the information, i.e. the state of the conversation, given the alarming headlines in the newspaper, etc. It doesn't make sense that MPs really learn, simply draws information from the daily press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17876	Thank you very much, Mr. Avdić. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17877	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would only like to talk about Mr. Avdić's proposal, which he made, since I have an obligation in a certain way, since, if I am not mistaken, Mr. Špirić was also yesterday, I feel responsible for supporting this proposal because I am in a completely different capacity, and I was a member of Parliament at the talks both at Vlasic and yesterday in Konak, and I think it would be necessary, as I said it would be necessary, given the drama that took place last night, given the fact that in two days there are meetings of the CTF that should practically give the green light for what this Parliament has chosen, which is to speed up the path to European integration, given that last night's drama in Konak will most likely have something that is not pleasant for serious people and for the citizens of this country. I think I would like to join Mr Avdić's proposal and colleagues who initiated this today to make it possible for us to be chaired by the Council of Ministers, as co-chair of the negotiations, because the chairman of the Council of Ministers, together with the High Representative, was in the position of the co-chair of these negotiations, to address us and to give us information about what it was. In view of my colleague Avdić's co-chairship and practically three hours before the ceasefire, I myself, self-initiatedly interrupted my presence there and contributed to the drama that was going on, could be enough of him to at least tell us what he knows, what was going on while he was there, and could also be the chairman of the others to give us, and in any case I consider this extremely important and I consider it an obligation as a man sitting in this parliament and who should not know anything more than the other members of Parliament because he was objectively unprivileged, but unfortunately only being present on another point.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17878	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. Mr. Momčilo Novaković answered the question. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, you've already got the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17879	I thank the chairman, fellow Members of the SDS Club, it is not that we are having a debate today and that we have no information from the party, so we have no information from our people who participated in the negotiations in front of the SDS, and given that everything that has happened in relation to the work of the previous committee, and that this group of information is not a measuring group for us, so it is not who we can believe in and therefore we do not want to participate in this kind of debate until we get information from all sources. So we need to know exactly from everyone, especially from the sources of our party what's agreed there and why there's been a interruption of the conversation so that we can even support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17880	Thank you. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? Mr. Milorad Živković. Here you go. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17881	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would suggest that in point 11(b) of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. under c) of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on common locations at our crossings, another annex, Annex VII concerning the border crossing of Costa Rica, is added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17882	Thank you. Who else does? Mr. Lagumdžija had a need to say something. Here, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17883	Me, for what Mr. Novaković said. I believe that today, I am so fellow Avdić that the agenda point would be information by the chairman of the Council of Ministers who was at the same time co-chairing it, because all these negotiations were in the function of what is the conclusion of this Parliament, which is a positive opinion on the continuation of the process of coming to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and what they say, whatever we conclude, it will happen in two days, that meeting of the CTF. So, it would be good for Parliament to be informed in this function, and what will be said about this information and whether something will be concluded is something that comes out of the domain of debate on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17884	Thank you very much. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate on the agenda. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have had four remarks on the agenda that can be classified like this. So, first of all, it is Mr Špirić's proposal to adopt a working conclusion on the auditors and as far as I'm concerned, so since we have determined that there are no working conclusions on the agenda, we will vote on this as the next 12th item of the agenda, and then we will open a debate on this issue and see what conclusion we will draw. And otherwise, I think this is a very important issue and that we need to discuss this, because the Office for Auditing Institutions must work. Mr. Križanović and Mr. Belkić each expressed their views on VAT and Article 105. I want to inform you that here I share your dissatisfaction. You sent the letter to the Council of Ministers. We didn't get the information, but that doesn't stop us from going into procedure, and I've only learned about it and there's nothing to say about it. Mr Avdić and Mr Lagumdžija's proposal will certainly be subject to a plea. Whether it will be the next item, the report by the chairman of the Council of Ministers on the course of police reform, the agenda point. 7 And Mr. Milorad Živković proposed to include Kostanica as one of the points of these border crossings. We didn't get into parliamentary procedure anything related to Kostajnica Rica. When it comes, it will be the agenda point, Mr. Živković. So we're pleading on these two things. The first is the proposal by Mr Nikola Špirić to be a point of the 12th agenda, in fact, a proposal of these conclusions, which Mr Špirić spoke of. Prepare to vote. Vote. To make a suggestion of his conclusion to the agenda. The audit office. We're renewing the vote. Is it clear what we're voting on? Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 33 for, one against, one abstention. Enough entity majority. The 12th item of the agenda is – The proposal for conclusions offered by Mr Nikola Špirić regarding the Office of Audit. Please multiply, this proposal concludes and delivers to the MPs. There's plenty of time. Mr. Avdić and Mr. Lagumdžija's proposal to appoint the chairman of the Council of Ministers, as the 13th item of the agenda, to supply information, or to submit oral information, or writtenly related to police reform. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 21 for, 13 against, 2 abstentions. There is a general, no entity majority from RS. Can we agree that it's going into the agenda? So there's no consent of all the members of the College. We're going to the second round. Let those who are against RS because they are, there is an entity majority missing. Prepare to vote. It's the ones who are against it. Vote now. 11 against RS, more than 2/3 and this is not the agenda point. So it's not accepted. Mr. Špirić wants an intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17885	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to make it clear why I voted against it. Because Adnan Terzić is not what Zlatko said, he was worthy of staying until the end so that he could inform us. If it had been the conclusion that Pedi Eždaun as a man who sat around all day informing, he would have voted for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17886	Thank you very much. 8 Collars and colleagues on the 57th session of our home reads, 1 / 1 Journal of the 56th Session of the House of Representatives, 2. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax by Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 4. Proposal for a Law on the Public Radio System of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 5. Proposal for a law on borrowing, debt and guarantees of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 6. Proposal for a Law on Foreign Service (first reading), 7. A Report on Financial Businesses of the Official Journal, 8 / 8 Attorney General's Office's report, 9. Proposal for an interpretation at the request of the Commission for naturalisation, 10. Proposal on the termination of the decision to determine the termination of the term of office of Ivo Miri Jović, 11. Giving consent to these agreements that you received in invitation and 12. Mr Špirić's proposal as the 12th item of the revision agenda. I didn't read it on purpose until the end. You know what the agenda is. Moving to the first item of the agenda, that's Ad. 1. I'm opening a debate on the record at the 56th session. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. We're voting on the record. Vote now. - 36 for, no one against, no one abstention. Enough entity majority. The record was unanimously adopted. Second item of the agenda, Ad.2. MPs' questions and answers The answers to this session were Vinko Zorić, Azra Hadžiahmetović and Sead Palavrić. We also received an answer from Minister Radovanović on the issue of Mladen Potočnik, Seade Palavrić and Sead Avdić, concerning the taking of an oath of troops in Manjaca and Bilja. Any comments on the answers? Mr. Potočnik, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17887	The first comment is that I won, Mr. Chairman and colleagues this three minutes ago. Secondly, this is just a report I could read in the paper. And a report like that and an answer like that doesn't make any sense. I thank such a Council of Ministers and such a minister of defense. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17888	Further comments. Thank you very much. New questions. Who's got any new questions? Please write, Mr. Moranjkić is first in line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17889	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, lady fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, simply and simply, I don't know who, but I do ask, and I ask the College to decide who this question will be forwarded to. 1. Who prescribes rules of conduct, are such public laws not prescribed anywhere about the SIP and other various escorts of various personalities, and themselves who are involved in public traffic on our roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it is evident that they are doing torture and it is unnecessary for other participants in public traffic and from hanging, demonstrating probably the power of the state, or modern hiduchi on the roads? 2. Who in this country is in control? In fact, several times they wrote about this information, unfortunately without some effects, even though the consequences of this behavior were both evident and fatal. I am informing this Parliament and the entire BH public that I have been returning from last session of Parliament and I have experienced this torture on the part of the road between Maglai and Doboj since Mr Paravac's escort. I seek the condemnation of such behavior and the written answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17890	Thank you very much. Who's next, secretary? Mrs. Majkić Dušanka answered, I saw.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17891	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to refer the issue to the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations with the abroad. Import duties on production equipment constitute a burden on the company's business and make it difficult to modernise production activities which have a negative impact on the efficiency of domestic production. Despite the fact that the initiatives for amending the Customs Tariff Act came from different addresses and entity governments and different business entities, and despite the fact that this initiative was supported by the Bulldozer Commission and that the Council of Ministers was due to refer Parliament to the parliamentary procedure of amending and supplementing the Customs Tariff Act, which was also to cover this issue, despite the fact that the Administrative Committee for indirect taxation gave its consent to the proposed amendments and additions, at its meeting of 23.8th, there was no change to Article 176 of the Law. Accordingly, I ask a parliamentary question - How long has it been since the amendment of the BiH Customs Policy Act, which would allow domestic investors to be freed from import duties for equipment used for production, in equal terms, and in order to contribute to faster development of production and employment? I beg your answer on the written path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17892	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Andrić Filip. Have Mr. Lozančić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17893	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've been answering before, so it looks like a technique.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17894	I'm sorry, we've got double recording and handlifting and technique so we can figure it out.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17895	When you asked, there was also a comment on the subject, we have a few more comments.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17896	There's no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17897	I'll put that comment in touch with the attorney's question.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17898	That's the smartest thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17899	And the question would be, I ask our secretariat when will I begin to obtain materials in Croatian and Latin, as a representative of the Croatian people? I have just received this response in Cyrillic and in Serbian, with all due respect, I really have problems focusing on reading this so that I can discuss it. So please let me answer me clearly when. If they think they should never say. If you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17900	Okay. Thank you very much. Mr. Ivo Lozančić. Here you go. Let Mr. Tihomir Gligorić prepare himself. He checked in electronically, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17901	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the reason for today's issue is to launch and finance two studies by the World Bank. A study of reconstruction and a study of the development of 11 gas sectors that also point to chaos existing in the energy system, which is one of Bosnia and Herzegovina's most chaotic areas and wants to regulate it at the state level. We have power on the issue of policy-making in the energy sector, especially when it comes to gas and oil at entity levels, so that in the Federation we have Energoinvest, BH Gas Sarajevo, Sarajevo Gas, which deals with gas imports, distribution, i.e. transport and consumer service. In Republika Srpska, we have the gas traffic of Pale and Sarajevo's Gas Lukavica. It is clear from this point of view that we need to get to a certain reconstruction of the gas sector as quickly as possible and prefer law, namely an independent gas regulatory commission at national level, the formation of a transmission business company as the most favourable solution for the gas industry sector. A study of the gas development sector preferred the importance of the fact that the definition, implementation of the gas infrastructure development project should be an economy not only to predict, not only the overall potential of the gas market in both entities, but also to provide the plans of neighbouring countries with conditions for gas supply. My question is to the Council of Ministers – Is the Council of Ministers planning to take part in the regulation of gas and oil problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in what way and at what time? - Will systematic solutions be proposed through the Law on Gas of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Law on Oil in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or will they go with a statement in politics to mention the energy that has been regulated as the electricity sector? This would be a question about, and I said that I reserve the right of last time to comment on the question and I have to say that I am not satisfied with the answer and it is the impression that the Council of Ministers has a certain service that only works in order to send us the question, although in all the issues so far, there have been such issues that could help in the work of the Council of Ministers. They may even have to find the Council of Ministers' agenda in some way and warn of certain needs when it comes to the complete single and economic space of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but so far I have not come across an answer to be meaningful and to justify our questions in some way.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17902	Thank you very much. Mr. Tihomir Gligorić. Have Mrs. Sead Palavrić prepare.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17903	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. My parliamentary question refers to last session when we had one. means the Parliamentary Assembly, which reads - Why did the BiH Parliamentary Assembly not sign the Resolution on Anti-fascism on 9 May, because it was the occasion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly calling, as well as who is responsible for this failure? I ask for a written answer from the College, now you smile, no problem, precisely asking you for a written response on the decision-making phases in both homes of the resolution, when it was finally signed, as who decided on the protocol performance of BiH presidency member Mr Sulejman Tihić? Did you have any consent and how you decided? To just write it down for us. And was there any possible abuse later in the course of the address itself, which I would like to hear from each individual member of the College? Simply, we have decided that we have a Parliamentary Assembly, we have worked on the Resolution on the Antifascism of the SDP Proposer and at the same time we have received a new situation that we have not discussed at all, and we believe that we should have, at that time, that, when you had already sat down so nicely from both homes as a college, you six people that you signed this before our public opinion, in front of our journalists, that we shared it and that people saw it, because I think Mr Sulejman Tihić could also hold that speech in the Presidency. However, we can still see that he is never there when we have meetings of the House of Representatives or the Parliamentary Assembly and his presence does not bother us at all when he is not here, I do not know what the day was necessary, as far as I'm concerned. So, here I'd like to ask you a written answer to what I'm about to provide you with a precise letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17904	You'll Dobićete an answer in writing. Mrs. Seada Palavrić. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17905	I just want to ask the services of the Parliamentary Assembly, actually our home to direct the emergency to the judicial authorities to answer the questions that I recently asked the Prosecutor's Office, the Court of BiH and others.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17906	Thank you, too. Anyone else want to ask a question? Mr. Vinko Zorić. Let me see, and here you are, you're definitely up, and there's you in the machine. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17907	Like this. I have one initiative under the Regulatory Agency that the Regulatory Agency is reviewing the recording of the show on federal TV 60 minutes since 16 May 2005 and that the editor has assessed whether he has exceeded his powers in commenting and withdrawing the parallel between some events, and it is said that he mentioned in some context a memorial event in Bleiburg held on 14 May this year. And I think that, personally, I think that the editor has exceeded his powers, that no memorial assembly, especially a gathering he has organised for 11 years, I would tell the largest body in the Republic of Croatia, to us a neighbouring country such as the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, and I don't think it serves us as the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, nor does it serve the media the honor of pulling out such parallels, and that he is giving comments as he has given and that this assembly marks it as he has marked it. It was a memorial gathering held every year, especially it does not serve the honor of mentioning model Cardinal Vinko Puljić in this context. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17908	Thank you. I don't have any more reports. I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving to the third item of the Ad.3. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Act on Additional Value by Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the Amendment Act and the amendments to this law have been given, with the request for an emergency procedure, at the 56th session. The extended Dom College, which was held before the start of the 56th session, concluded that the Council of Ministers was asked for written information on how long the tax reform had taken place on an additional value as well as an explanation of why the deadlines laid down in the law were not respected. We haven't gotten the information yet, but here's the minister, Mrs. Ljerka Marić, I'm asking her to speak together. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17909	Good afternoon. I welcome you all and ask your attention. At the 80th session held on 6.4, the Council of Ministers laid down the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax and decided that due to very small changes, technical small changes, it asked Parliament to adopt this law in accordance with this procedure 105, i.e. by an emergency procedure. I know that the comments will be in a way that actually the law has just been passed, and it is already changing. What we are proposing as amendments, i.e. the Management Board of the Indirect Taxation Administration, actually comes down to the first version of the Law, in which it was written that the implementation of VAT, i.e. the collection of VAT in the country, would begin as of 1.1.2006, and that the registration of taxpayers should begin to operate 1.7. In the meantime, we have come to the conclusion that these deadlines are too narrow and that, because of the large number and technical and organisational reasons, VAT law cannot really be implemented, that is to say, VAT law 1.7, but these aids have been implemented since 1.1.2006. We, meanwhile, adopted the VAT implementation plan on the Management Board and we have 4-5 pages here. Now I've been praying for it to be copied to share. So there are exactly steps and what's done, what's going on and comments on it. So this is still the current current situation related to the situation under the VAT Act. So what's going on, it's on these four pages. I would share that meaning to you and in this way we would be in progress, so that this can really be considered, make as one report that would then be much and aesthetically better, but so these are the steps that are precise and accurate. So it would be very good if today could be voted under this emergency procedure and adopted this because after publication it would be clear that the registration of the obligor will be done with 1.7 of 14 1.7, and that the payment would still be from 1.1.2006, which is partly conditioned and by delivering software that actually allows a series of these steps, because we are not able to actually implement it earlier. So I'm asking for your understanding. We're going to share your implementation plan, and I think it would be a good idea for us to adopt this proposal that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17910	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go. Well, Sead Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17911	Here I have announced, supporting to include this request in the agenda to consider the law under Article 105 for reasons that we could conduct a serious debate on this issue at all. I very much appreciate the fact that we had a minister today and here it looks like today is going to be a practice that for every almost legal project we will have in front of the promoter an authorised person to say so to the highest level of the minister and I welcome it and I want that practice to continue, of course. However, when it comes to the Council of Ministers' request that this law, that the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax be considered under Article 105, I must point to several, in my opinion and the Club of BiH MPs, very serious reasons which do not convince us that this law should be supported. Therefore, instead of a very serious report on the course and results of the reform, or rather the implementation of the VAT Act and the serious arguments for the pro-longing of the law established by the deadlines, MPs were given the application of the Law in the light of the next finding that the Law was obviously late and this is the reason for the adoption of amendments and amendments. He further says they have voiced concern about whether the home administration will be able to carry out the registration provided for by law within a certain time limit. And that's all there is to it. If you analyze the proposed changes, you will see that these are three groups of changes. The first amendment is therefore to exempt itself from the taxes of products and services under international aid projects in which Bosnia and Herzegovina is bound by a contract to ensure that such projects are not burdened by VAT. I do not know that projects can be burdened with VAT, except of course products and services, and the reason is that practice is in transitional economies, some transitional economies without assessing order size, without assessing effects etc. where we were very zealous when we discussed bread, medicines, textbooks, etc. So there's no argument for this change. Technical corrections are also a group of amendments and additions, of course what it says about the intrinsicity in the construction of legal projects, including, of course, those professional services and legislative bodies that should control these situations. And when it comes to moving deadlines, when it comes to moving deadlines, it's only in sentence, it's obvious that the Law, etc. It must be amended, as deadlines will not be met, etc. Therefore, the Party for BiH MPs' club cannot in principle support the amendments and additions of this law in this way without a report on the implementation of the Tax Act on 15 added value to the reasons, serious reasons why deadlines are moved, etc. And of course, I hope that everyone agrees, I no longer see another way to seriousise the relationship between the Administration and the Management Board to this Parliament, not to mention the 100th anniversary conclusion of January of this year on the Law on Excises, Sales Tax, etc., the agreement to say so, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17912	Thank you. Mrs. Seada Palavrić. Let Mr. Moranjkić prepare himself. Sead Avdić is applying. Write it down.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17913	Dear colleagues, dear ministers, I am truly sorry that I have to show my own negative attitude towards this request, because it is not about the technical little changes as you have said in the introduction, but it is about the fact that such a significant law will not come into force as planned, we will not realise the resources that we could achieve, and in my opinion, responsibility for this is borne by the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board, which behaves in a way that this parliamentary assembly and this House do not exist at all. Namely, we had already heard a few months ago that these deadlines were extended, in the media we could hear that KAFAO said the Management Board, the Administration supported and deadlines for entry into force of the Law were extended. So I think that these are really neither small changes, nor such a relationship can be with us who are to answer to the citizens who have chosen us. So if the media are right and if the deadlines for entry into force of the law are extended, then the law should not even be before us. We also have no answer to the question why, in the second half of May, we have no problem choosing software. We have no guarantee that this behaviour and requirements and the Council of Ministers and the Management Board will be the last when it comes to this law, because what if within a month we are required to enter into force, I do not know for half a year, and I personally do not trust in such projects because the Management Board and the Council of Ministers have not responded in the way we have requested when it comes to amendments and additions to the Law on the Transport of Goods and Services and Excises. On 31 January this year has passed, the Commission has in this case had the task of making changes and additions. But half a year is coming and none of us are doing anything. I'd like to get answers, more answers to questions, in any case chairing a statement on this, on the procedure, I'm asking on behalf of the SDA Club break of 15 minutes. So, when the discussions are over.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17914	Okay, well, we heard all about it. Mr. Muhamed Moranjkići. Have Mr. Sead Avdić prepare himself. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17915	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, for the last Parliament, I have said something about the appearance of this amendment and the addition of the law and I cannot say it today. First, I stand on the background and colleagues Belkić and colleagues Palavrić, but I add the following. We have been breaking down here for a long time and trying to convince the legislator whether he was a good timer or not when he proposed the law and the time terms to follow the realisation and entry into the life of that law. We have here a hundred percent belief that everything is ready, that the personnel are prepared and the other conditions that allow. But here you see today such a requirement arises that one law that can essentially be said has not even begun, should experience changes and changes. It then seems to me to be one unserious thing both in this House and by the promoters. And normally, that such a thing cannot be accepted as a man or as a Parliamentarian, especially if I understand it so that we amnesty those who have not done the bill properly first, and have not practically done part of their job that they want to do. To hide behind Parliament today, and to continue perhaps with a part of the bad, not to say that there was something going on, you can see from this report what Ms. Minister said, but not enough has been done, and therefore you are asked for prolonging. I am not and cannot accept that this paragraph takes back those who do not carry out the tasks they have taken, just by the final decision of this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17916	Thank you. Mr. Sead Avdić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17917	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, for asking a really objective question after a few steps forward whether this parliament in essence decides on fundamental issues and contradictions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, legislative projects etc., etc. Whether the centres of power moved somewhere outside this parliament and in this context are sure to be reduced, I would say both by way of responsibility and by that mission of bh Parliament, the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why am I saying that? I speak only for the reason that it has already been decided before, it is simply now on the move to vote on these amendments under article 105 and it says in the explanation, I will continue where my colleague Belkić left off and he has not completed the explanation. It's catastrophic. He says this, if the deadline is not met by the Tax Act on additional value, it provides for strict penalties. However, BiH has no administrative capacity that can carry out the registration process, point. This is an unsustainable situation for you that will create a catastrophic economic uncertainty for BiH's economic operators. This will cause major problems for BiH if the VAT system loses credibility, even before tax collection starts. I'm really having an aferiti with whoever wrote this argument. This is a disaster, one. So where's this indirect tax administration, how, who's modeling these arguments and so on? Who guarantees that in 6 months we will have a similar explanation and similar procedure of amending the Law by Article 105. So I also have to give a review, it's nice to listen to my colleague Palavrić, really when he's worried about these legal projects this way, but it would be good to do it before. So in the Council of Ministers as the most powerful parliamentary means, the cross in the parliamentary majority, that 17 really makes sure that these issues are not, that it is a little bit more informed, because it is the parliamentary majority of people who need to know what is going on in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17918	I thank Mr. Avdić. I don't have any more reports. The minister asks for a word, then we'll move on. Mrs. Ljerka Marić, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17919	I'm just asking for a little more attention. You know that when the VAT law was passed, we had a big and extensive debate and that we also discussed the deadlines for the application of this law for a long time. In that time, because it started last year at the 9th month or even before, we estimated the possibilities in a way that we thought would still be realistic, that it would be possible to implement the law before and that the actual implementation, or that the collection of income would begin during this year. So, from the deadline that was 01.07 at some point in time until the end of the year, we've been considering the possibility of starting to collect. This is a very large and very extensive project. What we did in quality and what we did in a way to ensure stable and clear, transparent revenues to this country was done when the Transport Tax Act, the Excise Act and the Single Account Act came into force. So the country has currently secured clear revenues. The first report on the charged revenues has been addressed to the Council of Ministers in 3 months, we will forward it to Parliament to look at what is happening, as the administration in the meantime works two jobs, three jobs. The first is reorganising business to establish new customs and tax services and another 3-4 sectors together. It is adapted to work, business in such a way as to apply the Law on Transport Tax and the Act on Excises, to work and to work other than collection, to work on the processing of these data, projections of certain incomes and, worst of all, 4 laws in the field of violations, administrations, etc. They are not yet finished which, in fact, by passing these laws will improve the safe operation of that administration in a way that will ensure clear procedures within the framework of sanctions. In the meantime, all that can be done in parallel to ensure the implementation of the Value Added Tax Act. So there's a lot of jobs, though, that one reorganized, new administration, organized in a way that has four regions and headquarters in Banja Luka, would be, it would be really organisationally too much to expect these people to be able to do all these jobs so quickly. Our intention was indeed to make a consolidated budget for the state, entities and Brcko District in a way that the projection of these revenues is made clear and to take into account that the effect of the application of the VAT Act and these unique tax rates should be the same. We called it neutral, i.e. to ensure incomes that would be equal to the incomes which we are now making based on the application of the Transport Tax Act and the Excise Act. In the meantime, in the past coordination of prime ministers and finance ministers, the substantiation of entities, the initial work material relating to the story that we need to be very clear, related to the social aspect of this law, which means the implementation of a possible programme of social care for people who will mean that, because of the application of this law, they are more vulnerable than they were now, based on the application of these other laws. 18 I ask you to look at this implementation plan which I have provided you, which is not written in the form of the report, but is written but is adopted and valid, to see clearly what has ended in the meantime. It is certain that when it comes to the application of any law, it can always be done faster and more. In this case, it's what it says. So, because of what I'm telling you right now, it would be necessary for us to have clear indicators during the 2006 budget, which we started to do now. So, on the basis of the amendments to this law, it will be clear to all of us that since 01.01.2006, tax will be charged, and indeed the media have talked about it, because the decision is first made by the good, bad, whatever, on the board of directors, where the state and entities meet. So such a decision has also been made within entity governments. You know, the tax area within the fiscal is shared jurisdiction along with the entities. And because of all this, where it's done, it's even more burdensome because of this great width of these jobs and everything else, to respect that thing. As regards the amendment of the article, in Article 1 of this Act on Amendments, where it is said that... this acquisition of goods etc. It's been freed, that's how it is now, that's how it's been since the first day this country started working. So when international agreements are signed within them, a provision can be taken not to pay customs duties, for something where tax is not paid, and that means it has been taken over and applied to this law. It's not any new provision. It's that provision that means there is now. Because of all of the above, because we should have the clear indicators that we need, because of the 2006 budget, because of the planning of the annual budget to which we have also accessed, because this side of the budget is much more important than this expenditure party, which is coming on this basis, and depending on how much revenue we will collect, it would be good to adopt these amendments and supplement them now, according to this procedure, to produce a much more comprehensive one report on the work of the current administration that works in this part of the implementation of the VAT and maybe to schedule one thematic session when it comes in and when this social programme is drawn up. So, then that would be comprehensive and in the meantime, I hope that in the field of direct taxes, the activities that entities are obliged to do will end. So in the area of income tax in the area of profit tax, because our budget consists solely of these indirect taxes and some fees. Entirely, they have some other sources. We must all together, in accordance with the Law on an indirect taxation system, that is, the Law on the Financing of Institutions, make a consolidated budget together, divide within the framework of what belongs to and then start spending. So, comprehensive activities refer to the whole country. Entities have given consent. It would be good to make it clear today to everyone who deals with this job, what they should do and that everyone else can come more seriously to continue work by the end of the year. So, I propose a session where the report will be related to revenue under the Law on Transport and Excise Taxes, amendments to the Law on Transport and Excises, the Social Programme and here means that this has come, a special sector, not more teams, for the works of VAT, but a special sector that has from the initial 10-12-17 people, has now hired me don't know 200-300 or how many people, now they're going to write us that report and let's see about registering what's going on. They started doing these tests, so that's one part that's technically, which should be very precise, etc. So, I'm asking for another vote today to be amended and complemented by this law. Thank you. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17920	I thank the minister. Mrs. Ljilja Milićević, please. Let Mr. Jozo Križanović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17921	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I would firstly support Mrs. Marić's proposal that she has just tabled, to hold, means one thematic session, where she will come out with the report, in general, on the activities so far, on the stages, on the plans for work. I'd like to say hello. As far as this proposal is concerned, the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Tax Act to an additional value goes according to Article 105. I can't be surprised by a miracle, since this point of the agenda began, that people who are always for 105 and from the sky and into ribs, for all possible variations, 105 hold the entire tirads about how this shouldn't go up to 105. Here when you look at it, here it goes in the commission phase, if it goes in the short procedure, maybe you'd write 9 instead of 8, 7 instead of 6. This is just a matter of fact, the legal framework of bringing it down means the fact that we're in a phase of reform, the fact that we're in a real legal framework. Well, at least we from my club are always against 105th Decidence. And today we're sitting here listening to all those who always support 105 claim that this calendar can't go up to 105, and this is one short calendar. I, therefore, have been suggested here to change the minister, director of the administration, so I would say that there is a reason for that, simply running activities at the indirect taxation administration are put into a real calendar. My personal objection is why our ministry didn't come before this parliament earlier, if we didn't find out from the papers about this, why didn't we get one timely information, if we had received this implementation plan earlier, Madam Minister, we would know today why this was real, that changes and additions of the law were going on. So we could get the plan in materials, just to go into it, where we're in a phase of application of this law and, in any case, based on this implementation plan and realisation, it's clear why this is supposed to go into 105 today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17922	Thank you, too. Mr. Jozo Križanović. Have Mr. Selim Bešlagić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17923	I thank the chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, I will not repeat what I was saying within the agenda point when we adopted the agenda. But I would like to remind you once again that I am disappointed, again disappointed by the Council of Ministers' relationship with this Parliament. The essence of today's debate is what guarantees we have that the deadlines that will be changed today will be changed by this amendment and by supplementing the law. Here's why I ask that question. Satisfying where colleagues Belkić and Avdić spoke, quoting some of the very short, some sentences from a very short explanation for the adoption of this law, I would, and on that I would ask one question. 20 It is said that amendments to the Value Added Tax Act must be adopted urgently because, in accordance with the current provisions applicable, potential VAT bonds are registered for VAT registration by the end of March of this year. The question arises, if we knew, and we knew that provision from the law, what the Council of Ministers waited until 28.04 to address Parliament for amendments to the law. The question arises, in this month and a half, so from the end of the 3rd month, here is to half and more than half of the 5th registration of taxpayers. If it is committed, then it is illegal, subject to sanctions etc. Based on this, and everything that's been going on so far, like, that the Direct Taxation Authority communicated with the media and long ago told them that there was nothing of these deadlines and that since the application of the VAT law, we can only expect it in the following year. And why wasn't it two months ago, three months ago when it was seen that these deadlines couldn't be respected, why they didn't go with the bill's amendment. I would like to say that the good part of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board is already bringing certain BiH companies into a delicate position, that they can even be prosecuted, because of indemnity and negligence, I would say first of all to the Management Board, the Direct Taxation Administration and I to this occasion, I want to publicly show my mistrust to the Management Board, the Direct Taxation Authority for the whole relationship, because of the actions taken so far to prepare the implementation of this law, and in that sense I will also choose when voting on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17924	Thank you. Mr. Selim Bešlagić, let Mr. Adem Huskić be prepared, after which Mr. Lagudmžija Zlatko and Potočnik Mladen. That's all I have reported. You heard the order. Adem Huskić, I, this is a machine that means that she reacted with a stroke, and here you are going to be wiped out. Here you go, Mr. Bešlagić, then Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17925	Dear colleagues, honored guests, let me just express myself through a few words. What the Minister of Water said today, she was supposed to do when the law was passed. We have indicated that it is not possible to introduce VAT in 6 months, that it is not logical to introduce VAT in half the fiscal year. But that didn't go away. It is then said that we need this and that it is here in Parliament and supported by a vote for this law. There were also obligations after the 31st draft law on amendments and additions to excise duties that the Council of Ministers never did, and what surprises me, is that today the minister is taking responsibility for which I think she is least responsible. The board of directors is responsible for this situation, and I would say the management of the Directorate for indirect taxation. I will be very brief, after a report like this, behind which the Ministry or the Minister who is present here today, I am in favour of questioning the responsibility of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board and showing them mistrust. That's what I'm saying, for one simple reason why it seems to me that today if we adopt this, and all MPs have expressed their dissatisfaction, I'm afraid they will accept that this administration is responsible for informing us that it is not possible for all of this to be realized, and we will again be able to have the situation of the Minister again to come here and beg for deadlines because my Bog my administration has done nothing of what she was expected to do. 21 Therefore, I think it should be said here that the VAT project, not by the correct relationship between the Administration and the Management Board, or for indirect taxation, put this project at risk. And that is why I ask that they personally be called responsible, to express their mistrust and then to make a proposal based on a good analysis that would exactly introduce the dates and deadlines of the implementation of this project that is very important for us, for BiH. I think it is the only solution, that this parliament will make it clear that it cannot play with projects considered of vital interest for BiH and BiH citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17926	Thank you. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija has his word. Let Mr. Potočnik prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17927	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, earlier than that... my colleague Ljilja Presidents of the Commission whose member, two months ago, we were told in the media that there would be a delay. And we were then asked to be given from the commission, to give us relevant information, to explain to us first whether it was true, because with infidelity we read it, this of the people who convinced us more than half a year ago that everything would be as planned. Let's be very practical. Whatever we adopt today, let's say we accept this as a member of 105 and adopt this, the question arises whether 01.01. So whatever we adopt this mechanism from the Council of Ministers, the Management Board, through the Directorate for indirect taxation, nothing will speed up or slow down. So this is simple, whatever we adopt, since 01.07. there's nothing. So, we can today, say, refuse this, moving deadlines, but yet they'll do nothing but act against the law. Now, if we adopt that it's 01.01. they'll be late but everything will be in accordance with the law. Why am I saying this? Because our minister is here, I'm with great suspense, and this, by waiting, I've been waiting to see this VAT implementation plan that the minister has most visited us. And I was thinking just when we get it, then we're gonna ask for a break to take a little look at it, or we're probably gonna ask to postpone this, to study that plan a little bit. But what we got here as a plan doesn't require a break or a delay. This is not the VAT implementation plan, but this is actually evidence that the people who worked on this need to stop working on this as soon as possible, so that maybe one day this will be within a reasonable time frame. Oh, I'll be exact when it comes to what I mean. We asked the Council of Ministers not to mention what it should be in that information that counterpart Križanović warned at the beginning and counterpart Belkić, only in another way, from the protection of domestic production, from the protection of the poor, from the additional taxes that were concluded to be in front of parlament four months ago, let's say, there was one, here Mrs Palavrić was attacking me and not only me but also others who spoke like this, when she defended the gallantly, along with other people from the parliamentary majority, this VAT that would introduce us to Europe, then we were told that the social programs would be here before us and that in fact, it would be this VAT because when these social programs started, then it would even be said, to my question, how do you think, what social programs, then one of the colleagues said, we have all of these social programs in the drawers. I would suggest now that you open a drawer if you weren't 22 six months ago. But, I mean, there's no need for Parliament to conclude that the drawer is opening, so they've lost their keys. Fellow coalition partners from the SDS lost their keys. They seem to have your keys. Oh, Bog save me, I'm just embarrassed that this one looks like I've got a smile on my face, actually I've got a cramp on my face because it's just so sad. That's all I'm saying because it's obvious that this implementation plan we got here, and actually look at it, please, look what's standing here. Here, the implementation plan says, a plan for the IT area and network action will be announced, starting in 11 months 2004, instead of being completed, it says. Translated for those who don't know, you see that the complete computerisation project of all of this is actually nowhere. You can see that between the rest and because it says that the infrared structure of IT is starting to be installed a month ago. Here says in progress, then there's a note, the work on topology locations for the UIO active directory started. When I give this to my peddler, he'll tell the professor, so this will be two years from now. The way it says here. The AIT system for the registration process is ready, now. He says the software prototype is ready. Translated in your language, we have nothing. This is where our obligation also stands. It says Parliament adopts the law on indirect taxation. You know when? Six months ago. And it says here it's in progress. Do we know anything about that? Not for us. Did Ljila come before our financial committee? It's not. Why? Because there's a note here, the board of directors adopted it on 02.03. So the board adopted it 2.5 months ago, and none of us know anything about it. What? Because it's waiting somewhere. Where? In that drawer. It's not in that drawer, so it's in the other drawer. So now we've come up, now there's a search for drawers. There could be some new conclusion now, all the drawers to look for, etc. I mean, this is really embarrassing. Please be careful, the tax sectors in the regional offices have been functioning. When? A month ago. What's up with that? He's late. Why? He says neither personnel nor rooms are available. So, look, please, the tax sectors have been working, what's gone? Praise the people and praise the rooms. Great. And what's left? Well, there's a prototype software left. I mean, this is really, this is a mess. Because of this in every and every non-serious country, and you can imagine what's going on in the serious, serious countries of the Council of Ministers long before it's done. And call a new one. In non-serious countries, they change. So, in serious countries, they leave themselves. In non-serious countries, they're being replaced. And we're here today. It says, the Law on forced collection, indirect tax was passed by Parliament, you know that by our side, by us. You know when we figured that out? Two months ago. You know what happens to that? It's in progress. What does that mean? That means we don't know shit about it. Why? Because the Management Board is in the process of consulting entity financing and budget committees. Why isn't he with us? Because he doesn't cut us because he sees that we're not serious about this and they can do whatever they want. He says the general guide said the VAT was published. When? A month ago. Note, it's not going to happen. What? Because it's involved in a communications tender. What about the communications tender? He's late. How much? Three months. When will it be? You don't know. That's what we got here as an explanation. Now what? Šefik, trust me, I won't go any further. I'll stop here. I could do this. This would be for Monti Pajton. This is a disgrace, as I say. I mean, don't give us, you better not give us this. Don't give us, then do what you want, make fools of us, but don't think we're fools, so when you read something to us, it'll go right through our heads like we've got hollows between our ears. So, my proposal, Mr. Chairman, conclusion number one, 23.1 that the Council of Ministers comes out with the VAT implementation plan in front of the Paralment, but not with what you're going to share after the minister says, believe me, we have. To come out with one serious plan. Tell me how long it'll be. The VAT implementation plan should be included in my opinion, if you want in one conclusion, the VAT implementation plan also includes an implementation action programme, an action plan for the social programme. What, you can do it as one conclusion or two conclusions, anyway. So, the plan, the VAT implementation plan and the social action programme... and the third conclusion, 3. Run the Board's shift in accordance with the law. In accordance with the law, I don't need to read what it is now, we can do it if you want to explain it. It doesn't have to be the whole thing, let them pick up who it is. This Čarls Dikens, apparently takes us to a country of poor children, this Dikson is if I apologize. I'm always after him with Čarls Dikens. This Dikson guy's got to fly for sure. This Haris Bašić here, who fell in there with the pears on the board, is not operational. Okay, the minister is in office, so you can't change her, you can only replace her... but those who sit on the board of directors, that's all to be replaced because of this. That's the third conclusion. So, I suggest, sir,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17928	Don't insult the people who are here, no one there has fallen off a pear, I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17929	Haris Bašić is a man who insulted me in the paper
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17930	Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17931	He insulted me by his newspaper, in which he went out in natural size.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17932	I'm here in the O.R., you know Mr. Lagumbian, uh, this is a session I'm responsible for what's going on here, I'd react and to you to say something like that, believe me, I'm asking you, please don't do it, don't do it here. And you guys keep going, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17933	Okay. So the man didn't fall off the pear. There, okay, I don't have any solid evidence that it was a pear.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17934	I ask you to continue your discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17935	Nothing, you have three conclusions. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17936	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Lagumdžija, thank you very much. I still have Mr. Mladen Potočnik, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17937	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, according to the established scenario, we are politicizing on a serious matter and on a serious project called VAT. Both the more orderly and the more serious countries have approached it more studioly and in the longer term. I believe that with the best intention of the Council of Ministers proposed in 1.07, I believe that later he realized that it was impossible and I believe that with good intent they proposed what they proposed today, means by procedure, by 105, and I believe that they should be given confidence, because VAT is one of the laws that brings stability and prosperity to this country, whether they join me or not tomorrow. But exactly the party's position and apparently the opposition's parties still want, in principle, the worse, the better, to participate in both this parliament and the political scene of BiH. All these parties have signed that for a trip to Europe, the conditions that we have not yet met are both the police and the Public Service and we are obstructing both the solution to the public service problem and here, obviously we want to obstruct also in the VAT area today. That's why I support this law. I trust the Council of Ministers will do so, so that we can take at least one step right, if we're not capable of everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17938	I thank Mr. Potočnik. Since no one's answered for it anymore, and I haven't seen you. Replication to your exposure, to Mr. Lagumdžija's exposure. Come on, can you give up? And if We were to bring them in, it would surely cause them to die.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17939	No, I won't, since I've been mentioned by a man. We
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17940	Godpođa Milićević, the replica, please, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17941	So our commission took all the laws she got and the suggestions, into consideration. We couldn't consider this because it goes into 105. I just have to say it means what was up to the Finance Commission, you've been involved in the work, we've been working, I appreciate Mrs. Marić's explanation and I accept it and I think it's far more real. You see, here in this report we've received, we need to separate the Directorate for indirect taxation and the Management Board. And just, I think it takes one conclusion to the management's management of indirect taxation, means not according to the board of directors, to go in the sense that this management is being maximumd in carrying out these drawn steps, to make maximum efforts. God Bog now that I'm listening, today this story that we've adopted the differentiated rates we've proposed, and then we'd be putting this off for 2010. 25 Like this, one rate, so we've put off a little bit, but I would really go with the conclusion of meaning towards the director and these people to the assistants, because there are a lot of technical things that could have been done here, spaces, training, information that I can't figure out, it's not up to the board of directors or anyone else, I'm afraid we have a problem with that local manager. And the conclusion would go in a sense, so according to management, if the conclusions were considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17942	I thank Mrs. Milićević. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I conclude the debate, since there have been no further reports. If Mrs. Palavrić stays at the request for a break, you'll stay if she is, 15 minutes if she is. Then I give the Rules of Procedure a break of 15 minutes and we continue 5,10,15, 10 to 12 or 11:50, as you will. Mrs. Palavrić, president of the SDA Club, asked for a break, I give her my word, please. [[PAUZA]] The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17943	So we held a club session. We have been informed that the Council of Ministers has requested a session, a thematic session, in connection with the implementation of the VAT Act, and we are prepared to support this law and procedure and the law, provided that the thematic session is held as agreed by the College, which will discuss the plan for the implementation of the VAT and the social programme plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17944	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we move on to a plea. We'll vote first on the legal procedure. If the procedure gets the required majority, we'll vote on the law. After that, Mr. Lagumdžija suggested three conclusions. Those conclusions will also be made known. So we're going to vote on everything that's been democratically said here. Stand by. We're talking about the legal procedure. We vote on the procedure under Article 105 for the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the VAT Act. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 18 for, 11 against, 14, 4 therefore, there is no entity majority from RS. Shall we get along? Shall we go, shall we agree? Wait, uh, you can, you don't have to, we can go, don't, we have to deal with this today, so it's an emergency question, we need to know where we are. I'd like to inform you that the College has reached agreement, that the procedure under Rule 105 of this Law is accepted. 26 And now we're going to vote on the law. So I inform you that in this card break, the College has reached agreement to accept the procedure for this law under Article 105 and I declare that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has adopted the procedure under Article 105. Now we're going to make a statement about the law itself. Will the MPs come in? Are there any other Members, Mr. Jovanović? Please tell the MPs to come in, let's get to the point of the law. We're talking about the law itself. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 20 for, 4 against, 11 abstentions, 14 FBiH, 6 RS. I find that there is a parliamentary and entity majority and that we have passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the VAT Act. We move on to a statement on Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's proposal for a conclusion. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija has proposed three conclusions, and as far as I could understand the text of the conclusions, the first conclusion would be that the first House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly requires the Council of Minority to deliver the VAT implementation plan to the Parliament, which is the first. Prepare to vote on the first vote now. 36 for, 1 against, 1 abstention, enough entity majority. First conclusion adopted. The second proposal is yes, 2. The House of Representatives of the Council of Ministers requires an action plan for social programmes related to the application of the VAT Act, do I understand? I am very sorry, the action plan for the implementation of the social programmes related to the application of the VAT Act prepare for the vote. Vote now, you can vote and vote as anyone wants. 35 for, 2 against, no one abstention, enough entity majority. Accepted by the other one. And we have Mr Lagumdžija's third proposal, 3. da the predstavnički of Representatives requires the launch of a replacement of the Governing Board of the Direct Taxation Board in accordance with the law. That's what it says. Did I define it well? Prepare to vote. Vote now. 15 for, 16, wait. 15 for, there's no Nikola slowly. 15 for, 16 against, 5 abstentions, so no parliamentary majority. You'll get a list, you're right. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is how we ended the third item of the agenda. 27 Moving to the fourth item of the agenda is, Add.4. The proposed Law on the Public Radio Television System of BiH, first reading So, you are familiar with all the circumstances relating to this bill, I will remind you only that at the 55th session we adopted a report by the Commission on Transport and Communications and that we have given the Commission a new deadline of 20 days to draw up a new report, taking into account the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, international legal acts and languages and experiences of multiethnic countries, as well as the views of the Peace Implementation Council and the European Commission. Please keep an eye on him while he's in the O.R. and don't talk on his cell phone. Two MPs are currently talking on cell phones. Mr. Lagumdžija and Mr. Avdić. Please turn off your cell phones. Mr. Avdić, hello, Mr. Avdić, phone in the car. Turn off your phones, please. Idati take a break so you can make phone calls. Don't say that. So I repeat everything I am, you haven't all listened to me. The fourth item of the agenda, that's A.4. The proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Television System, first reading You are therefore familiar with the circumstances related to this bill. I would remind you that at the 55th session, therefore, we did not adopt the Commission Report on Transport and Communications at the 55th session and that we gave the Commission a new deadline of 20 days to draw up a new report, taking into account the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, on international legal acts on human rights and languages and on the situation of multiethnic countries, as well as on the views of the Peace Implementation Council and the European Commission. The Commission's new report was sent to you on 12 May by fax. You have seen that the Commission adopted the Four Amendments Bill. In the plenary phase, we have two groups of amendments, and these are the 3 amendments of the HDZ Parliament Club of Democrats who want to defend again in the plenary phase and 10 amendments that again want to be defended by MPs, Mr Ruža Sopta and Filip Andrić. You've got all the amendments. We are in the first reading of the proposal of the Law on the Public TV System. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Filip Andrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17945	I thank Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, here I want to speak of the principles of this law. There's already been a lot of talk as you said yourself. We discussed at one of the last sessions when we rejected the report and gave specific guidelines to the Commission to follow with the aim of correcting and passing the law in accordance with the fundamental principle of the Constitution on the equality of the people with European legislation, European practice. As I recall there was a recommendation and one of the guidelines and to conduct a public debate on this subject and here after all that we have a new report that I want to look back on the following way. 28 In its work, the Commission did not follow the guidelines set out, i.e. it did not comply with the law with the fundamental principle of equality of all three constituent peoples. The Law remains in principle that there are two entity services that also mean rights for two constituent nations to have public media in their own language, while in the third constituent Croatian people this right is not given. The law itself means by being unfair. And as such, I don't think it would be good if he went further into procedure, into further procedure. On the other hand, he did not respect Article 10. The European Convention on Human Rights, which gives every nation the right to have a public medium, i.e. having the right to inform in its own language, has the right, but there is no right, there is no way to exercise this right, specifically when it comes to the Croatian people and the treći principle that the Commission was obliged to follow, did not even consider it in the debate at all, and that is to take account of European practices of similar countries, multiethnic countries, so there are different examples from Belgium, Switzerland, Spain and I do not know where everything is not. But it didn't touch at all. It's been tried through some amendments that really have nothing to do with this, and that's it. that one of the organisational units of the corporation is located in Mostar which has nothing to do with neither the programme nor the right of the Croatian people in the media in their own language, because it means nothing. The corporation is more of a technical oratorization unit in the overall system and it has absolutely nothing to do with it. This way he simply wants to cloud the real truth. I must say that I am deeply disappointed with the behaviour of the media after this commission where they tried to show it first as if a compromise had been reached, that the interests of all stakeholders, or all three constituent nations, are satisfied, which absolutely does not stand. We are on the committee, following talks with representatives of the international community who are present and in discussions on the commission and before that we thought we would reach a solution from one of these two ways that we have offered through the amendments. The first one's been talking about him for a long time. The opinion is that full equality and full rights can be achieved for all three constituent nations through a joint BHT service at the level of a state that would be broadcast, its programme in three channels, in three official languages. Unfortunately, when we couldn't convince, despite a bunch of arguments, we couldn't convince even the representatives of the international community that we talked to, and not even our colleagues on the committee, I have to say that we didn't have the counterarguments that would satisfy our demands. However, we have made one concession aware of the fact that we are in a time-limit chat and that the 19th is an extremely important date for all of us, so we have offered some alternative solution that could serve as a transitional solution until the conditions for this is the only real solution that we have television at the state level and three channels in three official languages. We have offered to accept this proposal, which has been incorporated into the state-level law with the addition it has offered, offered by representatives of the international community, that the programme at BiH level should be regulated from three centres, but provided that in the same way rights are given at the entity level for all three constituent nations. In that sense, me and Mrs. Sopta have prepared the amendments and signed, which you now have on you. Unfortunately, there was no understanding on the commission for either, or for other amendments, which deeply disappointed me and I do not see, I really do not see a bright perspective of this law, especially if we want to finish this job by the 19th so that this would not be a stumbling block, i.e. a daunting circumstance on Bosnia and Herzegovina's path towards Europe, but unfortunately I must conclude that Bosnia and Herzegovina without, or with the disproved Croatian people in Europe, does not mean much to us. 29 Therefore, we have decided to persist, defend ourselves against this House of our Amendment, and I think we have a lot of arguments that I will certainly talk about later, if, when there is a debate in the second reading, the debate on amendments has tried to respond to our legitimate demands and arguments on counterarguments that allegedly something economically is not worth it, we need to see studies, financial, like this, such. We were at the stand and stayed that when it comes to rights, then we should not talk about the price. There's talk about the dynamics of realization. We can help a lot, but if it does not want to be incorporated into the law right, then it is indeed a discouraging message for a complete Croatian people and that is what we really cannot overcome if we want a law that 16 conditions from the Performance Study. I ask you for understanding and to try to find a way, if we find this, to please the Croatian people in the same way as we did for the other two constituent nations, to achieve full equality, I think we can reach the law in both readings and that this is the way that we can reach the law. On the contrary, voting, coercion will end where none of us would want to, and on the other hand, I do not want on behalf of the Club, neither on behalf of the people I represent nor on behalf of the amendment promoter to take responsibility for the fact that the deadlines will not be respected. We offer a solution, our goal is to get the law passed as soon as possible, unless it really wants to comply with these requirements, then you must take responsibility for the fate of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17946	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? I have a registered Mrs. Perkanović, if it wasn't a mistake. Marija, you didn't sign up, you didn't. Who else wants to talk? Mrs. Palavrić. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17947	I actually want to, the public works and correctness to correct the wrong quote of fellow Andrić. Namely, the right for Croatian people to have a special channel in Croatian, Mr Andrić draws from Article 10. European Conventions on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Let me remind you that the European Convention speaks of a citizen and individual rights, not of peoples and collective rights. Member of the 10th floor guarantees freedom of expression, and I would really like my colleague Andrić to read Article 10. The Convention and to see, I am telling the truth, and that a stand in which he seeks the reason for the Croatian people to feel threatened does not stand in Article 10, and I do not believe that anywhere stands, because the law treats all three constituent nations equally, and all three public broadcasters must comply with their laws with the Law on the Public TV System. So all three broadcasters as public broadcasters will broadcast laws in the languages of all three constituent nations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17948	Thank you. Mr. Andrić has Mrs. Sopta's answer. Of course, here's how it goes. Mrs. Sopta... Here you go. [[speaking jointly by the chairman and Filip Andric does not understand further discussion]] 30
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17949	Mrs. Palavrić is a lawyer, but I don't think she needs to be a lawyer to know how to read Article 10. European Conventions. After all, I've put it past the amendment to our club where we say we're looking for the Council of Ministers to ensure the conditions for full implementation of Article 10. European conventions and I don't know what's the opposite. He knows the European Convention and collective rights, not only individual, and there is a court practice, and here I don't think I meant to say it, but I was really moved by this comment when we discussed on the committee, then I had the opportunity to hear from the Prime Minister's Presidency that what we are calling for the European Convention on Human Rights is not standing because it is for national minorities. Given that there are no national minorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I quote if you do not believe there is a stenogram, then we have nothing to look at that convention and here is the sad fact that we as a people have to call on, or at our prime minister, that the only time we have our rights as a people to become a national minority, which is absolutely sad and I really, instead of Mr. Prime Minister pushing for all three constituent nations and every citizen in the country whose head he is fighting to have the same rights, the same mechanisms to exercise those rights, here he assures me that my path to achieving my collective rights is to become a national minority.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17950	Mrs. Sopta. Replic on. For the discussion, Mr. Beriz Belkić, followed by Mrs. Sopta's discussion. Here you go. Beriz Belkić, Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17951	I'm up for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17952	Of course the discussions are going now.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17953	So on behalf of the Party Club for BiH, I want to sort of determine myself with this debate on the principles and principles on which the law rests. To be honest, I am concerned and a little confused with the way we conduct the debate, the disproved peoples, etc., me to tell you the truth brings you some kind of discomfort and I wonder if I am involved in the dissuasion of any of the peoples, etc. It seems to me that we, not only in this case, but on many occasions push the peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina into isolation, self-insulation, to make malts of not some sanitary corridors among them. God forbid what they have in common to get mixed up, etc. It's like she's going to get some infectious disease. I am convinced that people in Bosnia and Herzegovina have a lot in common. I'll tell you that by watching federal television, I absolutely don't view it as something exclusive that belongs to the people that I belong to. Maybe I don't have those sensors. 31 So, I wanted to comment a little, with full respect and the right of all MPs to go with amendments, to make corrections, etc., but the way we conduct the debate is not to say such a nature that one can without pressure, or without feeling uncomfortable discussing everything as natural things etc. So somehow a man comes into this situation where he feels some fear of not making a mistake, keeping in mind these great words that are used here. We have, MPs of the Party for BiH, also have some to say dissatisfaction with some solutions before the amendments and before the commission, etc. and about the status of workers and about the ambiguity, about the programmes, etc., but respecting the need for this job to be completed, of course with all the benefits it brings and keeping in mind, and keeping in mind that we have always stated that we will support everything that is within European standards, therefore a principled one relationship, and that the President of the European delegation, i.e. the President of the European Commission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is in an interview that was announced this morning, so I am putting the reserves, but I hope that this is well transposed, argued that the law that came out of the Commission version within European standards, i.e. that it is acceptable for the European Commission, i.e. European Union. We'll back up, maybe he doesn't know, but here I am, I'm saying what kind of encourages me. We will support this law in the first reading, when it comes to principles and principles in the belief that we do not disprove anyone in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17954	Thank you. Mr. Martin Raguž, the vice president has a need for replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17955	Thank you. I didn't really mean to go into any more bile debates today. Trudić will try not to contribute to this, with this replica of Mr Belkić's exposure. I really don't think there was any basis to argue that these demands and this discussion of Mr. Andrić are on the trail of the requirements for isolation and some corridors of sanitary etc. And here I am, along the way, taking advantage of the opportunity to say something that we had an opportunity to see here a year ago, a year ago, and when we discussed some other issues, and these are issues that really concern the cultural and national identity of each of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also the people. And this question is an important question from that round of issues, and I think we need to have the hearing to show that we can develop this country in a way that both citizens and people feel that these needs can also protect and develop a cultural identity that will not be isolated but will network and integrate into a new whole, European Bosnia and Herzegovina. And here, Mr. Belkić, be assured that these amendments that I signed on that trail, and I'm really rejecting everyone here, possibly suggesting that it was segregation and isolationism and any kind of exclusivity that the HDZ Representatives Club is looking for. That's my responsibility. And you'll see that time and practice will show it. Unfortunately, there is still no strength to look into the truth here, but we are going through the final act of a model that he has experienced, I will say what my dictionary is experiencing is a collapse from question 32, from reform to reform we are closing our eyes and we want to go through that model one of Bosnia and Herzegovina that will actually mean one thing.... We don't want to be involved in this. We have legitimate requirements based on international standards and conventions, and we're not looking for anything beyond that context. No more or less, but no less or less. Niko one can dispute here the right to through the construction of a state public TV system and protection services, other than individual, collective rights that are suited to a European solution. And that's all gentlemen are about. But this is also about a single approach that is becoming more and more efficient every day, where two entities are actually defined and concreteized under the company's core Croatia's reforms. And if you want to support it, feel free to support it, it is your right both as a party and as a representative and I will never question it. This is your right and way of thinking about reforms and the future of the country. We don't think that way and let it be, it's legitimate differences. So let the voices prevail, but if the arguments can't. And that's legitimate law. But believe me, I don't think there was any reason for these demands to be experienced in such a way. Well, I'd say some part of the media, as well as the international community. Unfortunately, they're leaving. They're leaving. Mr. Petrič signed a decision on constitutionality, and in a year he came to Sarajevo and said that Dejton was "a crazy shirt", with no responsibility for what he was doing, and he was on occasion to change it. I don't want you to quote tomorrow, or any quotes, who are ordering us from their high-paying offices today, when they leave tomorrow to tell me, so they've changed their mind as well. Most of them changed their minds on Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here we have seen these days that a completely different interpretation has a state of mind in Bosnia and Herzegovina than when they were getting fat pay here. I speak even before they go and give a different opinion, because I know that in this country we need one television where we all feel, give our identity, express our identity, respect each other, create one mosaic of cultural differences, but in one mosaic that is unique to Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't see these demands against it. I can't see. Believe me, none of us would sign them. Here, I've had to react, and I won't report for no more use of time, and don't at least experience those demands as some kind of exclusiveism, big words, and loathe such demands. At least let us explain this to the public, and respond to your arguments. There you go. That's fair.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17956	Thank you. Mr. Belkić. This was now both a discussion and a replica. After that Mrs. Sopta, then Mr. Križanović, then Mr. Potočnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17957	So I must say, unfortunately, Mr. Raguž, that I must, too, in addition to my best wishes, also be replicating you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17958	Fair enough, Berize. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17959	Of course, replicate to you and concentrate on the following. So the Party for BiH and I as the President of the Club absolutely do not at any time bring or contribute to the concreteization of some abnormal states in this country including entities, etc., nor do we detest, I used this term not from argumentation or anyone else, I said it only brings me into an uneasy and kind of confusion and a sense of fear of responsibility to not do any serious harm to any of the people. So that's what I was talking about, Mr. Raguž. As for relations with the international community, evaluations, assessments, each of us experiences it in the way he thinks he should experience it and make sure that the BiH Party has its own relationship with all things, including this. So it's not some special replica, but just to sort of try to explain to you in some ways what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17960	Thank you, Mrs. Ruža Sopta. Let Mr. Jozo Križanović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17961	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, and I urge you to keep in mind the importance of this law. This law is one of the 16 conditions. It's not for no reason. This law has been going on for four years, and I say again, it's not for no reason. Many structures have participated in it and it is not without reason, because this law treats the rights of the peoples that are defined in the Constitution. So let me ask you to keep your heads quiet, think softly about it and discuss it that way. Also allow someone to surface, and someone to read this law in more detail because they experience it differently. I consider myself with my colleagues many times and thoroughly and deeply considered this law. I continue to believe that there was a need for a public debate that would give its answers and certainly make this law important, as we have recently recently corrected a law from this ministry with 100 amendments, only thanks to one public debate that I am holding and the ministry has been positively assessed and these amendments have been accepted. I'm saying that I also believe that, with this law, there should have been a previous analysis of the current situation, so we'd probably discuss all of this differently. I appreciate that they are colleagues and I also respect Mr. Belkić's opinion that the feeling of discomfort is being created. I believe and I think it's a positive shift in thinking about seeing what it is that we're warning you about. I'm surprised to say this by Mrs. Palavrić that collective rights are not defined by the Charter of Human Rights. I know about the human practice of the Court of Justice in Strasbourg, but the true God for the right of national minorities. I think that if we don't, God will come into this situation to seek our right in Strasbourg, we will be the only constitutional people who have a constitutional solution in the Constitution defined both constitutionality and language to come to defend our rights there. That would be sad. She would not have wished for it. She would also invite you not to think about what should be done by the executive authority. We are the legislative body that has the task, not the right but the obligation, the obligation to turn constitutional solutions into laws, and within that we must act. So I'm saying, Article 26 is, and if I were to read, I'd probably say so, so it says all fine that they're equally represented, the same must be taken care of by the rights of all the peoples. Yes, it is. Only members of the 26. have not defined their application through this law. And on the ground, so I'm saying that there should have been an analysis of the previous situation, 34 on the ground we have two televisions of entity that have completely become national television, whether we want it or not, and we have one common television for which tomorrow we would serve these very two entity televisions. What we are looking for and what we are looking for through our amendments, I am still saying that every citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina has the right to be informed, has the right to treat all its cultural wealth in the same way and is available to all citizens on the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina in his language. I'm still advocating that part, and I think we have three channels on national television as one good solution. But the answer to me right away is that it's not Dayton, that it's Dejton, that it defined it differently. That's what I respect and hold. That's why we went with the other part of the amendment. What I'm glad to see is that through the entire discussions from last year to here, no one has said that our amendments are intruding into anyone's right, that our amendments are seeking some exclusivity for one people, because we advocate, everything we advocate for one, we advocate for three peoples. What we are responsible for is that we should work from the beginning in that direction or that it is expensive. I believe that we, as a legislative body, must not respect any of these arguments. The fact is, and I have recently received this claim on television that even at a time when this party was not in power and when we had a chance to discuss that structure that had not discussed the law, that is, that the members of the commission that had been formed have retreated when, when it went in the wrong direction to resolve the political dimensions of this law. Yes, it is said, the current chairman of the Management Board said that 60% of the political solution that was initially defined in the law was changed, mainly to the harm of Hrvat. Of all things, from, from, our next solution went in this direction means when we said, when it was said that this is a Dayton-defined position of service, then we said, Dejton said that entity services must be, but he didn't say how many of them must be at entity levels, so we advocated about this for those who haven't participated in the debate so far to sum up, we advocated another service based in Mostar that would operate according to the same rules as the other two entity services, or by the rules as agreed. And that these three services are produced, or combined into the formation of a programme at national level, or service with their materials of this tv service at national level. Such a system is installed somewhere in Belgium. Through the materials that we've now received, when we've tried to get some materials that were under construction, so there's some kind of '99. That's exactly what he's treating and suggesting. Why did it stand down, I don't know, where it's just referred to a Belgian system of arrangement of the television system. Why is it that I've never had a chance, and I think neither of you, and I think the public will get an explanation for why it's gone away. If we want to, and it is our goodwill and desire to pass this law, we are looking for it and I think it is our right and not just our right but our obligation, we are asking that the law enters, the law is incorporated and the Croatian peoples. Whether we can quickly, or not, and make it happen to discuss it, the ultimate executive power will have more opportunities to worry and take care and inform us about it. We can give frames to those terms. That it is not unacceptable for the European Commission, too, is the fact that we held several talks with the representatives of the European Commission who at one point told us if that is what it is, and that is because we immediately after these talks and wrote these other amendments said that if it is not in conflict with the Dayton solutions, we will try to solve it that way. We've never been held responsible for it being contrary to date solutions, but apparently something happened on Saturday and Sunday, and we didn't get that support on Monday. So that after the formal session in the talks with Mr. Henfri, I will be 35, he also said that we should install rights into the law and that he will try if we can continue to talk. I said we stand for 24 hours whenever you want. There's been a solemn, solemn celebration of the day of victory over fascism here on the ground floor. Mr. Henfriz has left. We didn't get an answer to any of that. I believe that it is better for us to gather and think here, not with the head or the European Commission, not with the head or with the OHR, but with the head of the representatives of the people, or the representatives of this Parliament, and to think clearly about it before we say whether we will support the principles of this law, or whether the principles of this law should be corrected in the direction that all three constituent nations must be required, and I am also the advocate of solving the rights of national minorities in the perspective. For now, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17962	Thank you. Mr. Jozo Križanović. Let Mr. Mladina Potočnik prepare himself. After that, Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. And you have a replica of it. I apologize to Mr. Križanović. Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, then we'll do it in this order. He's got a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17963	A few reasons to call for a cold head debate. I really had the need to replicate in the current way of even discussing how, as if the rights of a constituent people in Bosnia and Herzegovina were completely disregarded, as if in any way in this law, as if one of the fundamental human rights, collective rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina were completely excluded, which is why this failure here in law calls, and in large and large words, even in one perhaps somewhat, I have to say an inappropriate way. I was a little surprised, we even call in some deadlines here sometimes. One out of 16 conditions, now it's a minute to 12 etc. Who will be responsible if the law fails and it really doesn't look like a cold head debate at all. As a person who has made good entry into this matter, I call as a member of this Parliament, as a member of the Party for BiH so far, the debaters of the Croatian people to show me which member or call on which member is left out of the public interest of the Croatian people. I didn't see it in this law. I understand perfectly the final objectives of the present engagement and almost all the representatives of the HDZ order on all the procedures and discussions that we have had over this law, but perhaps we are slightly different indeed, not slightly, in fact we are very different in your view of these three, expressing public or satisfying fundamental rights, expressing the public interest of the people of BiH as three SOURs. I kind of picture it like that, or like threeOURs in one SOUR, I mean three collective units. Because show me or prove to me that in anyone, no matter what language it is now, channels, etc. fundamental other human rights will not be compromised. If we are referring to the exclusion of language or channel in languages, I am now talking about anyone in whom we could work if all Bosnians and Herzegians, provided they speak that language is, then the question is, how do we open the story of perhaps satisfying others
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17964	This is already a discussion by Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. Come on. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17965	I really needed this in the context of a replica of one, because the way the debate is being held so far. And secondly, really, I am listening to you, and here is my colleague Raguž, with all due respect, really show which member he is. Maybe we have a delusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17966	Thank you. Look, we're in now. Answer to the replica Mr. Vinko Zorić. Here you go. The minister signed up for a discussion and he'll get his word right after you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17967	No matter how much I don't accept MPs being questioned, here's what I'm going to say to my colleague Azra, we have an article 26 that says what and how the tv service is going to do. So it will include, etc., but we don't have any criminal provisions on how we're going to punish responsible people if they don't. But we have that you will be punished by households if you don't pay the subscription. I find that suspicious. I won't talk any further. You think the Croatian language is numbers, and everything else is Bosnian on federal television. I don't hear anything out there but 25 that's in Croatian, if they mention 25, or they're going to say today it's 17. The 17th is in Croatian. There is more Serbian on Croatian television Zagreb than on federal television. I'm following each other as far as I can. BH TV can't watch. And while I'm at it, I've been saying something about memorials today. While one of the memorials is being broadcast live, others are muddying.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17968	Minister of Transport and Communications, Mr Branko Dokić. Here you go. Mr. Dokić, go ahead. Just wait for one. I apologize to you, so let's just let the counsel give a brief reply to the replica. So you'll be right back for the pay phone. You can do it for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17969	I didn't say for no reason that she needed an analysis prior to the adoption, or before the release of this law into the procedure, she needed an analysis of the existing situation. If my cultural rights were damaged, I would only give you two examples here. In one of the Catholic holidays of the Big Friday on federal television is given an ambience of Christmas. It's two opposite, two opposite holidays in Catholica. If it were by chance, if we had an editorial office under the office where someone in Croatia would be leading Croatian rights within this system, it would not have happened. Another example, on RS television, Ivan Pavao, is translated as Jovan Pavle. Here are examples and answers to your question. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17970	Thank you. Minister of Transport and Communications. Not Azra now, you'll get after the minister, but the man's behind the pay phone, it doesn't make sense. You'll get your word. Please, we can continue our replicas this way by morning. May I have your attention, please? Minister of Transport and Communications, Mr Branko Dokić has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17971	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will try in the shortest lines to point to what is new in this version of the law compared to the one you had previously considered. But just a few introductory notes. I would like to remind you that, at the request of the Ministry of Communications and Transport in the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Council of Europe appointed one expert group that evaluated the proposed draft laws, even in that first or second version, and indeed there were experts from the Council of Europe. One was from Great Britain, one from Slovenia and another from Belgium, which is also the Secretary General for Human Rights of the Council of Europe. I would like to remind you that their report on the 15 pages you could have had was based among other things on the following items, I quote, the drafts of the law are discussed from the perspective of their compliance with the European standards that arise from the European Declaration of Human Rights and the Law of the European Community. In this respect, it should be noted that Article 6. The EU Charter provides that the Union respects the fundamental rights guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights. In particular, it should be noted that these principles are incorporated in the recommendation 96/10 of the Council of Europe Ministers' Committee on the Guarantee and Independence of Public Radio Television Services, etc. and the first sentence of the general comment in their report states that the laws comply with the relevant European standards. So this includes guaranteeing the rights of all peoples and peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This does not mean that it would not meet these standards and a law that would respect the proposed amendments which, for political and economic reasons, we are not able to accept at this time. So we guarantee this law that all the rights of the constituent peoples within Bosnia and Herzegovina are fulfilled. With an embedded view of Article 26 which explicitly states that programs must be edited and broadcast in all three languages, and both letters are that, here I said on the commission the other day and theoretically guaranteed. Practically, this new amendment, or the new two amendments, which are new compared to those that you have considered so far, is that we are establishing a study in Mostar and we have firm for BHTV1, means for this television that covers the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina and we have strong guarantees from the European Commission that it will financially support, i.e. to help the technical sense of establishing that study. So here's the Council of Ministers believes that this amendment will establish a study in Mostar and another amendment in Article 29. which says that production from three studies in Sarajevo, Mostar and Banja Luka will go time-proportional arrangement of the programme, time-proportional in all genres. So this is really a practical step to provide guarantees and cultures and traditions and customs and language and letters on the state channel of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think it's a remarkable step and here's the Council of Ministers, the European Commission is behind this. 38 I thought that the Commission for Co-operation and Connections, as it is called, would come out with its report, but since they haven't already, here I can say that two amendments to the HDZ Assembly Club have been accepted. One amendment is that for a public corporation to be set up by this law as a fourth legal entity within the system, a public and not an internal competition for the selection of staff is to be called and another amendment has been accepted in the sense of eradicating that provision that practically entity services cannot broadcast the programme in another area. It would be very difficult and impossible to establish a Faraday cage at the borders between entities and that's a good thing it's been wiped out. I would like to point out that this law provides some additional opportunities that are also mentioned here. In Article 9, it explicitly says that the Council of Ministers can assess if there are economic and financial conditions for the establishment of additional TV channels, so such possibility is left if all necessary elements are satisfied to establish a new television channel. Also in Article 26, you have been left with the possibility of Members and other MPs who will be behind you to control here the full implementation of Article 26, which is therefore respect for the language of the letter through the analysis of the financial and editorial part of the implementation of the law, i.e. public service policies. That's it. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17972	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Azra Hadžiahmetovć, very briefly, please, replica. What do I do now? Take care of the Rules of Procedure properly. The replica only lasts a minute, please only have a minute to replicate.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17973	Thank you, is it just me or is it just me?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17974	At all, how painful for you, Azra, how painful it will be for you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17975	I propose to my colleague Zorić, since this is a member for a short time, that if it is criminal provisions in order to ensure the implementation or implementation of Article 26. to submit an amendment, or to submit an amendment to strengthen or ensure the application or implementation of Article 26. My kolegica Sopta, you are, I asked what is key, what is in the law that prevents the realization of iters and Croatian peoples? You've gone to the field of existing status and existing services. This is a law that brings the existing state into a whole new relationship. So, in a three-service system and with a public corporation as a brand-new institution. So, let's not get involved, or let's not argue about the existing state of affairs, because then we'll go a long way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17976	Thank you. Who do we have for replica? You will replicate Mrs. Sopta, to whom? Minister and Mr Jovanović, please. You've got a minute. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17977	So colleagues and colleagues don't get the wrong picture. Three centers of dust are in the eyes of the MPs. Three centers go to three places just like work space to say so. They have no legal subjectivity and therefore, the worker will produce the product as ordered by management, and the administration is organised in a different way. Therefore, we do not expect that this centre, it is not at all important where it is located, if it does not have its subjectivity in the work... subjectivity of the RS TV service or of the Federation's tv service, because if it is satisfactorily let's cut off entity television, so we will see if the other two peoples will be satisfied.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17978	Okay. Thank you very much. Jovanović, Mr Miloš Jovanović, short, minute replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17979	Here I am going to briefly not to remain in public unexplained, so all MPs have received a report from the Commission and everything you said, Mr Ministar, it means in the report, so you simply know it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17980	That was way shorter than a minute. Thank you. Eh, now we're going with the discussions. Mr. Jozo Križanović, let Mr. Mladen Potočnik be prepared, then Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija and Sead Avdić, and that is it. You don't have to go out, Mr. Avdić, I said yes, and that's in preparation, I apologize. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17981	Well, first of all, I would like to say that it is good that Minister Dokić gave some arguments on behalf of the promoter because I thought I would suggest it, in order to perhaps help us in this debate. First of all, I want to say that this is really about a very important and sensitive law, which supports the fact that we have been trying to deal with this problem and the adoption of this law for several years now. However, first of all, I want to draw attention to the fact that I am truly, truly committed to the freedom and rights of all citizens of BiH and every citizen of BiH throughout the BiH area, and I want to take account of the scale and structure of BiH to enable each citizen to cultivate its traditions and affirmations of cultural and other identity in this context. Now, I think we're now in one position when we weigh how in this particular case best to achieve it. I'm not sure this goal is achieved by special television service. To me, it's a much more important achievement, the achievement of the provisions of Article 26. How much in our activity, through programming and editorial policy, we will realize that we have this guarantee of the right and freedom of every citizen in the entire BiH area, within each of these TV services. That's the key question for me. I wonder if it is far more efficient for this model with this approach or is specific to the Croatian people now speaking, by opening a special TV service in Mostar that 40 would possibly at the expense of that be ignored by these priorities I was talking about, whether they would be damaged specifically by Hrvat in Banja Luka, in Bihac I don't know, Zvornik etc. That's a big question. Eh, now the question is if we open in Mostar, is that the final number of these services or does it need more? And let me finish, please. For example, I was disappointed that such a serious and serious issue was not a public debate. We've concluded here that we open up a public debate and I'm not saying that there are less important issues but let me also say on less important issues. You see, we're very often in a situation where, in the best of intentions, we want to achieve something and in the impossible to hear an expert opinion, to hear other experiences, to exchange opinions, to stay buried in our trenches, and then it seems to me that we don't contribute to a good solution. So, I was surprised to say that there was no serious debate about this, where we would, in a very toleranceal debate in one good intention to come to the law of solid and good, well, surely that form of public debate would have contributed greatly to that. And, here, finally, I want to say that it would be good to pass the law in one good consensus because as Minister Dokić says, I think it would be good, first of all, to be able to say, through one active relationship, in the field of programme editing, programing this part, to follow for a while, and then, of course, at some point, and if that is not realized, for some other reason go with a certain improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17982	I thank my colleague Križanović. Rieć has Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17983	Mr. Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, legally speaking, this law, or proposal that we have today, has so much balanced both the location and time use of all the three languages that are in BiH. I'm going to vote for this law because I don't understand why there's such a difference between languages that have far more likeness than diversity. I understand this as another attempt to separate people in BiH and this is not in the interest of either the Croatian, Serbian or Bosniak or any other BiH man. And the most democratic way, that is, is that each one speaks his own language, writes in his own letter, and the other one understands Bog and so I propose, let's, let's end this law and take another step forward for both better BiH and the European way.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17984	Thank you. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija has his word. Let's get ready Mr. Sead, actually he's already prepared, Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17985	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the first and second vice-president, so my colleague Potočnik welcomed the vice-president, so I wanted to correct him. In any case, I agree with all those who spoke of the importance of this law. And it's good that we finally have it, I mean commendation deserves, and the minister who gave us really comments that some things further clarified as much as anyone agreed with them or not, but at least gives us 41 possibilities that still with a great degree of understanding we know what we are and what we are not, and that we know that what we are or we are not, is at least based on the same knowledge of what we are about. The Commission report that was given here, in a certain way, in my humble opinion, tried to solve some of the things that are deeply opposed within the ruling coalition and I agree with Mrs Sopta, in a certain way, which says that this is still a dusting in the eyes, given what the HDZ Representatives Club actually wanted. That's what I'm saying because it's not a problem to throw dust in the eyes, a man takes off his eyes and keeps on working, the problem is only if it's a lot of expensive dust, which we all pay very dearly. I think a solution has been made here that unnecessarily collects some things, and we are well aware of the fact that even the EU is to calm us down in some way promise that something additional will help us buy who we are, that is, to calm us down. So if they already have the willingness to help you, they'd better help you in some other way than in such a expensive way that they won't solve what you were actually against. To be very clear, I'm against what you wanted and against what you got, because it's unnecessary. You wanted one thing against which I am, you got something that now is not what you're looking for, and now we see the garden expensive and unnecessary. So that's a little bit of a problem when we go into one, this law should be, among other things, rational and that it can be done. Oh, we'll pay for it, my dear Moranjkić, no one else will pay for it. The EU won't pay you in the end either. We'll pay again when they give it to us for nothing. Namely, I also think that this amendment number and a great improvement in relation to the first text and I must admit, I am not a man who believed much in Mr. Jović's observations, but this time the man was right, I am obliged to say it. He has just drawn attention to the fact that the existing law makes one illogicalness to virtually limit the frequency of entity public services to entities. And it was stupid and this amendment number and it's really good.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17986	Whose amendment was it?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17987	The amendment is your Mr. Raguž and I mean, I congratulate you on this amendment. So that's how you improved it. It's really completely pointless. Why is it especially pointless? Because because of the decision on constitutionality, no matter what anyone thinks of it objectively and public service based in Banja Luka and public service based in Sarajevo should be the public service of all peoples and all citizens of the whole country, and thus also be obtained by these services throughout the country. And welcome again, please. And I welcome that this amendment has been adopted. Amendment II and Amendment III are, in a certain way, that dust is quite expensive. What do I mean? If we knew you were going to win this compromise, then we would also be acting in this direction. Namely, we would in that case and now we have one small problem is whether here is what Amendment II says corporations have organisational units in Sarajevo, Banja Luka and Mostar. We're asking why only in those three cities? Why isn't it in Tuzla, too, not to say why it isn't and where the headquarters of the police administration tomorrow are these regional five, nine plus one, or thirteen, or who knows how many. So, I think the law could regulate that the corporation really has organisational units in Sarajevo, Banja Luka and Mostar, and in accordance with Article 9 which the minister called on was 42 li, who is a good member, which allows the Council of Ministers to tomorrow in some way when there are funds, logic, etc. to open up some new orgasm unit, etc. So it could have been the same principle, I'd be inclined if we knew that you were going in this direction would not then suggest that it be an organisational unit and in Tuzla for starters. Or at least there's a minister where your centres and administrations of indirect taxation are that you can do this more easily, this training from a member of the VAT that we just had, which you're a little late. So that's why we think this article Amendment number II is practically something. Amendment number III here also says that the production of all BH service genres will be equally distributed between these organisational units. They are technically not equipped for equality, with the fact that you have a public service obligation that within two years they will earn up to 40% of their own production to keep the license, which means they will have a little problem with this, please. _______(?) People can produce. I can, so yes. Now the question is what does it mean equally if it's distributed between three organisational units. Is it rational to say each of them makes a equally humorous series, a equally musical number of productions and so on. So there would kind of be the law here anyway, instead of functionally opening up the possibility of importing, he's objectively now sharing this. And Mr. Chairman, for this, to be very clear, since these are principles, we are deeply against it. Why are we against the HDZ proposal? We're against ethnic ghettoisation of public services. Against the ethnic division of public services. We are for inclusive public services and we particularly welcome Article 26 of point 4 and 5 which speaks about it and I hope that public services and public service of the RTV RS and the Federation will indeed be a service that will be organised according to these principles, so they will respect the rights of constituent peoples and others and will be editorially equal in three official languages and two letters, which is not the case now. I mean, objectively, now is not the case. And in that, well, I don't know, maybe you don't know the Latin, so everything seems to be even. I mean, I don't know, but it's possible that we might have those eyeglasses, those kids who refuse to watch what you know about 3D affirmation, so their tongue's fessing up. In any case, Mr. Chairman, if he really intends to go further on the principle of channel division on ethnic channels, then, in that case, he should open up again, return to that public debate that is missing, and that is to see if the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina would then be entitled to their own channel. And Mr. Zorić, since your partner is hungry for coalition...
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17989	And we have two replicas, Mr. Zorić, so Mrs. Sopta. One minute, please. Here are your replicas. Get Sead Avdić ready. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17990	I would first ask the College to protect us from mockery. So Mr Lagumdžija mocked HDZ representatives in his debate. And secondly, when Mr. Lagumdžija discusses, then it would be good if he didn't come to a contradiction. He would support Amendment I.. zašto? So if three services were provided for by the bill and were a line between two services, federal and RS services, and they are not national, so it's cheaper. Why would they make double transmitters? They're all for consistency all over the place. So there's one next to the line, one after the line. They are neither in any language nor nationally colored anything. Then why would this amendment be good? Why would he be good? And you, Mr. Lagumdžija, say that you knew that Mostar would pass, you would search, etc. What does that mean, you'd be looking for? Is that according to your policy that you can't share anything with three, but with two you can? I'm sorry that Mr. Lagumdžija confirms what he doesn't know his name and last name, one writer said that Hrvat can look for his television channel when gays don't ask for it. Maybe there are more gays in Bosnia and Herzegovina than Hrvat. That's past the beatings in Bosnia and Herzegovina. No media has condemned it, and Lagumdžija is mocking us here, and he says why shouldn't some others ask when the Hrvat are looking for it. I wonder why the Hrvat wouldn't ask when the Srbin and Bošnjak have it. Come on, answer me that question. Why don't the Hrvat look for it when the Srbin and Bošnjak have it? If they don't, let's just have one service. If they don't, let's just have one, if that television RS is equal for all nations, is federal for all nations equal, so why do we need three televisions? We're a poor country. Let's have one television. Well, they don't agree, they say Srbin. I wouldn't agree if I were them. And I don't agree to be that way. I want three, but if we have three, why isn't one in Croatian. It is not the Croatian language that will bite anyone, nor is it Serbian, nor is it Bosnian. It's not. Why, if you listen to something in Serbian, you will wind a Serbian channel if you listen to Bosnian, if Croatian, Croatian. Well, we'll watch what we're looking at. But today I have no chance of watching BiH TV. It's lucky there's no Mr. Duraković here to tell me right now that I don't like Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I can't look at her. I'm not very sorry about that. I wish I couldn't watch last night for 60 minutes. We'd have one less representative question. I'd be quieter to sleep better, etc. So don't say once that if the Hrvat ask it to be a ghettoisation, and we already have a ghettoisation in two parts. And here's the law. He said he'd cross the line there. I don't believe he will. There are no criminal provisions. My colleague, I'm sorry, I didn't want to replicate my colleague Azra, she invited me to write the amendment. What am I going to write the amendment? Let her write an amendment if that's not good. If she agrees with me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17991	Okay. All right. Just to finish Mrs. Sopta, you'll get the word, Mr. Lagumdžija. Please, I beg you, these are replicas now. A minute is a replica. Don't let us go any further. I've now allowed Mr. Zorić. He didn't answer for a word. Please be brief. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17992	Could be a correction, or a replica. Correction compromises us through those amendments no one has offered, nor have we asked for them. The amendments were submitted by Mr Huskić and amendments were adopted at his request. So wrongly, you think we've been compromised. Secondly, if your discussion came from a nation less numerous than us, I would reconsider my position and ask my colleagues to reconsider their position. You're firmly buried in a position to have your own television and now you're positions is easy to discuss that way. To conduct both through discussions and through talks that I had opportunities to make with people to speak Serbian-Croatian in the Bosnia and Herzegovina area. Now how do we give him a name? We'll see about that. This was an opportunity for colleagues from the commission, even from our Mr. Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers who said he wanted a channel, a channel where he heard all three languages and did not want his child to change to find a channel in a language. And I can't ask my own, and I can't ask the channel for my child to find a Croatian language in the remote control. That's the sad fact for which you have no hearing. Secondly, I think if you take a look at the position of the Croatian people in the Federation, then you will understand why we are looking for a channel for the Croatian people. As much as it has been regulated legally for both Republika Srpska and at the level of the Federation, and this gives a positive opinion to that Europe, i.e. that's the letter on the paper. That's why I said we needed a previous analysis of the current situation. That is why I believe that you have no right to speak like that because Bosnia and Herzegovina has received the greatest advocate among Hrvat for the reasons that its rights within the Federation are very difficult, or in no way realising.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17993	Thank you, Mrs. Sopta. Mr. Lagumdžija, reply to the replica, also very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17994	It's on two lines.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17995	Yes, yes, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17996	Well, you see, it's perfectly clear to me that Mr. Zorić is not clear what I've been saying. But the possibility that I can explain to him is really coming out of the time frame that we have at our disposal, so there's no need to try. In fact, a member of the 9th and illogicality that has been changed here, which speaks, is a pardon member of the 10th that speaks of, which has been modified, which I have praised, is first good because it is logical, and the second one is good because it is technically inconclusive that it has not been changed, or it would be very expensive. The application of Article 9 before it was amended, these amendments meant that I had no ability in Sarajevo to see the signal of the RTV RS, which is practically difficult because simply everything and that I would not waste that signal by ageing, the technique to disable it is much more expensive, more expensive than the production of that signal. So I mean, it's simply an inapplicable article on its 10th until it's been changed like this. That would mean that in Dobrinja up to one street you can see TV RS and the other you can't see 45 over here versus Federal TV. So completely stupid and inapplicable, so this change actually made it possible for you to actually have a law that is applicable. And let go now,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17997	...very logical arguments for that amendment, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17998	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u17999	It's our amendment,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18000	I keep praising him, but Zorić is not clear at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18001	Please, Mr. Lagumdžija, be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18002	And as far as equality is concerned. I really think and repeat here, Article 26 of Article 4 says that service programs must respect the rights of constituent peoples and others, they will be equally edited in three official languages and two letters. And Article 5.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18003	Mr. Zorić,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18004	It says that the production of its own programme and public broadcasters will provide directly represented... content that corresponds to the heritage of all three peoples and adequate representation of others. So, I fully agree with you that the public services we now have to a lesser or larger extent do not satisfy this, but we need to legally oblige them to do exactly this kind of...public service function.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18005	Okay,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18006	In other words, and finally, I don't really think that in this country there should be a Serbian channel, Croatian and Bosniak in its own language and in its content only for Srbin, only for Hrvat, only for Bošnjak. Well, that's how you created it, and then you're surprised someone's against it. And I repeat, to the citizens of this country, there is no need to praise you at all,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18007	This thing doesn't make sense, I mean.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18008	Because Mr. Zorić will think I'm insulting him or maybe he should, 46
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18009	Please, I'm begging you, so I'm calling you, I mean, we all know, and here's just a question of how much of this is going to take part in the debate. At first, he must have some rules. And this now comes down to this, not to discussion, but to replicas and can't get rid of the replica for half an hour, so that a man comes to discuss. Please, but please very briefly. Mrs. Ruža Sopta, this is the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18010	I'm undermining again, we're shivering to stick to our task. We're a legislative body and we stick to it. Just when this topic turns to application, to finding some opportunities there, then we step away from that, the right of the Croatian people, of the Serbian and Bosniak people, is that, in the language, embedded in the Constitution. We have no right to ignore it. As such, we need to get it into laws. I don't see any guarantees, if you can find a way to apply Article 26, give me the amendments. I couldn't construct them to be applied, so I'm looking for the way I think I can look for the right.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18011	Thank you, Mrs. Sopta. Mr. Sead Avdić, discussion, please. And we're closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18012	I think this ending is. simple key to the solution. Here's the answer to the controversy this law has been hiding. Namely, the suspicion of the possibility of implementing Article 26 of this Law motivates, I have a sense of the HDZ Club for a different attitude and persistent insistence on national channels, etc. I think it's extremely necessary and important when it comes to cultural, public identity, where language is fundamentally human law and it's not at all controversial, it needs to be supported, absolutely. At the same time, a political identity that simply binds and thinks and simply develops this patriotism towards the BiH state should also be discussed. So these two identities have to be balanced. It can't be the imbalance that it is today, really people, which means civil and national isn't the opposite of each other, and it just needs to be reconciled to one another. I think it's also important in our consciousness to accept this assessment. The state of BiH is the state of both the citizens and the peoples, i.e. the countries of the people and the citizens. This is not opposed to one another, nor should it be opposed. Number one. Under two, political issues cannot be resolved by technical solutions. Unfortunately, this law did it. Just ask yourself, is it possible to implement this law with amendments II and V? Ask yourselves. Is it possible to implement this law at all? Articles 2 and 3 of the amendments objectively made the law worse than we had. Did he improve the law by amendments II and III? No, it's not. I assure you. It's not an accident, is it, Professor Dokić, the public TV system? The public TV system, it's being torn apart in this way, severely disrupting itself. The unity of that system, the equities of that system, and it won't work, not people. How do you plan to synchronize the production program, broadcast the program into three centers. Isn't that an association for BiH's transnational division. Doesn't that beat a simple man's head with a lady's head and warn him, hey guys, what is it? So this is what we're asking, why isn't there... why is 47 really, which is just Mostar, Banja Luka and Sarajevo? I apologize, so Mostar is not an exclusive Croatian town. I apologize for speaking affirmatively in this context. Which means, whoever was making Amendments II and III, I apologize, whoever did it absolutely violated, seriously violated the uniqueness, efficiency and simply did not matter, it doesn't matter who did it, so I think these two amendments are violating this unique system of BiH's TV system, and I doubt they'll be able to implement themselves in this way. Under four. The trap, conditioned that the European community will finance a centre in Mostar, really can solve a political issue. I'm having an aferiti with someone who thought that way. We will give the money, so we will calm down the HDZ Club and simply create a centre in Mostar as it is in Sarajevo and solve the problem simply of these amendments and HDZ demands. It won't work that way. It can't mean it simply can't be solved in such a way. Guys, it can't be solved. Which means, once again, Amendments II and III seriously disrupt the unity of the system, disrupt efficiency, gather the system, and I doubt that the technology of the work that is being split into this kind of thing will be able to split in a rough way, one unique technological unit will provide a synchronised production and broadcast of programs into three centres. It's clear. And I ask the Commission to think carefully, take a break and withdraw its amendments II and III. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18013	Thank you. We only have a few more, please, more brief interventions from Mr. Raguž. You signed up now, Mr. Zorić. Why? For,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18014	Okay, I'm a replica, he can follow me. I think, Mr. Avdić, if it wasn't a dispute, we've talked about this more than once, so individual and collective balance and attitude towards the state. And here's to not saying it again. But you've now brought into discussion in the back, completely unargumented and uh, unsupported facts. Who said that here and where it says that this production centre in Mostar is Croatian. Where does that say? Why do you even have the right to say that? You said it. I'll look for a stenogram. I'll ask for a stenogram for the next session. I'm looking for a stenogram. Here, not to comment further, I'm looking for a stenogram. So don't say that. Our demands went to the whole of BiH-level systems and services as the first amendments. In one real time. In the end, Minister Dokić did not rule it out as a possibility to resolve it in the same way, nor disputed it, but said these solutions are by experts and standards so that they can meet. That's, that's how I understood that position. So, don't now that this requirement that's being realized through the Mostar center means duality on a national basis. In the end, we did not satisfy ourselves in terms of these legitimate rights by doing so, but went to other amendments. And secondly, why would it ultimately break down technologically, if there was a program being produced there? It's a contribution to television and it's not breaking. Well, I guess there's some metals down there, and the biggest export is down there. And that's what the state benefits most from. So why can't the program be produced and it doesn't mean breaking the economy, it means strengthening the economy. It's a kind of modern, decentralisation rather than breaking the system. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18015	Sead Avdić, incorrect quote, short.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18016	I was quite precise and I just said that Mostar is not just a Croatian town. I wasn't even talking center. No, I wasn't even talking about the Croatian centre in Mostar. That's what I said. Two, I think, from the point of view of labour technology, employees (?) TV BiH last night was a whole union, meaning technique and everything else that makes that system come out with its statement to support my arguments. And under three, of course, Mostar has its own center, the Information Technical Centre and the link with, conditionally speaking, the framework of central television, state television, so they'll always have it. And they're going to produce a program, etc. It's not a dispute. That's not at all controversial.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18017	Thank you. We've got another one registered for discussion. That's Mr. Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18018	I'm this one, I'll be very short. The representatives of the HDZ or similar amendments are also representatives of the Croatian People's Club, in that home, they are not looking for anything exclusive. We ask that we have our own medium, electronic medium in Croatian. If anyone thinks that Hrvat will be satisfied that they have a dead language in BiH, then the language will have Latin language status and some other languages that will not be used whether, in the media or in schools. It was meant to be like that in schools. We will never agree to this, and I certainly will not raise my hand for this law unless you accept a solution that will satisfy all three peoples in BiH. I'm not talking about exclusivity. What Honorable counterpart Adić said here, Mostar is not an exclusive Croatian town. I also claim that it is not, it is a beautiful city multiethnic that has the majority of whether, Croatia is alive but someone has imposed the Election Law, so that Hrvat cannot rule in that city. When his colleague Avdić said that, he probably thought it meant that these two were exclusively someone's, so why should Mostar be Croatian, you and other cities. That's how I understood it. I don't think the problem is that we have or don't have our own channel, but the problem is that the representatives of the other two people here in this House think their rights will be compromised. I don't think so, especially if you consider this variant b well). So, the amendments submitted only by Mr. Andrić and Mrs. Sopta, where they are said to have two services within the entity, so the broadcaster. One in Bosnian, one in Croatian. There's talk here about expensiveness all the time. Whenever HDZ representatives or representatives of the Croatian people submitted some amendment, so he once passed on boards, it was always expensive. Let's think of NOS, and some other examples. Then it's said that NOS is just, should be here, starting work tomorrow. It hasn't been established yet. So, we're easy. And we have here a letter from Herzegovic TV, which is public television, that, with the consent of its founders, it will be accepted by the latter, without additional financial resources, that it will be a public broadcaster in 49 areas of the Federation in Croatian and that this one, which already is, will be in Bosnian and that we will all be satisfied. We have here with Mr. Andrić and Mrs. Sopta and the memo, but I think that this, that at this point we should take a break, that the College or the Commission should agree on how to proceed, I don't think it's good to accept this law, reject the amendment, or God Bog we go into another trap, that we have to wait for another procedure, so the next procedure to talk about the same law again. Why would I do that? So I'm saying, because now we're talking about principles, so we have this, one such requirement, where we would have television in Croatian, it's not exclusively Croatian television that only Hrvat would watch, but I think you would watch it all three peoples because it would be the best quality. There's one more thing I want to say here. If I were Filip, don't bother the minister, I want him to hear this. If I were a minister, and if any European commission were this or that, asked me to pass this law, any law, to the detriment of one of the constituent people, I would resign. I would certainly resign, I would never do such damage to the Bosniak or Serb people with such a law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18019	Thank you very much. I've got another one on file. I'm asking him to be brief. Sir, what is it now? Mr. Huskić's discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18020	Thank you. I'm going to make sure I'm really short because I'm both a member of the Commission, and I'm kind of the one, conditionalally, and the one responsible for this debate. I signed two amendments that my colleague mentioned, but I didn't think I was an idea maker, but I accept them. I did it by handling two principles. As a man and as an MP and as a member of the Commission. First, it was to pass a law within the time limit that was ptorebane and second, the second principle that I was in charge, that no constituent people or this one, any individual, would be damaged in any way, and I think that we have made one balance such that no nation, by my deep conviction, is depriving, for no right, because the law gives no one else something that anyone else has. The question that's being asked here, the achievement of language equality, I don't think that's the essential question, because there have been some discussions I wouldn't mention here, which have given me the right to conclude what I've concluded. So, here, how can Mr Zorić evaluate that the channel in Croatian would be the best quality? So it's not just a matter of language, then it's the creation of three national channels. Three national channels lead to the creation of three truths in BiH, lead to whether in the division of society I am personally and I mean both colleagues and parties and most MPs, against such an approach. I agree there's a problem with entity television, that's obvious. And I agree it needs to be solved. But that's not an obstacle to the adoption of this law. And I suggest we adopt it, because I don't think there's anything more we can do at this point, we can just not pass the law, and then we have damage. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18021	Thank you very much. I would ask Mrs. Palavrić, she asked for a word for a replica, to give up the replica, to move on. Here's the conclusion of the debate, so we can close the debate. Nothing with that replica, you have a word, a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18022	I'm asking you not to beg for a replica in the future, just because we're from the same Parliament club. So, if I signed up for the replica,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18023	It has nothing to do with the club. It has to do with the debate. We need to
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18024	I'm entitled to a replica, and I'm only running out of time from now on.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18025	Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18026	So, I replicate to Mr Zorić in the sense that he said that someone by the electoral law imposed that Hrvat in Mostar even though they are the most numerous do not rule. In this country no nation can rule alone, regardless of its numbers, and should not rule. Secondly, when it comes to the law that is ahead of us, it is my impression that the HDZ Club insists on a separate channel on which the programme will only be broadcast in Croatian so that people, citizens, people, Croatian people, could not or should not listen to Serbian, Bosnian language and would not have to know Cyrillic, so that we do not understand each other and at the same time call on Switzerland. And Švricarska learns another language in every canton next to a language that has to learn by birth, to understand one another. So that's the only thing I'm going to do after article 26 after this whole debate, which really requires a separate channel for the Croatian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18027	Replication response, Mr. Vinko Zorić, come in, one minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18028	Like this, I didn't ask for anything, what I didn't say, to be for all three peoples. Secondly, I did say that the Hrvat are not allowed to rule in Mostar. Let's say it's in the Grums. But this is because a special law has been imposed on Mostar and elections are being conducted under the BiH Election Law in the Gruds. And that's true and nothing else is true. What my colleague Sead said in Switzerland, I agree to be in us like in Switzerland. Here I sign right away to be there in the morning, and this, when we got along so well, this is also Mr. Potokčnik and Seadi, what was the third language being introduced 10 years ago? 51 When do we understand each other so well? What did someone find another name for that language that everyone understood, when there were two names for that language?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18029	All right, all right. Please, nice. I beg the MPs, I beg you, you will not achieve anything by having the need to publicly, Mrs. Sopta, you have spoken several times so far. I really was, so it really doesn't make sense. Here, look, is there another replica? Mr. Potočnik, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18030	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues and Mr. Vinko, frankly, you and I speak the Bosnian-Serbian-Croatian language here. I'm saying, you don't have to, but I'm really talking, and I'm not looking for the difference between one, the other and the third. I agree, it may not have been necessary to introduce Bosnian as a new one, but wait, be honest and say that you really do not speak pure Croatian or pure Bosnian or pure Serbian.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18031	Please pay attention to the MPs, please. This really doesn't make any sense. This discussion has turned into a permanent replica. You have the right to do that, but I want you to do a little bill, it's already been told. Well, is there a need for everything to happen at a given moment and it says right away? I ask you to take care of the fact that someone has to run this session and that it must be managed by this session. We can work as hard as you want. No problem at all, but take care of this. What do you want? Wait, let me know what to give the man.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18032	So I want to make a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18033	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18034	I call upon all members of the HDZ Club to no longer speak on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18035	Mrs. Sopta, you've been looking for, you're drying out the president. All right. You're listening to the president, okay. For a replica of who else answered? Mr. Huskić, for a moment, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18036	Regarding the Bosnian language, it was a language that existed, so it was administratively abolished, and as far as I know, somewhere in Herzegovina half a year ago, a tablet was found written in Bosnian as a special letter. Thank you. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18037	Anyone else want to, please, thank you. Anyone else want to talk? I'm closing the debate. Please, nice. Please, MPs, the debate is closed. Stand by, please, the debate is closed. Prepare to vote on the law in the first reading. Prepare to vote, prepare to vote, we know what we're voting on. We are voting on the law with the Commission's Report, i.e. we are voting on the law in first reading, first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 27 for, 9 against, 1 abstention, enough entity majority. I find that we have adopted this law, the Law on the Public Television System of BiH in the first reading. I suggest we make a point, we go to another reading today. Please, business, please. Mr. Lagumdžija, here's your business.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18038	...in which we were not unique, in which I asked for the removal of the Management Board for indirect taxation, I have not yet received the listing you promised me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18039	Please, the services to be provided to Mr. Lagumdžija. I ask the MPs to prepare themselves, to declare whether you are here today to discuss another reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I suggest as chairman, yes, I said clearly. Please, I don't know. Let me do my job. 26 for, 9 against, 2 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. We decided to discuss the law in the second reading. I'm opening a debate on the law in the second reading. Who wants to talk? If no one answers their question, I'll conclude the discussion of the Law in the second reading. We're moving on to an amendment statement. Give me the amendments, please. So, like this, we have, first of all, three amendments submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club - the democracies. On the basis of Rule 94 of Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Representative, amendments which wish to defend them again at the plenary stage. 53 We declare the amendment and this club, so the Club of Representatives of HDZ Democrats to this law. Prepare to vote, Amendment I. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 7 for, 26 against, 3 abstentions. The amendment did not receive parliamentary support. Moving to Amendment II. Prepare to vote. Vote, same club, Mr. Lagumdžija, now. Six for, 29 against, three abstentions. Neither did this amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club of Democratics, Amendment II did not receive parliamentary support. And, we move on to a statement on Amendment III of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ Democrats. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Five for, 27 against, six abstentions. This amendment has not received parliamentary support either. Give me the next group of amendments. All right, all right, come on. Please, dear colleagues and colleagues, are subject to the amendments to the proposal for a Law on the Public TV System of BiH, renewed on the basis of Rule 94 of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, amendments to the Proposal for a Law on the Public TV System of BiH that want to defend themselves again at the plenary stage, and these are amendments signed by Mr Filip Andrić and Ruža Sopta. There are 10 amendments here. Prepare to plead. We're voting on Amendment I.. dakle now we know, we have 10 amendments, I'm not going to repeat whose they are. We'll vote from 1 to 10, they know who they are. Please, I have 10 renewed amendments, if anything is adopted, then you know how to vote. We're moving on to a statement on Amendment I.. kad we get to Amendment VI, then you'll explain what this is about. Amendment I. Prepare to vote on Amendment I. Vote now. Five for, 26 against, seven abstentions. I find that amendment I is not acceptable. amandman II. Prepare to plead. Vote now. 5 for, 27 against, 5 abstentions. This amendment has not received parliamentary support either. 54 amandman III. Prepare to vote on Amendment III. Vote now. Five for, 27 against, six abstentions. The amendment didn't receive support. Prepare to declare Amendment IV, vote now. Five for, 28 against, five abstentions. amandman IV did not receive support. amandman v. Prepare for a declaration for Amendment V. Vote now. Five for, 27 against, six abstentions. amandman v, no support. Amendment VI.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18040	We do not declare that amendment because it has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18041	Is there an amendment VI to the Commission's report, just to level down a little bit?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18042	In Article 10(4), point (b) is replaced by the
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18043	In Article 10(4)a, right? Behind the wording of the RTV service, the point of asintagma is placed, under quotes, which will limit the transfer of each entity service in the area of the appropriate entity, in accordance with Article 9 of this Act, the closed sign of the quote, is deleted. This amendment in the same text, the secretary here has leveled with me, has been accepted by the Commission, so there is no need to make a statement about it. Prepare to make a statement on Amendment No. VII. Prepare to declare Amendment No VII. Vote now. Five for, 26 against, seven abstentions. Amendment VII is not accepted. Prepare to declare Amendment VIII. Vote now. Five for, 27 against, six abstentions. This amendment has not been supported. 55 amandman IX.. Prepare to declare Amendment IX. Vote now. Five for, 26 against, five abstentions. The IX amendment did not receive support. So, we have Amendment X. Prepare to make a statement on Amendment X. Vote now. Six for 27 against, five abstentions. This amendment has not been supported. We're moving on to a statement on the law as a whole. So, the Law with the Commission's Report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 26 for, 9 against, 3 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives passed the Law on the Public Television System of BiH. And this text will be forwarded to the House of Peoples for adoption. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am now taking a break for lunch. It lasts 40 minutes. We're continuing 20 to 3. We're moving to the fifth item of the agenda. [[PAUZA]] Ad.5. The draft law on borrowing, debt and guarantees of BiH, first reading and here we have received a new report from the committee responsible, after giving the Commission new deadlines and new guidelines for making up a new report at the 54th session. The Commission report was sent to you on 12 May through telefax. As you saw in the report, the Commission adopted two amendments. Momčilo Novaković submitted six amendments that he wants to defend in the confiscation phase. I am opening a debate on the Law on Borrowing, Debt and Guarantees of BiH, in the first reading. Who wants to talk? If no one answers their question, I'll conclude the debate on the law in the first reading. We're moving on to a plea. Prepare to vote. The Law on Indemnity,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18044	...the chairman and I don't have any MPs present in the order of the Croatian people, so I don't think, no one has, no one is present. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18045	Yeah, uh, that's right. As far as I can get to the O.R., look, let the clubs know to come inside, but we're, I've announced a 20 to 3 session extension, it's 3 o'clock, there are no MPs, this is the House of Representatives, please inform the clubs. We move on to a statement on the law in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 21 for, 3 against, no abstentions, enough entity majority. We passed the law in our first reading. I suggest we make a point, go with the law and decide the law in the second reading. So, just for the sake of MPs, Mrs Sopta and Mrs Perkanović, we have adopted the Law on Borrowing, Debt and Guarantees of BiH in the first reading and are now pleading whether we will go to the second reading under the law. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 21 for 5 against, no abstentions, no majority from Republika Srpska. The College reached agreement and I realize that the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has decided that the Law on Borrowing, Debt and Guarantees of BiH is also being discussed in a second reading. I'm opening a debate on the law in the second reading. Who wants to talk? Mr. Momčilo Novaković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18046	First of all, I must express my regret that the time given in the procedure to try to bring this proposal into line with the Republika Srpska government in the section relating to objections to this law has not been used. According to the information I have, due to lack of will, above all to the Council of Ministers. I'm sorry I wasn't at first reading, since this law obviously doesn't have a constitutional basis and since the principles of this law are contrary to the Constitution. But, okay. The amendments I have made seem to me the least that could have been filed on this bill. I think the solution, that the solutions offered to change this law, are not in great contrast or are not at all contrary to the spirit of this law, but it is obvious that the Proposer has the necessary majority and did not need to respect such solutions. Unfortunately, this will be another law that will be imposed in the method of implementation by one part of this country. So not imposed on the method of adoption, but on the method of implementation. I am, of course, staying with the amendments I have offered and asking for these amendments to the House to be declared. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18047	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. The first vice-president, Mr. Nikola Špirić, answered for the word, please welcome.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18048	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, MPs, distinguished guests, members of the Council of Ministers, I have had a lot of talks about this law. I have to say a lot of attempts to reconcile seemingly uncompromising attitudes. We also had letters from the Government of Republika Srpska, disagreements from the Government of Republika Srpska, unfortunately they were late reactions and what I know about the very concept of this law, that all participants had the right to participate equally in the concept of this legislative project. And after the last address of the Government of Republika Srpska, I must say that I had contact with representatives of the World Bank, the OHR and the various institutions of the international community, including the Central Bank of BiH, then I tried to make a peaceful solution through two amendments that I would like to say to all, accepted and which do not mean derogating legal projects. I absolutely respect what counterpart Novaković says, that he remains with his amendments. I will naturally have a positive approach to these amendments, but given that the Constitutional and Legal Commission has therefore adopted a position that there is a constitutional basis, I think that anything but respect for the procedure would be making unnecessary brakes. But my suggestion to all who work on making legal proposals and who are asked for attitude, including the Governments of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Federation, that this must be done in time so that we do not debate here and would not be subject to different letters and influences. So, I think it's good today to go to another reading because by delay we wouldn't have achieved anything. We couldn't have invested new amendments, we have the only new amendments from colleague Novaković. It would be good if the amendments of counterpart Novaković could be agreed upon. I, I must tell you, have made a lot of efforts to get these amendments that I have defined to be accepted. If there is a compromise force, if any of the amendments were accepted, it would be good, but in any case, I have to say that I will accept this, and the SNSD Club if my colleague Živković lets me speak on behalf of the club, he will accept this law with these two amendments and we will, of course, declare on the amendments of counterpart Novaković. It seems to me that we would have made the biggest mistake not to adopt this law, because I have to say that there are suggestions from representatives of the international community, because this is quite a serious problem and international financial institutions have shown, and when it was almost necessary for willingness to help, whether it was a debt located on an entity or on a state. Whether it's going to be an imposition of a solution, I don't think it's going to be imposing a solution, but it's going to be obeying the law, and it's the only thing that's possible to comply with the laws in the country, no matter at which level they're passed, on entity or state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18049	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? If no one else, I apologize to Mr Gligorić Tihomir, please. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18050	And last time, I tried to suggest that he return to the commission and that the Commission try to find a solution, because we talked about how important this law is and what Professor Špirić was talking about and about financial organisations, external debt and future obligations that BiH should have. It is not disputed that BiH can only be in debt and this has been in practice so far. At the same time, I know that when it comes to the municipal level, that the municipalities can't be in charge without the finance minister, say, in this case, the entity here has the RS, not to give its consent and to raise it to this level, as proposed in the law. And I want to say that I'm really sorry that inside the Commission they couldn't find the right solution, since Mr. Novaković has proposed amendments at the commission stage, we have today, of course I will also be positive about this, to declare Mr. Novković's amendments. But here in general, I really think we need the law and we need to take care of these broader interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18051	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate because no one's answering for a word anymore. We're moving on to an adjudication. We vote on Amendment I. On the basis of Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, Mr Momčilo Novaković, MP at the House of Representatives, submitted the SDS Club president to this law, therefore, to the Law on Borrowing, Debt and Guarantees of BiH Amendment 6. Take the amendments in front of you. We move to a statement, we vote on Amendment I. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 12 for, 19 against, five abstentions. Amendment I did not receive parliamentary support. We move to a statement on the amendment of II Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 11 for, 19 against, 6 abstentions. This amendment has not received support from the House of Representatives either. We move to the Declaration on Amendment III. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Ten for, 19 against, seven abstentions. This amendment has not received the necessary parliamentary support either. That was Amendment III, wasn't it, Secretary?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18052	Yes, it is. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18053	We're going to Amendment IV. Prepare to vote on Amendment IV. Vote now. 11 for, 21 against, 6 abstentions. amandman IV did not receive parliamentary support. Amendment V. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 11 for 20 against, 6 abstentions. This amendment has not been supported. And, Amendment VI. We are voting on Amendment VI. Prepare to vote. Prepare to vote for amendment VI. Vote now. 11 for, 20 against, 7 abstentions. Amendment VI also did not receive support. We're moving on to a statement on the law as a whole. Therefore, the Law with the Commission Report, the Law as a whole in the second reading with the Report of the Commission. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 30 for, 7 against, 1 abstention, 23 FBiH, 7 RS. So the general and entity parliamentary majority exists. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives today, in a second reading, finally adopted the Bill of Law or the Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantees of BiH. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, that's Ad.6. The proposal for a law on foreign affairs, first reading and here we have a new report from the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum. And this report was sent to you by telefax on 12 May this year. This time, the Commission adopted the bill and adopted eight amendments. At the plenary stage, we didn't get the amendment. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate in my first reading. Prepare to vote on the law in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives unanimously, with 38 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstentions, and with a sufficient entity majority passed the Law in the first reading. 60 I suggest we go to another reading. I suggest we make a statement about the second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. We have one abstention, it's not unanimous. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives by majority vote, with 36 votes for, without against, 1 abstention and with a sufficient entity majority, decided to go to another reading, when it comes to the Law on Psol Service with foreigners. And I'm opening a debate in the second reading. We didn't have any amendments here, but, uh, here you go. Mr. Novaković wants a word, he has the right to debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18054	Dear colleagues, given that I had amendments adopted by the Commission, so at the commission stage, I would first and foremost like to thank the Commission as well as representatives of the Council of Ministers because we have found understanding, and how these amendments become an integral part of this law and thus the law becomes acceptable to all. I think this shows that it is possible and agreeable if there is enough will with the Council of Ministers and if we work together, if we try to get to this law. So, I'm just pointing out this as a positive example and since I haven't been present, after the last point I'd be praying to take a copy of the vote, therefore, from the previous point of delivery.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18055	You all have the right to request statements from the vote on any part of the agenda from the Office of Parliament, and you do not need to ask me as chairman because I have already repeated it several times. So each of the MPs, from now on, has a right and before this, has every right, every possible listing to take and here is the service and she is in charge of giving it to you. Who else wants to talk? If no one's answering for a word anymore, I'd ask Mr. Novaković to turn off the microphone upstairs, there's no need for us to have this one, right? Please, I'm closing in. May I have your attention, please? I'm concluding a debate on the Foreign Affairs Act in the second reading. We're passing, since we don't have an amendment, we're voting on the law. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Unanimity, as far as I can tell. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly with 35 votes for, without votes against, without abstention, and with a sufficient entity majority, adopted the Law on Foreign Affairs in another reading. 61 Moving to the 7th point of the agenda, that's Ad.7. A report on the financial operations of the Public Enterprise of the News publishing organisation "The Official Journal of BiH", on the annual accounting for the period from January 1st to December 31st, 2004 You've received the esteemed colleagues and colleagues for this part of the agenda. The report discussed our financial and budget committee and delivered to Dom the opinion that was sent to you on 12 May through telefax. You have seen the Commission propose to the House for the adoption of two conclusions held in its opinion. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Who wants to talk? Mrs. Milićević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18056	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, so we have received a report from the Finance Commission, i.e. an opinion on the Financial Reporting of the Official Journal of BiH. During the debate, which was held on the commission, and taking into account the documentation provided to us, so we asked the perpetrators present in front of the Official Journal, to deliver business costs and direct expenses, analysts, because such sumptuous amounts, did not show themselves enough, so we couldn't actually have insight from them, so that this other side is the reason you have in the report. So it's an analytical review of expenditure and expenses. As far as the conclusions are concerned, we would like you to set yourself up according to these conclusions primarily on this first conclusion concerning the activities we initiated last year, when we had the same agenda point only for the previous year, the Official Journal of BiH, where we asked the Council of Ministers to define legal status. Since they're half-steps in the field, so we're strengthening that conclusion and we're asking to define legal status. It means to determine the Council of Ministers according to the Official List. And secondly, a repeat of last year's updated conclusion. Here, if you were looking at this report, you can see that there are funds that were immobilized, or isolated from the bank, armed with 2 million and 5,000 marks. When we recommended last year that these funds be paid, directed to the Refugee Fund, with this year's meaning strengthened again, the possibility of realising that conclusion in addition to the benefit shown in this year, that is 859 000 KM, and that means joining this amount of 2 million. I, so much as explain this report to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18057	Thank you very much for your clarification. We also read your report. Mr. Momčilo Novaković asked for a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18058	I can't take the impression that we could just read this one, from last year's debate on this report, that we would have the exact same debate as today. The fact is that since last year, but not a single shift in the direction of the objections that were here, has been made by 62 Council of Ministers and that we have here today, the Financial Business Report, it would be good to have business but we don't have just financial business, a semi-legal enterprise. So companies that have never been fully registered. The Council of Ministers is last time obliged to resolve the status issue of this public enterprise and today the Commission proposes to re-exploit activities at the final definition of the company's legal status. What's evident and what's being asked here as a serious question, if the pedestal achieves this much profit, which he doesn't know what he's going to do, then the question of the price of services that the company is doing. Whoever determined the prices of these services, on the basis of which calculations it was determined, or who approved and again I say, on what basis the calculations are. A lot of similar questions could be asked here. Is it not the state's duty to grant public-interest jobs to those who will do them, or before that to open a tender, to see who will offer better conditions for the same business that was said here? I must, again, express my regret that the Council of Ministers has done nothing on this matter, because it is obvious that someone is responsible for doing nothing. So it's obvious that one can freely say bureaucratic structure quite the opposite if you want constitutional amendments to the constitution of the people, so the interrelationship and the national structure of this public enterprise, shows in fact that one group of people who achieves far greater wages and incomes than these MPs who are very, very often pounding on the head, in all possible ways trying to keep those positions. I can't support this report, of course I'm saying this right now on my own, I can't support the report because I think it would be better if we had considered the business report today. Then, in that variant, they would learn more about this public enterprise. So, not just financial business, but corporate business at all. I know we can't narrow it down, because we didn't even start it here and that's the problem, and that's probably why we wouldn't be doing it for a long time, and we're not gonna start it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18059	Mr. Špirić, go on.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18060	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, fellow Members, MPs, if the Council of Ministers has not realised the conclusions of this Parliament's report since the adoption of last year's financial report, I am not ready today to also discuss this report, with due regard to all the efforts made to bring this report before Parliament. If the Council of Ministers can't register a company whose report we're discussing as a state's first act, then there's really something wrong. I must say that for these reasons, not so, I also appreciate the management of the company, the report that was filed, but we must return to the formal legal frameworks. And I remember well the reports we adopted last year, and when everything is said, so we don't repeat the story today. I'm not old enough to repeat it. Thank you very much. And, of course, I have to say that this company needs and I'm not slow about it, but if the Council of Ministers in a year between the two reports isn't getting up to do everything, to legitimize it, then I think it's losing the sense that we're discussing it at all. Thank you. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18061	Mr. Beriz Belkić. Have Mr. Selim Bešlagić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18062	Here, Mrs Milićević already said on behalf of the Commission what should have been said in my opinion, so she said about the facts. The Commission considered and adopted the Financial Report. So we found no reason to question him, inaccuracy, etc. So we haven't considered the total business, which is what Novaković is talking about. We intervened, Ljilja explained it, requested analysis, requested additional data, etc. All we're talking about is the address of the Council of Ministers. This is all the address of the Council of Ministers we're talking about, and I wouldn't say that the way is now that we simply won't adopt the report financially, to force the Council of Ministers to do something. Therefore, what the Commission has proposed should also be respected. I'm really asking you to do the job. What else could we have asked the Council of Ministers to finally end the matter? Who knows what's more hidden and what the arrangements are, can I make a deal, can't agree, our standard story. Don't open it now. Continuity, continuity, who is at the head of the management, who is the director, whether it is a Srbin or a Hrvat or a Bošnjak, who knows what the arrangements are, but we cannot question the institution, that we are not considering the Financial Report. We can only talk about whether he's right or not. Is it positive or not positive? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18063	Thank you very much. Mr. Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18064	Dear colleagues, I agree that with this attitude my predecessors have said and I think there is another criticism, I think the Commission has said well, according to the Minitar Council, to define the legal status of this institution. However, unlike my predecessors, I would like to say, I would like to congratulate this house, which, if nothing else, is possible, according to the Commission's proposal, made it possible for refugees to return to the budget, and not, but to pay, the proposal, therefore, 2 million and 800, that is something that I would like to God we have such institutions that make a positive balance and not negative. On the other hand, what if it were all about the akon, if it were a loss. Therefore, I think that here is the Commission's position to refer to the Council of Ministers to define this position and the Commission's proposal that these funds be paid for the return of refugees and displaced persons and that the members of the list, we ask the Official Journal, or we ask, rather than ask, for their statutes, legal status to be definitely requested by the Council of Ministers and to get rid of it. And I won't be the next time to accept a report like this because I don't think it's serious anymore from the Council of Ministers or possibly from the very management of this Official List. But this time I am for it, because Mr. Belkić and Mrs. President of this, that it is simply being considered and if it is necessary to seek the legal side, then let someone who does not understand this address the legal commission at the Assembly. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18065	Thank you. The director of the official list asked for a word, didn't he? There's only Mr. Novaković's replica, please, is there a discussion? Here you go, Novaković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18066	Well, I have to say, I did not dispute any of what Mr. Bešlagić was talking about. So, whether this firm is working successfully or not, of course, but please, we are here the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, or the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I've got a financial business review here by year's reckoning, so we've seen it since '96. By 2004 that it was paid on behalf of the profit tax, 1,774,881 I ask who? It means to whom, if we are the BiH Parliament, where that money is paid. Paid to Canton of Sarajevo. Please, I don't want to adopt a financial report of such institutions here, I didn't ask for anything else, and now I'm asking that this firm, like all other companies, be registered, get legal status. We determine as with others, therefore, who are members of the Management Board, who is the management of this firm, we, or the Council of Ministers, are here and that after that, like any other report that I will adopt here. No temporary legal status resolutions. Why didn't we take someone else to settle temporarily? Please don't. So I'm not against people doing positive, dark work.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18067	Thank you. Mrs. Kapetanović, let Mr. Zorić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18068	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm just a little bit of this one, to get involved in this debate. I support these views of the Commission, but I think it should be drawn up that in these general problems of the social, as our country has and cannot solve them, it is really a task that these 2 million immobilised funds deposited in banks, and this result this year and is paid for these purposes, not to be that these conclusions that are like here, as they say, since I wasn't in this meeting last year, I wasn't able to hear it, that the conclusions were the same and that clearly did not respect that conclusion, so these funds were standing in banks and they weren't this, used for these purposes that are proposed, which I think is a very good proposal. And, therefore, just to draw these conclusions that it is being respected for this year and that these problems about the company's registration and this, the overall termination of the company, are being carried out here as proposed.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18069	Thank you very much. Mr. Vinko Zorić, may Mr. Mirsad Ćeman be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18070	Here I am, here I heard a lot of things I didn't know. And I wonder if we're a good address where this report should be delivered. If we didn't, or if the Council of Ministers didn't register this firm, then it seems to me that anyone can file a report and come here, take the agenda point and we can talk about it. I'm confused. I don't know what else to say. Maybe when the director talks, maybe I'll find out something else, so I'll let myself take my word for it again. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18071	Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18072	Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I last time when such a report was on the agenda, as well as a good part of the already speaking colleagues, expressed himself laudably, given the way to say, running the firm, given the financial result. And it needs to be re-assessed because it's really said that this firm is knowingly managed, done business, etc. On the other hand, I would really like to point out what is said, which is that this status needs to be resolved, because here are these issues that would be excessive, and as far as the Commission's proposal is concerned, the Commission has rightly noted that the profits obtained can also be directed in another way, which, of course, should also be taken into account some projections of the business nature that the company itself is considering. That is why it would be good to hear representatives of the Official Journal or companies from which it would be safe to conclude that there is room, at least as I understood the report and the understanding of the Commission both for one and the other items. Thus, improving the company’s business conditions as such but at the same time focusing on some of the things for which it is here and this congregation can be defined. That's it. So I just want to say that this is also one of the examples that only praises the final blow to clean things up, when it comes to status and everything else shows that the way the company is run can still serve if you want others for what they say and for reputation even. Thank you very much, that's my opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18073	Thank you. We have three replicas, Špirić, Zorić, Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18074	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to try and get out of this. I don't think we should be harassing the company's leadership to file a report. And we need to get into a formal legal situation because this address is where the report is even adopted. Well, you know what to do, what to be a bad manager to do negative business in a company like this. We don't think anybody understands anything here. And don't let the people in today's showdown. It's not their fault that there's no address in this country that can be addressed, which came from the cantonal level to the state level, because we adopted a report and assigned a task to the Council of Ministers. I'd like to spare our colleagues, our management people, and that's why I thought, so I don't want to discuss the numbers at all. So I do know what it means to be a public company involved in publishing all the decisions of the public opinion, etc. where there's no competition. What's the guarantee that the state parliament can't mandate private printing tomorrow to deal with this and get the best offer in the tender, so you can see what the savings are. Then we could talk maybe about savings, I don't know how much, but I'm not gonna slow down now, so, the results of the company, it's not my intention. But can we seriously get the Council of Ministers to, because we're going to become simple crates in which they can put whoever they want in a fight for legal continuity, I don't slow it down either. So, but the secrets to simply conclude, the Council of Ministers to define the status so that we can support the people, that's it. Thank you very much. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18075	Zorić, Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18076	All Nikola said was what I was.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18077	Okay. Novaković, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18078	I think we should decide first, then, whether or not this report should be the subject of this, today's plea. If it's going to be the subject of a plea, then I have one question. So if there's going to be any turning representatives at all, I don't think it should be, but if it is, then I have one question. And that is, did the management of this company address the Justice Department of the last report that it is registering in the territory of the whole, parts of the entire BiH? Namely, when I proposed the Law on the Auto-Moto Alliance of BiH, it was faster to reregister BIHAMK into an association operating in the territory of the entire BiH. It thus showed the will and intention to carry out this activity, at least intention or will to perform in the territory of the entire BiH. I am interested in, therefore, if spoken, did they and when they submitted the request, or expressed their will to register, to operate in the territory of the entire BiH?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18079	Thank you. Replica Mr. Beriz Belkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18080	You see, respecting the replica is to all those who question the debate on the financial report, etc. So I respect the right of people, and I am not satisfied with both the status and manner of relations towards Parliament and Council relations, etc. But we can't go from the fact that these men from the march fell and that they gathered together as a group of citizens and said, here we are today this company that printed the Official Journal. Gentlemen, this is about the Official Journal of BiH, an institution that was established and existed before the war. The other thing is after the war, continuity, our standard story, I agree with you, Mr. Špirić, but where else would people turn? They were never a cantonal firm. The thing is, back then, we didn't have a single account, which we did a little bit differently, etc. And, completely, please, there is no republic, of course, but there is BiH, Mr. Novaković, of course, and we will wait for thank Bog, we will wait for the Council of Ministers to finally do so. It's your Council of Ministers, Mr. Novaković, you've set him up with me and Zorić. So let's replace them if they're not going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18081	Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18082	Thank you, Mr. President. I think looking from a formal-legal aspect, I think Mr. Špirić is absolutely right. I don't know what we can discuss. What does Parliament have to do with this institution? Whether Parliament has been participating in the management system and 67 institutions or Parliament has set a budget, probably when the budget was adopted, we have accepted the budget and they are sending a report to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18083	away from the microphone, no exposure, please, business intervention,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18084	Don't be nervous, our years don't allow much anxiety, it can hurt, I'm talking about the agenda, it is. If you haven't listened carefully enough, a little, yes. So the question arises why he first let the College go to the agenda. How did we get it in the budget that we have without the institution being registered? Well, that's a real mess. I agree with Mr Zorić that these things must not happen. These are absurd things, though, that such things can happen to us in this House, it's absolutely, we're not ready, we're not ready to vote on it at all until these issues are cleared up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18085	Okay. Who else wants to speak from the MPs? The Director of the Official List is asking for a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18086	The Honorable Chairman and MPs and representatives of Parliament, I signed this letter with a final of 31.12. while my post as director lasted. We agreed on an institution to submit this way and this time, one oral report with three things in mind. First of all, your conclusions from the previous year, when there were 28 debates that mostly contain these issues that have become today. I'm just going to do a little analysis of what's been done in those conclusions. Previously, just to say, since 2000, I have sent 22 letters to the High Pedestrian, the Bulldozer Commission and the Council of Ministers to resolve the legal status of the institution that started with the work of 20 June 1945 and which, with the last law, did what was in charge of, what was registered and its registration is still currently being conducted at the competent court. Last year you decided to consider the status issue. We told you at that time that our insistent initiative, and even some of the conditions to say, private talks with the representatives of the Ministry of Justice, came to a temporary solution, to publish a decision on the provisional takeover by the Council of Ministers on 7 June to resolve the issue and to pass the law by the end of the year and to legally resolve it. We did not stay aside then, we proposed amendments and additions to the statutes and these amendments and additions to the statutes were published on 29 July last year. The board of directors remained the issue, so we again addressed the request to resolve the issue and the Council of Ministers on 28 October last year, had the chairman of the 68 Governing Board, making the number of members of the Management Board round and, as this one, all the peoples representing BiH are represented on this board. Since I have been given the term of office, I have again addressed the request to resolve the Director's question, and on 9 October, a re-competition has been called, and to this day this issue has not been resolved, so we have an acting director, and I am here not to resolve the issue. We've already intervened five times in writing to resolve it. As far as the registration itself is concerned, we also didn't stay away. BiH passed a Law on registration of legal persons established by BiH institutions. We submitted an application to the Justice Ministry 8 months ago to sign up as a legal person established by the Council of Ministers as such as the BiH institution. We received an answer that there is no registration rule in the Register at the Justice Department, that there are no forms and that we cannot perform the registration until the rule is passed. Meanwhile, the regulation has been passed and now our registration is in progress. The request has also been re-applyed to some of the Council of Ministers' consent on the acting director or appointment of a director in the meantime, and the procedure to make the formal entry into the Register of Legal Persons established by the institutions will be completed. So that's all we could do in this part and do. In your further discussion last year, there was an objection to the national structure of the company and we tried to make a move here in the new arrangements, and we did so to reduce the number and number and percentage of Bošnjak, increase the percentage and number of Srbin, so now the structure is slowly moving towards what it should serve. As for just another remark that was last year, it was that we had delivered the report in only one language, and that the gentleman insisted that he had not received the report and that he would not discuss the report, so we made an effort this year, whether it was a very small effort, to make a report, a report in three languages and two letters, and we hope that you were satisfied with it. Compared to the results we achieved, especially last year, these are the results that came in one piece not planned because we draw up our plan in such a way as to plan how many pages will be published by each newspaper. We have this, uh, three groups of letters. Although we are being held conditionally on what is said to be the legal face of BiH, based on a special law, under the Law on the Federation's Official Journal, we are publishers of the "Official Journals of the Federation", based on the Canton Law and the Treaty that we have concluded with the Canton, we are also publishers of the "Official Journals of Canton of Sarajevo". In our plan, it is characteristic that if we achieve a larger number of pages that our costs are higher than production organisations, where if you produce more products, you make more income and you have, of course, higher and cost but there is a difference there in each respect. We have the opposite, and we also warned last year, and now I just want to draw attention again that last year, by 350%, there has been an increase in the number of official pages of the "Official Messenger of BiH" and we have issued some 16.567 pages in total, and we are expected that if we as well as Slovenia have to publish 20,000 pages of regulations, which makes us 3 times 20,000 in three languages, and two letters is 60,000, if it goes into entity votes, that is about 240,000 and I don't think that this country's budget will be covered and we've given a warning to give up the same rules being published both in entity and state votes, which has no legal, no technical, no economic logic. And hopefully it will be. I mean, there was an increase in income last year. In the past year, the Federation adopted its new regulation on the procurement of goods, services and the execution of works in which 69 has determined that most of the state institutions, federal, cantonal, municipal and public enterprises are being announced in the Official Journal of the Federation. We immediately accepted it as a pilot project and expected that the adoption of the Public Procurement Act would wait for us a big deal that happened in the meantime, so that after that regulation there was an increase in revenues in the advertising part of 127%. But that means that the people who are working on the preparation, too, had to spend as much time and effort to get the job done. In November, a Law on Public Procurement was published that regulates the issue of the publication of a tender by all contracting authorities that have anything to do with state and state capital, to say the simplest thing and we have made a strategy. We bought a new business space, we hired a new number of certain people, we bought them equipment, and we started with the realisation of that job where by 9 May this year we had already published 1,258 tenders.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18087	I'd like you to bring the exhibit to an end. Give us,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18088	That's how we try to follow what's our duty. We, besides these paper editions, have the same editions on the CD, we have it on the Internet. So we're trying to be in line with everything that's going on in the world today and try to solve the question in terms of what we support in whole this conclusion of yours, as far as the status is concerned, to the end. Therefore, after the decision on provisional adoption has been taken after the Management Board has been completed, after the amendment of the Statute has been made, it would be appropriate to regulate the status issue by law. And as it will be, the Council of Ministers will probably take its stand and suggest it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18089	Thank you very much. Thank you, Director. This is enough information really. Who wants to talk any further? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. We declare ourselves of course on this report. This includes two proposals for the Commission's conclusions, one concerning the request of the Council of Ministers for the resolution of status, a normative arrangement. And the second one that applies to the course of these, about 2 million and 850-950, how many, I don't know, thousands of marks, at the expense of the Fund for Refugees and Displaced Persons. So they're immobilized, according to these finance experts, funds. Too bad they're standing there, it's better to go back many times, but here, I'm putting the proposal to a statement with these Commission conclusions. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 21 for, 4 against, 1 abstention, 19 FBiH, 2 RS, no, has, has, has, has, but no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Nikola, you don't agree, do you? 70 Let's go to a counter-vote. Let MPs from the RS who are against, to vote those who are not against, not vote. Get ready to vote, we're going to the second round. Vote now. So 9 versus, that's less than 2/3. I find that this conclusion has been adopted, please, over. We're not going to repeat anything else. Well, no, I'll keep saying it, and I can, I can, I can, I can do it. Novaković is looking for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18090	I'm expressing the reserve. I'm asking for an individual vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18091	Secretary, please give the Republika Srpska individual, please the nice procedure is very simple. I ask the secretary to take a list of MPs from the RS and hold an individual vote, who is against you, please. Yeah, you're just asking who's against it. This is a legitimate request, expressed suspicion, procedure, go ahead. And we're gonna have to take this listing if it is. But what's going to be right now is appropriate.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18092	Miloš Jovanović, v. Ljiljana Milićević,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18093	He's not in the O.R., let's move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18094	Nenad Mišić,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18095	v.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18096	Momčilo Novaković,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18097	v.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18098	Marija Perkanović,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18099	v.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18100	Against, 71 Dušanka Majkić,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18101	v.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18102	Against, Nikola Špirić,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18103	v.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18104	Against, Milorad Živković,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18105	v.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18106	Opposite, Jelina Đurković, Jelina Đurković, we go further, Petar Kunić,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18107	v.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18108	Against Mirko Blagojević,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18109	Anti-Fraud
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18110	v. Tihomir Gligorić,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18111	Anti-Fraud
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18112	Please, v, Elmir Jahić,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18113	He's not in the O.R.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18114	Senija Kapetanović, 72
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18115	For
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18116	Ten against.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18117	How much does he mind? Count it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18118	I've got 10 against Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18119	I'm realizing it's 2/3 and this report hasn't been adopted. This is relevant now. What we can do, what's there. We're moving on. We're going to the 8th point of the agenda, that's Ad.8. Report on the work of the BiH Law Department for the period 01.01.2004. to 31.12.2004 Please note. This report was discussed by our Constitutional and Legal Commission. The opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission was delivered to you by fax on 12 May. The Commission proposes to the House to adopt a report on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina's Ombudsman. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. We're voting on the report. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives by majority vote, with 31 votes in favour, without one abstention and with a sufficient entity majority, adopted the BiH Law Department's report for the period 1 January 2004 to 31 December 2004. In 2004. We're going to the 9th point of the agenda, that's Ad.9. The proposal for an interpretation at the request of the Commission to consider the status of persons naturalised after the entry into force of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina until the entry into force of the Law on Citizenship of BiH for the third time, ladies and gentlemen, we have this point on the agenda. I've been informed that you should have received a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission on the benches. He thinks you got it. At the end of this report, you also have the position of the Commission. Namely, the Commission finds that there could be no undeniable legal position within the Commission, and proposes that the House of Representatives ask the High Representative for an interpretation, i.e. legal opinion on the issue referred to in Article 5. Anexa X in brackets (civil implementation of the Peace Agreement) and under the signs of an alleged closed bracket. 73 I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am putting the Commission's report to the vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives with 29 votes in favour of, 2 against, 2 abstentions and with a sufficient entity majority, adopted the Constitutional and Legal Commission Report. This is how we ended point 9. Point 10 of the agenda, we move to point 10, that's Add.10. The motion for a decision on the termination of the parliamentary term of Ivo Miri Jović, an MP at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, is our obligation to a respected colleague and colleagues, as you are aware to determine the termination of the parliamentary term and to deliver the decision to the Electoral Commission, in order to assign the mandate to the next qualified candidate from the list of the Croatian Democratic Union-Demist Christians. For the sake of reminders, we appointed Mr Ivo Miro Jović as a member of the BiH presidency at the 56th session of May 4th and confirmed this appointment at the May 9th session. You've got the motion for a decision. By law, the term of office of the MP shall end on the day of the occurrence of the reason, which shall be in this case on 9 May 2005. It says 1005, 2005. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. We're voting on a proposal for this decision. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives by majority vote, 30 for, 1 against, one abstention, enough entity majority, has established a suspension, a decision establishing the end of the term of office for Mr Ivo Miri Jović and here, we will send this to the Election Commission, we expect to have a new colleague or colleague here in Parliament by the next session. 74 We move to the 11th point of the agenda, that's Ad.11. The agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on border traffic and co-operation, (b) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the mutual abolition of visas, (c) the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on common locations at the border crossing points, (d) Anexa II The Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina on common locations at the common crossing point at the border crossing point of Neum 1 – Klek, (f) Aneksa IV The Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on common locations at the border crossing points at the border crossing point of the border crossing point of the Neum 1 - Klek, f) Anexa IV The Treaty between Bosnia and Republic of Croatia on common locations on the border crossings at the border locations of the border of the border area of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the border crossing point of the border between the border area of the border of Croatia and the border of the border of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of All right, individually then. I'm opening a debate, please. Mr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18120	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I didn't want to insist on, when I suggested that this agenda item be added to Annex VII, but I wanted within this agenda point, when the debate was opened to say a few things. I'd like first of all to ask, since we didn't hear it on the Foreign Affairs Commission, let's hear it now, what about this aneks vi, if anyone can tell us. If he can't say that, I would suggest that the report with ratification or the Commission's Foreign Affairs Report, together with ratification of the contract of c) and further, return to the Commission and together in the package, when Annex VII of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Croatia, as regards the border post of Kostanica, is considered in the package, that is my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18121	Okay, who else wants to talk? Mr. Križanović, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18122	Thank you, I'll be very brief and I don't mean to talk about the content of these contracts and agreements today but I would like to point out, give a few actually notes and remarks in this way of adoption. 75 First, I think that we are very often approaching the formal question of ratification, i.e. by giving consent to ratification of these international agreements and contracts. With that in mind, I'd like to conclude that most of these agreements and contracts were signed more than two years ago, some over two years ago. So the question really is, what's the reason he's so late for ratification? Secondly, one of the contracts on the agenda today is the Treaty for the Neum 2 border crossing – Zaton Doli, which says in Article 7 paragraph 2, this annex is concluded for a certain time, until 1st of April 2004, until a new border crossing will be built. So, we're going to ratify something that's stopped going on... days. In that sense, since the conclusions of this House are not being carried out, I would only suggest to our foreign policy commission, that a little more seriously access to the reports delivered to this home, because let's say that our opinions that follow these agreements and agreements on approval for ratification are one, one short preamble, listed these contracts and agreements. There is not even a date when the commission's session is held at which these contracts and agreements are supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18123	Thank you. Mr. Novaković, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18124	I will, on behalf of the SDS Club, say that we under (a) and (b) will, therefore, support these two agreements in particular, especially in this area when it comes to border traffic, so on citizens or, above all, Hrvat from BiH who have this, and can have certain problems if we do not adopt it. As for other contracts, especially these contracts that speak of common locations, we therefore support Mr. Živković's position. Namely, that's our attitude. We will not, or support ratification of any agreement until all common border crossing agreements are here before us, so the rest of it is the Agreement when it comes to Costa Rica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18125	Next, who wants to talk? You'll get your word. Who wants the MPs? Representative of the Council of Ministers, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18126	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, it is my pleasure to welcome you and to introduce you, from the point of view of these remarks to certain annexes of the treaty that are not attached today, that they are at the Council of Ministers' meeting today, to be considered. I have now been informed that for this border crossing, for which MP Živković has asked a question, has been adopted but constitutional procedures and procedures must be respected in accordance with the Law on Ratification and Signing of Interstate Contracts and Agreements. 76 These agreements, which are now on the agenda today, have passed in accordance with the Law and the Constitution, the constitutional procedure, have been prepared in accordance with the constitutional procedure. As for the remarks made by the MPs that one contract contains the date that has expired, it must be ratified as signed, regardless of this, and the ratification procedure has lasted as long as it has passed through all institutions. I'm saying, on behalf of the promoter, that these agreements be adopted like this. If you are satisfied with this response regarding the objections to the adoption of the Kostanica border crossing, here I am informed that this was adopted at the Council of Ministers' meeting today, because it was not at last session, a session was not held on Friday.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18127	Thank you very much. I think after these clarifications from the Council of Ministers, we're in a position to make decisions. Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, are involved in international obligations. So Bosnia and Herzegovina has already made these commitments, this is the final stage of this, in the ratification process. We have a response that entered the stenogram and related to the Kostajnica spoken of by Mr. Živković, which was joined by Novaković. So, Costa Rica is now set by an agreement on the Council of Ministers and the procedure, so it goes towards Parliament. I'm asking you to
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18128	Can I have a five-minute break at the club's request?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18129	All right, I'm taking five minutes off. Please try to support this, this is an international obligation, to move on. Five minutes off. Don't leave the O.R. There's a break in the O.R. There's a word in the name of the club, please. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18130	The Honorable Chairman
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18131	I ask the MPs to sit in their seats. The service, Gligorić Tihomir, thank you very much. Mr. Živković has a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18132	We have, meanwhile, held consultations and heard from people directly involved in this problem, but given that this contract, the Annex of the Treaty has already been signed and that it does not need much time to be ratified, I suggest that 77 of the C) and further, these agreements return to the Commission that when the Commission puts this Annex to Treaty VII here be the subject of our debate, that we ratify them. Thank you. And I ask you to vote for that proposal, and if it doesn't pass, then vote individually for these contracts.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18133	I have to admit I've heard something like this from the president of the SNSD Club, it's my personal opinion because, uh, I don't think we need that kind of mistrust. We heard the contract today was on the Council of Ministers but what's there. I can't change anything here, I think it's better than the agreements fail today, but I'm expressing mine, please. I, uh, I'm putting an agreement under a) on a plea. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 34 for, 10 against, 10 abstentions, enough entity majority. I find that the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has agreed to ratify the BiH-Croatian border traffic and co-operation agreement. I am putting an agreement under b) on a plea. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, a little silence itself, unanimously with 32 votes in favour, without, without abstention, with a sufficient entity majority, gave consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on mutual visa waiver. And, since my assessment is that the other agreements today will not receive parliamentary support, until this second agreement, which was spoken of by Mr Živković, I am sorry to say so, but I suggest that the other agreements under c), d, e, f, g and h, we take them down and put them in the next session, together with this Agreement on Costa Rica. Prepare to vote on this proposal for a conclusion. Vote now. I find that with 25 votes to, 6 against, 2 abstentions and a sufficient entity majority, this conclusion has been adopted. We're going to the 12th agenda, Ad.12. Proposal for the conclusion of MP Nikola Špirić, who has two points and which is the floor, 1. Prior to issuing consent to the appointment of the Auditor-General and the replacement of the Auditor-General, they shall be valid until the adoption of a new audit law, and 2. It requires the BiH Council of Ministers to submit a proposal for a new law on the revision of BiH institutions without delay. I'm opening the debate and reporting for debate immediately, using this pay phone. Don't make me go there for a pay phone and I suggest we just change this first conclusion a little bit. So, to issue prior consents for the appointment of the Auditor-General and the Vice-General of the Auditor-General until the appointment, until the new appointments, who will be appointed, we do not know, not the law, but the new appointments and that this point 2 remains on the law. 78 Well, I'd like to correct it if Mr. Špirić agrees with this correction that I am.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18134	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, I, of course, appreciate any attempt to come to a better conclusion because it is not about new appointments, it is about competition. It's only procedures that are interpreted differently because this law didn't provide for them, and there's a new law. In order not to do so, reports remain as acts without force, so 2004 needs to be completed. Then it's simple that all three auditors should be brought into the same line. Whoever comes to the competition later, whether all three of them come forward or the name of someone else, it's completely irrelevant. But here, we just want to keep the continuity of the Audit Office for the reason it's so hard to be real, what people do there. I don't care what political practices they're from, what kind of agreement they'll be, because the law has already been handed over to the Council of Ministers that's been made. You need to come to Parliament. It can cost a month or two days, three months, etc. But we keep the current structure of the Audit Office. And that's why I don't think it's good for a new appointment, because I think it's a matter of competition and not of appointment. That's what I think, Šefik, to help us,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18135	We can write, so it's not at all controversial.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18136	I don't mind this, either, but it'll leave room for the wrong interpretation.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-17-0.u18137	Nikola, I mean, I think that between the two of us, thank you very much, I don't think there's any difference between the two of us in the reasons, or the motives of this, related to, in fact, the goal that we want to reach these conclusions. These people who are now the general auditor and deputies, the term of office has expired. The 2004 review is going, there is no competition. The law has not arranged a way, at least as far as I know, to be followed by people who know this issue better than I do, filled with this vacuum. So as far as I know, even though we're saying now that these early releases of consent apply to the adoption of a new law, I think it's a more inaccurate formulation until a new appointment and election, however you want, it doesn't matter the contest, not the competition. So we just want these people to keep doing their job until new appointments. What new appointments will be, in accordance with which law, how, we initiate the procedure of the law. But while the accent is at it, the institution must not be empty until new appointments are made. That's the whole joke, and that's why I'm talking about transforming this. Do you agree, Nikola? Here's Nikola accepts my suggestion. Prepare to vote. We are voting on Mr Špirić's proposal, corrected in conclusion 1 for what I said and what Mr Špirić agreed with. 79 Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we adopted these two conclusions in the text as presented in the stenogram. With 31 votes for, 1 against, 2 abstentions and a sufficient entity majority. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have thus exhausted the agenda of the 57th session of the House of Representatives. I thank you for the presence of today's session, I would like to say one successful work of this session today. The college didn't consider when the next session would be. In any case, I would like to inform you that we will have a plenary session of both homes, which will be addressed by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić, concerning the interregion and the Law on VAT and the Directorate for indirect taxation. That plenary session should be sometime by 13. 06. We'll probably have another House of Representatives session by then, we'll see that according to the available state, we've been pretty much cleaning up, as it is said, supplies when it comes to materials that are under consideration of this home. The secretary will be bringing in a report these days and we'll set ourselves up. We will watch until 13. we will have another session of the House and by 13. we will certainly have a plenary session of both houses of the BiH Parliament to address the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Thank you again, I'm closing the 57th session at 4:35 p.m. Thank you.
