ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20038	I am opening the 66th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the employees at the session, our regular guests, representatives of international organisations who have expressed interest in monitoring the work of this session, have been invited. In this regard, I would like to welcome all present, representatives of the Council of Ministers, Minister Čolak and other representatives of international organisations present and monitoring today's work. According to the service report, I find that the meetings are attended by 33 MPs, 25 from the Federation, 8 from Republika Srpska, which means we have a quorum for full and full-fledged decision-making. As far as I'm concerned, Dr. Nakaš, the others who haven't justified today's presence, we expect them to join this session during the session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you received the proposed agenda in the invitation to the session. I just want to say first of all, before we move on to the agenda, to apologize for this wait of an hour and a half. We had a narrow extended college, we were considering how and how most effective we are today, and therefore this is an hour-and-a-half delay because the Defence and Security Commission was supposed to be sitting between 10 and 11 hours, to remove some of the dilemmas related to the Defence Act, the Law of Service in the Armed Forces of BiH. In that sense, we agreed at the Expansive College to ask the presidents of clubs and we reached full agreement that today we are not expanding the agenda, since it is important legal projects, but to try to make energy happy that today we are effectively completing this agenda that you have received in addition. Since I cannot, of course, take the right of the MPs to propose new points of the agenda, I am obliged to inform you. So there is no change in the agenda when it comes to the College, with little misunderstandings taking place when it comes to the Defence Commission. It was, for example, when the Law on Serving in the Armed Forces of BiH, it was that there were different versions in Serbian, Bosnian and Croatian, and the Commission would just begin working at 12 to see how it could address these shortcomings and simply give a chance to all MPs and all clubs to show their view of the proposed legal 2 projects in the amendment phase. I am convinced that this phase will be successfully completed and that today we will have one and the other law in the first reading. With these notes, then, I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Who's answering for a word? Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20039	I thank Mr. Špirić. I'd like an explanation before I suggest a agenda point. In fact, you know that we, more than a month ago, referred to the parliamentary procedure of two laws, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Act on Additional Value and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises. Let me remind you, this is the law that introduces a zero rate, a one-number release, except for one number of items and goods and services and a change of the Excise Act that introduces additional excise duties on luxury goods. Why am I saying this, Mr. Chairman? Because more than a month ago, this law was passed in parliamentary procedure. He was practically parliamentaryly already dead at the moment. In fact, in 15.9., the Commission is constitutionally-legal, and I want it here, and I'm going to ask you to call the chairman of the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of Finance, because this is scandalous what's going on. Here the most capitalal thing that the public has in the last month has been intensively having a debate, trying to get parliamentary executions and procedural tricks thrown out of a normal debate and then bring us before the final act and say again in the end you are too late. Why am I saying this, Mr. Chairman? Because in 15.9 the Commission was constitutionally-legislative, led by Mr Ćeman, to hold a session of the Commission, and it was unsettled that the constitutional basis for amending the law for which the constitutional basis existed was to adopt. But let's let it go, when it comes, we'll talk about it. I just want to be clear about the procedure. The Commission's report says that this text of the law is forwarded to the competent commission, i.e. the Commission's Milićević. That's what it says in Mr. Ćeman's report 15 days ago. It says here that this report is being forwarded to the competent commission even though it has not received the constitutional basis. I also checked before the session with Mrs. Milićević. She, as chairman of the commission, didn't get this report. There are different interpretations. In one interpretation, the Constitutional and Legal Report, since it was not favourable, was to come to the House to declare it, and then if it died in the House, the constitutional legal basis could not go any further. And it's another possibility that he's not going to the House until the board of directors has declared that he's going to go to the House together. However, the fact is that today, at this moment, by the people who were on the Constitutional and Legal Commission and who were, one for, one against, that it's practical that I don't see what's going on with this law, there's ignorance, there's no consensus on what to do with this law now, and time is going on. And Mr. Chairman, and today we have agenda points for which the commission is sitting right now, and we have postponed Parliament's session. And, any explanation such as from the Constitutional and Legal Commission, that it can't go to the House's agenda, because it's not the Commission's report, or some similar procedural thing, I think it's unacceptable. 3 I would ask, therefore, that you answer me in front of the College, what is the status of this and then I would suggest an appropriate item of the agenda. I am responsible for saying that this is an attempt to implement the change of the VAT law because there is no willingness for people to go public again and say, we do not allow this to change. And he's trying to be procedural right now, and right now I want to say, I've been having intense conversations with representatives of the international community that have led us here. And they're all telling me the same thing, that time is running out and that there won't be time to change the law, as if the coordinated action of people between the international community is saying, what you're changing the law, there's no time and our procedure that pretends there's no time. And I'd like to ask your explanation, so I apologize for this, but you know this is a capital issue and we can't let this die because of the procedure. Let the parliamentary majority come out and say, we reject that law. It'll be one VAT and a dot. There's no problem. We'll keep doing our job, but don't put us in this situation to do it because of the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20040	I will, of course, ask Branka, from the point of view of the procedure to decident answers and I will tell you that, my perversely positive attitude towards the initiative, I am in a situation when I chair, to respect the Rules of Procedure. We have therefore had an attempt to interpret, if the Constitutional and Legal Commission not only on this legislative project, on any one, that negative report, what happens next with the law, and we did not have agreed positions, because if the Constitutional and Legal Commission challenges the constitutional basis, it is a predominant view. So there's no agreement that this law can't go any further in the process. Now, they have shared visions, but here, I would ask Branka to interpret from the point of view of our Rules of Procedure what the procedure is. So, if we had clear views here, agreed views, then that wouldn't be a problem, but logically the question arises, if so, the Constitutional and Legal Commission has challenged the constitutional basis, so what happens next to the legal project, not only with this but also with other legal projects. Here, I ask Branko to say business, which opportunities are available to Parliament. Here you go, Branka.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20041	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is the question I expected today, since I spoke to the club president. I must say this, the parliamentary procedure has really come up with these two proposals, which are proposed by the three MPs' Club of Members of the SDP, which means it is an amendment to the Law on Taxation of Product and Services and the Law on Value Added Tax. They're in a regular exercise. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion to us on 16 this month, calling for Article 84(1). Home Rules of Procedure, which is negative. The Commission's report said that the Commission could not take a positive position and the vote was 3:3. So to make 4 decisions positive, there should have been a majority vote, so there should have been another MP who voted in favour. The situation is next in the current situation. At the last session, we had this very provision of interpretation of the provisions of Article 84(1). Rules of Procedure, which is precise. So when the chairman of the House receives the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, he does not say whether positive, whether negative, he is obliged to forward it to the competent commission. Such an interpretation, according to my proposal, was held at the College session, no consensus was reached, so Dom pleaded on this issue by calling for Article 22. Rules of Procedure. So all the questions that the House College has not reached a consensus on, the House states, and the House has not accepted a positive opinion, but the rest of us have meant that no further parliamentary procedure can continue, in fact we do not have a positive attitude in interpreting Article 84 point 1. Rules of Procedure. I am obliged to tell you this, at one of the previous sessions, we adopted a new Rules of Procedure on the work of the House. However, it cannot enter into force until certain provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and of the House of Peoples have been brought into line, which are common provisions. In this case, this is a common question. According to the provisions of the new Rules of Procedure, please just follow me a little bit, so we have in the previous phase the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and the opinion of the committee in charge. The opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission refers to the alignment with the Constitution and the legal system and the opinion of the committee responsible on the principles of law. After that, he goes on a reading at Dom. The Rules of Procedure have dealt with it this way, if the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission or the competent commission is negative. In this case, the House is then declared, with the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission or the competent commission which must be particularly reasoned. Unfortunately, I can only say that the Rules of Procedure have not yet entered into force and that I have not been in a position to suggest the application of that provision. I am asking for understanding, these two laws have also been sent to the Council of Ministers, who are in some way obliged to deliver their opinions to these laws under Article 139(a), since they are not legislators but MPs. So in this particular case, the House College has to sit down to see what to do in a situation like this so we don't block the parliamentary procedure on the proposals of these two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20042	Who's answering for a word? Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20043	I kind of understood the interpretation, etc. However, I think that we should discuss this, that is, another dimension related to this very strange situation when it comes to the fact that we have found for the law that there is a constitutional and legal basis and that for amendments and additions to the same law we have found that there is no. So I'm not talking about 5 procedures, dealing with the law in such a situation, I'm talking about this fact that I drew. Namely, we will definitely have to clear up the position of the Management Board of indirect taxation. Namely, a number of members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission under the Agreement between Entity Governments, which was established and opened by the process of establishing an indirect taxation system, interprets that the agreement guarantees them that none in the policy area, etc. Taxes, that no legal project will even be able to go into proceedings before the Management Board of the indirect taxation administration gives the green light. So, what I'm actually saying. People who voted against the constitutional and legal basis of amendments and additions have practically tried to ensure that before regular procedures, the Management Board in which the consensus is decided, and in which entities are represented, etc. Yes or no give the green light. So, I wanted this just for the full understanding of things, not saying who voted or what he voted for, etc. So we have a serious problem, and he is that the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board is in a position to put itself above this parliament, which is unacceptable. And we definitely need to clear that up. I can't speak on behalf of the people who have challenged the constitutional and legal basis but I think it was a motive that makes things the way they are now. Maybe there wouldn't be a box, if once again the Constitutional and Legal Commission, here's a break to meet, to consider this issue. Of course, it is up to the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission to assess whether we should meet again and assess this issue from this aspect of the position of the Central Committee of the Direct Taxation Authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20044	Thank you. A kolegica of Milićević, then Dr. Duraković, then President of the Constitutional-Law, Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20045	I would disagree, just as I disagree, I think this is an unsolved result in the Constitutional Commission, an unfortunate vote. It's actually an unfortunate result. The result is neither positive nor negative. Why did we fall into the trap of the way of interpretation, whether the Constitutional-Law Commission can dispute, collapse or cannot, will not, we have discussed, unfortunately did not pass the interpretation, the opinion that was here. I want to explain some things. I don't think so, Mr. Belkić. This is not what the board of directors did. This was done by 9 people from Parliament, or by 6 present members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. He didn't raise his hand either Đoli Dikson or Ljerka Marić, or Cenićka, but I don't know who these members are, but these people who were here. We last had amendments to the law that the agreement also envisions for legal projects. So it would rule out 105th change in tax policy doesn't change over the knee. But, legal projects that go regularly and in a shortened procedure, it is logical 6 to seek the opinion of the Council of Ministers, and he to get it from the Management Board or how he would already give an interpretation. We agreed on that, we voted last time on two amendments to the law, as I recall yours and Mr. Ćeman. And did they have a constitutional legal basis? Did they pass? But, no, I mean, this isn't the first time, so there's never been a constitutional and legal basis, so no one can deny the MP the right to treat any matter. We can only say it differently by voting, but we wouldn't really suggest that someone contests it, because no one can challenge the right of an MP or a club to submit a legal project, and it's our obligation to ask for an opinion and that we have an opinion. And that's what we think no one can step forward. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20046	Thank you. Dr. Duraković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20047	Unfortunately, I was not a member of the Ustqno-legal committee for objective reasons at the session of 15.9., and since the result was 3:3, so it was not denied or accepted, and I am of those who not only think but deeply believe that there is a constitutional legal basis because we are in a paradoxal situation. If the previous law had constitutional legal basis, why wouldn't the addition of that law. I mean, it's so er, paradoxical that I don't have words. I suggest, brother, here if it's been unsettled, let Ceman call in the first break of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and then it'll be 4:3.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20048	Thank you. Mr. Ćeman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20049	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The first finding that the Constitutional and Legal Committee has worked in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, at least as regards the formal aspect of a correct report and by interpreting the Rules of Procedure, has therefore concluded that in the results of 3:3 and against the existence of a constitutional basis, it is understood that what is proposed is not supported. In particular, there is a constitutional legal basis and that is so. Of course, it was only slightly above the half number, present, the total number of members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, it just shows that the Constitutional and Legal Commission is not sitting when this or that assumed majority can expect most support of the proposal, but all proposals are treated equally so this, and we don't know when who will be when they won't be. So, from that point of view, we really couldn't do anything else or delay the sessions, but then, or individual points, then it would always be quoted, so why don't we postpone another session or point that you might assume that if someone were present, you might be in favour or against. So, of course on the Commission, we did not consider this type of engineering to be carried out, although it is up to me to be very clear, and from a professional aspect and second, absolutely unacceptable and nonsensical, that the commission that needs to assess the existence of 7 constitutional and legal basis states that there is no constitutional and legal basis for amending the law and before that there is a basic text of the law, etc. But what's here is. As far as I'm concerned, if there's a view of this at home, the least problem is for me, of course, to call a session of the Commission. Of course, that would make one precedent because let's say, let's say here I don't speak at all about the content of the law, it would procedurally do the same precedent because one of my proposals of the law in one area was rejected because there wasn't enough at that point to support myself, but I simply accepted it. Of course, there is no suggestion behind this, that Mr Lagumdžija and others now accept this state of affairs, but I wanted to say this, I think it is completely unfounded to argue that if the Constitutional and Legal Commission, for any reason, in any proportion, has no positive view of the constitutional and legal basis, therefore there are no elements to stop the parliamentary procedure. It's my professional position, and I think Mrs. Secretary here is absolutely right. Please, because whether the law will be adopted or not will be accepted, including the aspect of constitutionality for the adoption of the law, should give the House's position. And it's completely wrong for those who think differently. Of course, in my view. Here we have another moment very important, and that is that in the procedures of this case, when it comes to the laws concerning fiscal policy, rate, etc. We also have a state-owned body, and here I am, under quotes, qualified to do so, which seems to be outside this House. However, we, too, have raised my hand for this one, the law but I claim that it is possible to reconcile and I have spoken it on the Constitutional and Legal Committee, these two rights, the right of MPs whom no one can take away from it to propose law and law in the ultimate case of the Administrative Board of indirect taxation, to give even a negative opinion on this proposal. The competent commission, as counterpart Milićević said, if I understood it well, would in this case be in a situation if the MP had proposed any law affecting the rates, affecting fiscal revenues, etc. The competent commission would request the opinion of the Management Board in the procedure. I even told a professional worker here in this assembly, who was probably taught me experiences at one point, almost suggested that she needed a commission meeting, that she was asking the board for legislation, or opinion. I said no need for a commission meeting, it is a simple administrative accusation, preparation for a session, president or secretary of the commission, delivery to the board of directors and say, the law and the contents have been delivered, please, since it is by all means your jurisdiction to give a positive or negative opinion on it, please give an opinion because the committee's session will be responsible then and then. And let the Governing Board of the Direct Taxation Board be elected, the remaining shall be adapted to the timing of this Parliament's work. Well, my Bog, they give a negative opinion, let it be debated or positive. It can't be an obligation, I'm sorry, I won't be long, but I want to help in this situation that we've artificially created, no matter what, when the content is discussed, the measure of the law. Therefore, there can be no position that I am as an MP or anyone else, obliged before that in the form of some thesis of the draft, to seek a positive position of the Management Board, and only then to propose the law. I mean, it's not legal thinking. It's not legal thinking, it's not logical thinking at all. In this regard, and I will end it, I think that the correctest thing is, I am not talking at all about the text, the content of the law or my colleague Lagumdžija, here in this case neither my colleague Belkić, the simplest solution, whether or not he was, with the right majority or not, with an 8 corresponding majority positive position, the Constitutional Commission on Constitutional Legal basis, he has to go to the competent commission and to this home and the House ultimately decides on it. And that would be the correct thing to do. I ask you, even those colleagues who had this, contrary opinion, to accept this kind of legal logic, because everything else would actually be, how can I say, a misunderstanding if you want both procedures and legal logic. We should think about it another way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20050	Thank you. Before I give my word to Dr Gligorić, here's to greet Dr Abdulah Nakaš, who is present at the session, after a brief or longer break, here's to great satisfaction, we last time made a decision to visit him, he visited us rather than us. dkle, I'm looking forward to seeing Dr. Nakaš attends the Council of Representatives actively. Dr. Gligorić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20051	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, the presidency, ladies and gentlemen, we've heard from the predecessors quite enough. It wouldn't be good if we were to expand this with what Mr. Ćeman was talking about, not to bother the House about it, but we could return it back to within the Constitutional and Legal Commission and try to find a certain solution when we talk about laws that didn't get it means support for constitutional legal basis. But let's get back to this particular case. sobzir the Constitutional and Legal Commission has made a decision that it does not have a positive opinion, I believe that after this correct explanation about the inside of the commission, the way we discussed the issue, with all its shades, that Mr Belkić has explained enough. I think that this question can be resolved to return to the Constitutional-Pave Commission and that we can do so today and that we can find the right solution. Basically, I resented it then, and now, with the SDP proposal, not thinking about this particular law, but about what you've all been saying. We should start with amendments to the Law on indirect taxation, where we simply humiliate an MP who has the right to raise a question and should receive constitutional legal basis and that is not disputed, which is what Col. Milićević spoke well of. But at the same time, we are in a situation where the Directorate for indirect taxation, as Mr Belkić said, rises above Parliament and in that case can answer us with a negative opinion, because we are entering fiscal policy because it is now their unimpeached right. In this way we have come into one situation so that we should think about changing it, that it is simply Parliament that is above management and that whenever it assesses that it should make some changes and supplement it, it should be done. We can have their opinion, but which is not binding, can be an expert opinion but not in the sense that they are rising above us and thus we are bringing Parliament's and MPs' true dignity into a humiliating position. That's amazing and outrageous. And that's why it would be good if we had gone with the amendments and the supplements, not to come into such a humiliating position as we all came with the SDP's proposal to amend and the 9th additions to this law, which refers to a specific matter. But without distinction, whether this particular thing is theirs or not, any other thing, we are coming into a situation that we simply have a body above us that can reject any proposal from this Parliament, no matter whether it's a club, whether it's an MP alone, whether it's a proposal from the Council of Minsitarians or any institution. And that's why we should take care, when we're going to change and supplement, to try and solve it, which obviously became a problem. That's what we pointed to, I personally pointed out, not to be immodest, when we talked about that basic law, but the congregation majority didn't want to hear it, it was normal, now the congregation's majority of the opposition joins, when we said it was one of the obscenities that shouldn't have passed the law. But let's, as responsible people, fix it and know who is in BiH when it comes to institutions in charge of what matter and who is this, simply above the institutions that are far below the BiH Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20052	Thank you. Before I give my word to Mr. Križanović, this thing is purely procedural. We need to be aware that we need to get out of a procedural situation. So, let's not slave to the content of the law now. So we have a problem interpreting. If the Constitutional and Legal Commission has a negative report on any legislative proposal, whether it goes forward in the procedure or is considered rejected, that's where we have a problem. So now that I'm not talking about the essence and content or indirect taxation of either this or that, the law is called xy. I agree with the SDP's proposal, but when I lead Parliament, I must respect the procedure. And there can be no exception to this law, no matter what is important and complex, and the other is irrelevant. Otherwise, Parliament wouldn't look like anything. So, we can get out of this now, we can discuss 10 days of procedure, give an interpretation. And the interpretation therefore, we don't even have the College had consent and the Dom didn't have consent. And now I'm surprised that MPs who had no consent tell a different story. So, I think, I'm standing in that position, I'm standing, if constitutionally-ustavno-pravni has a negative, it seems to me at least, I'm not a lawyer, I'm a negative attitude about some law, that he's finished his story in Parliament. Others think they should go to the competent commission to give Parliament a second word. So there's a problem with interpretation. Here, I'd like to pray that we're just finishing up because we're going to have to finally give it back, see how we get out of this procedure, not essentially, when it comes to the law. Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20053	I thank Mr. Chairman, that's exactly what I was about to say that we unnecessarily opened a debate on the very law on the position of the Directorate for indirect taxation in the legal system, etc. So, our intention was to ask a question, to get it out of this, out of this blockade. We're right to warn you, for 12 days, there's nothing going on with the commission's position. We have two options, if the House is assessed to be on the agenda in such cases as the Constitutional and Legal Commission reports, we insist that it be on the agenda today, because all the conditions are met. If the House determines on this issue that there are no obstacles, that with such a report it goes to the competent commission, we consider it quite rational that the College undertakes to do so tomorrow and to refer to the competent commission that we do not waste time. That's what this is about. It's a matter of unnecessary time being lost and we're going to be in a position, what my colleague Lagumdžij was saying, that in the end, we're going to find an argument to reject this bill on the grounds that we don't have any more time for it. Here, please, my suggestion is so clear. To determine ourselves, if we are to determine ourselves according to this as the House, we should define ourselves as the House, in this opinion, or the House declares that this should be referred to the committee of directors on an urgent basis today.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20054	Mr. Križanović, I get it, but...
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20055	If the House please, if the House is determined so that the House should be determined on the committee's report, we demand that it be on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20056	Please, but we have to do business, I understand absolutely. So I'm looking... for a position. If the Constitutional and Legal Commission report is negative, it is not forwarded to the House for a statement, business. So we have a defect in the Rules of Procedure. The new Rules of Procedure have dealt with it positively. So the new Rules of Procedure absolutely solved this dilemma, which other details need to be agreed with the House of Nations, but there is no such possibility in this Rules of Procedure. Well, here, we're looking for a possibility but she's got to be a businessman. Mr. Ćeman, replica or what? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20057	Please, you may in some way not understand the replica, but fellow Gligorić has suggested and someone else is, if you need to go back to the Commission. I don't mind going back to the Commission, but I have an important reason why it wouldn't be good to go back to the Commission. So it's not about understanding the principles, the amendments adopted, or you know the situation when it comes back, asking for an additional report. This is a matter of procedural nature. The College is authorized to interpret the Rules of Procedure, I think that the best way out of this is for you gentlemen in the College to accept that in this case, in a case like this when the Constitutional Commission's negative position, was needed by the majority, was as a result of the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure because it results in such an attitude, that it simply goes forward in the procedure and that the aspect of the committee responsible in the report will, when this one comes to the Commission, be mentioned and treated. To return to the Commission now, although I say, I will not, nor have the right to refuse, even if it is the position of this House, means to make a precedent, whenever someone estimates that at that moment there was not 11 enough of those who would be willing or opposed, that they would then return to any committee, gentlemen not only to the constitutional one, it is a very dangerous precedent. I speak purely from a formal legal point of view. And I don't treat the content of any law. So I suggest to you as a College, give it to you if you can agree, I suppose, or this home to accept a legal position by which when the Constitutional and Legal Committee's negative position on constitutional basis is, it still goes further into the procedure, of course, the competent commission and the House when considering the law in the first and second readings, it takes care of all of this and will accept it or not accept it as a competent home. I think that's the only legal right logic, and so I'm asking my colleague Gligorić, if he really thought it was going to the Commission, I'm not for it because it would create unnecessary precedents that would not contribute to the efficiency of work, not just the Constitutional and Legal Commission, but any other.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20058	I thank and pray colleagues who appear 2-3 times that, if I may, we do not repeat the debate. So the procedural thing is, it's not content. kolega Džaferović, Živković, Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20059	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I don't think we should tie this particular case to our disagreement on the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure in case the report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission is negative for one simple reason. For the VAT Act, the Constitutional and Legal Commission gave constitutional basis. This house has confirmed this constitutional basis and it is perfectly logical and normal to and for the amendments to this law to the constitutional basis. It is a perfectly logical thing, and I ask that this matter be specifically recorded and that we see this, which are members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission who have not given constitutional basis for amending the law for which the former Constitutional and Legal Commission has established and Parliament has confirmed this basis. And that's how I ask that question. I would separate this from this situation that we have and because of this matter, since for me the constitutional and legal basis is undeniable. If unsustainable for basics, the original text is also undeniable for changes and additions. I suppose it is some logic that today Parliament, under the precepts, will therefore unplug this thing by ordering the competent commission to continue its work and to move towards Parliament. We will have to deal with this issue, so the VAT issue once again here in Parliament, in my opinion, before the law comes into force, will have to be dealt with because of those social programmes we said we would do with VAT. I want to see if the social programmes for VAT have been presented to the public until the start of the VAT application or if there will be any other reaction. And that is why I consider this a very important issue and I think that we should put this off in Parliament today. That's it, thank you. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20060	I thank my colleague Džaferović, but I have to intervene. I don't think it's appropriate to open an investigation into who's on the Constitutional-Pave Commission how he voted. I don't think we should send that kind of message from these places in particular. The Constitutional and Legal Commission is an important commission, people can decide the way they see the problem and I don't think that amendments to the law can't be out of the constitutional. I'm not a lawyer, but no one can explain to me that changing the law can't be out there, how can it not be? The law may be constitutional but the request for change may be out of the constitution. That's why it's the Constitutional Legal Commission, so it's not about this law and I'm not about to investigate whether constitutionally legal, actually, we're counting who's for, who's against. I don't think it's, it's not us, it doesn't look like it's democratic in the extreme, but here, I don't think my colleague Džaferović meant it in this sense in which I'm making the intervention. So, colleague Živković, then Avdić. Can I ask Dr Lagumdžija after you said we should listen to Živković and Avdić? But to try and find a way out of this, not to open it, so we're not talking about the essence of the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20061	Gentlemen, as far as I understand the situation and the Rules of Procedure, although it is unclear in its parts, that is why we have done its amendment, the Constitutional and Legal Commission is one of the committees of this House and cannot be treated differently from the other committees and I think they are at the same level, equal. If we look at this side, and we see that this commission is only part of this home, then every report, even if it was negative, as we have put the commission reports here on the House and the House's statement according to these reports, we should do the same thing with the Constitutional Legal Commission report, if we equally interpret that each commission in this House is equal. For this reason, I suggest that this be the point of the agenda, that we get this commission's report and that the House give the final word on that report, whether it returns it, whether it doesn't return it and see what we do next with that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20062	Thank you. But, just a few dear colleagues, return the picture back to the two parliaments when we pleaded. If Parliament wanted those of you who are discussing getting out of this link, they wouldn't have found themselves in it. You can't vote against it and now say it could've been like this. That's all I'm warning you about. So dom had a chance to plead. He pleaded, and he did not achieve consent, for he was part of the MPs who today debated that he could and otherwise did not allow it. So I have my own attitude and he's the same, he hasn't changed. So, Dr. Avdić, Dr. Lagumdžija. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20063	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests. I think it's formal-legal here and according to the Rules of Procedure, the situation is quite clear. This house has already been declared as a whole and no one has been against the new Rules of Procedure. He pleaded to the principle of working at home. The basic principle of working at home is the following, and that is that there is no House of Representatives commission that can stop the law from the preliminary procedure before it comes to the House. So there's no commission. In this context, the Constitutional and Legal Commission cannot stop the law in its procedure until it comes to the House. Which means we've come to terms with it unanimously. We once had a conclusion, so we voted once again to accept this way of procedure which is only logical and justified, which means the situation is legally clear. The Constitutional and Legal Commission can have its own opinion, how not to, go to the competent commission and simply aspolutical process cannot be blocked or stopped. So that's so logical, it really doesn't make sense to discipline the House that it once again declares whether we want this principle or not. We, Mr. Chairman, have declared this principle, discussed it for a year on a commission that was one of the fundamental principles and prevailed on the opinion, which dom supported, that simply the Constitutional and Legal Commission cannot be a place where the law can be stopped. And in that context, the Constitutional and Legal Commission may have an opinion, but the law goes to the House's plea. So I support, argue, what the Secretary of the House said and suggested. So, I propose that the law goes with the Constitutional-Staff Commission to the competent commission and that the process is unblocked and, in this context, harmonizes this process with another note, people, social programs should already be considered and adopted, operationalized by entities and the Dricta Brcko. In this context, we do not have enough time for social programmes, the only chance is to legally intervene and smooth the consequences of introducing a 1 January VAT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20064	My colleague, Dr. Avdić, I agree with you, but the Rules of Procedure was adopted when they adopted him both at home in the same text. No, we're obliged to apply the old Rules of Procedure. But here I'm trying to look for an active way out, to get the College to agree, it seems to me that we have the consent of Mr. Šefik and Martin, that this report by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, so that in the House of Peoples until we agree to that, forward to the competent commission a report like that. So here's our agreement in the College and to shorten today's painful debate, we also have important issues left, and if I can help Dr. Lagumdžija, here's our agreement to forward the report to the Constitutional-Statistic Commission. That would end this debate procedurally and I must remind you to help me, in application of the existing Rules of Procedure, until a new one is published in the Official Messenger. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20065	Mr. Chairman, we're in transition.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20066	Well, I understand everything, but don't let us break down in transition the vessel where the game takes place, that's the point. Is there a need for Dr. Lagumdžija? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20067	Mr. Chairman, first of all, I thank you for opening the opportunity to talk about this like this because we now see after an hour that we haven't opened this question. We didn't open this question. This proposal of ours, two laws would stand nowhere. Please, he wouldn't go anywhere. And that's why I would ask you, and that's why I asked you before we move to the agenda, so that if we were to ask for a change of agenda, that you would follow what you said, to adopt a working conclusion that is of a nature temporary while this, which is derived from the spirit of our work and the future Rules of Procedure that we have accepted, that this law be referred not to a report by the Constitutional-Law Commission, but to the laws to be directed by the report to the committee responsible. And that's why I'm saying, Mr. Chairman, what you just heard from Branka, that this was sent to the Council of Ministers. She's got a letter, and I'm sorry that Ljilje doesn't have any, but she did, and Ljilja got a letter from the minister 10 days ago, in which the minister says to her as president of the Commission, wait, you can't do anything until we give her an opinion, until the board gives her an opinion. And then he says, "We're on our way to New York, we're not gonna be here for 10 days." So, you see what this is about, Mr. Chairman. I responsibly argue that this last month on stage in this country, the Council of Ministers' conspiracy, the Directorate for indirect taxation and parts of the international community has been organised, to stop the amendment of the VAT law and to stop everything from going to 17% on 1 January. I say responsibly, an organized conspiracy. The Council of Ministers must not go before this parliament and say, I must have a 17% VAT law and do not allow anything. And they've procedurally entertained us here. The people who listened to us have nothing to do with what we talked about. We barely caught what we were talking about, so we started talking, counting who was on the board, for which reasons, for and against. It's a matter of a month's standing and if we hadn't started this, this would still be between the Constitutional and Legal Commission on Finance, the Management Board, the Council of Ministers and the College. And then, as a respected gentleman from the international community who twists his hand yesterday would have told us, it looks like he's got a good twist on the Council of Ministers' hand, and you don't have time to change the VAT bill if you don't change it now. And that's what we want to be told in December so this comes to the agenda, because you're against VAT, do you want the whole system to fall, do you want to make this go away, do you want the VAT to be introduced on 1 January 2007. So that's what this is about. I am also sorry that there is no Council of Ministers chairman, I will ask him to answer why he conspired against us as Parliament as representatives of the international community to introduce VAT on 1 January 2006 with a paw of 17%. We're not going to fall with our paws. No way. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20068	Thank you, Dr. President. Lagumji. I, when it comes to VAT, have, of course, the same logic about the differentiated rate, but I say again we have to do business. So we solved the procedurally this problem. Here is the working conclusion that it is binding, so the Constitutional and Legal Commission should pass the report, so the report to the committee responsible, the report from the committee responsible with the law and the Constitutional and Legal Commission will be held at the next session. Here, please, be the conclusion so at the first next session. Let's vote for a conclusion. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So when it passes. How long it takes for the day to pass.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20069	30 days is the deadline of
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20070	I think it's a lot of 30 days to cut short. Well, look, today we're having a debate that this is urgent and that, so what kind of report to be again is less important to me now. But since we're having a discussion about the procedure, if it takes a month, we're going to be in a situation where the person who suggests it's too late. Now we from the College can say okay, let's cut back. And it could happen that the first one will be on Friday, related to the Defense Act, etc. So on the first one, since this regular and the next one will be regular. So there's a chance that by October 15th we have two sessions. So on that other one. If it doesn't mean the next one. Do we understand each other? By October 15th. Here's what we can accept. Prepare to vote. It's all right. No, no, we didn't let us plead. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - So for 30, no one against, two abstentions. I therefore conclude that we have adopted the conclusion that the Constitutional and Legal Commission shall pass the report with the law, the laws of the SDP and that by 15 October we have a debate and report at the meeting of the Representative Council. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, there was no further request to amend the agenda. I must inform that there were requests under article 105, and I thank the MPs who had understanding, and they had useful suggestions such as Mrs Dušanka Majkić. I personally asked that the agenda item be at the next session, because it is the procedure of Article 105. 16 Dama and gentlemen, I hereby conclude the debate and conclude that we have adopted the next agenda. The adoption of the minutes from the 65th session of the House of Representatives, 2. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law on the indirect taxation procedure under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law on the mandatory collection of indirect taxes in Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Povnika, 5. The request of MP Muhamed Moranjkić to consider the draft law supplementing the Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 6. The request of Ambassador Muhamed Moranjkić to consider Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax by Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 7. Proposal for a Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, First Reading, 8. Proposal for a Law on the Armed Forces Service in Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading, 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading, 10. Proposal for a resolution on strategic definitions in Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence system, proposed by Mr. Milorad Živković, 11. Giving consent to ratification (a) of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Belarus on the promotion and protection of investments, (b) The Agreement on Defence Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro, (c) the Trade Agreement of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Belarus. Ladies and gentlemen, we have adopted the agenda and we are moving to the first item of the agenda Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes from the 65th session of the House of Representatives I open the debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now. So I find that we unanimously with 32 votes to adopt the minutes from the 65th session of the House of Representatives. 17 Moving to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad2. MPs' questions and answers This time we only received answers to Izet Hadžić's question, set at the 62nd session of this house. Please, before I ask if Mr. Hadžić would like to comment, I would like to draw attention to the fact that perhaps today and not having to spend an hour on questions, because they remain much stronger points of the agenda waiting for us. Of course, I'd appreciate it if there was any appreciation for this proposal. I'm asking Mr. Hadžić if he's happy with the answer. Yes, it is. Thank you. Here's a chance to ask new questions. Dr. Crescent. Živković, Ljiljana Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20071	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I understand the need for parliamentary issues to be shortened today, in practice, however, since it is urgent, I would ask if someone could come from the Ministry of Civil Affairs during the session and tell us what is going on with the application of Bosnia and Herzegovina towards a global field of funds to fight AIDS and tuberculosis. The funds are $14.5 million. The Commission needs a global fund in Strasbourg by the end of this month to respond to our application, however, we went and made a meeting at the Ministry of Civil Affairs and we are told that there are still no formal reasons for this application. Namely, the signatories who did not sign the application. The important thing will be the more important thing, we lose 14.5 million donations for formal reasons. If no one from the Ministry of Civil Affairs comes to answer because this is an urgent matter, we only have one more week, then I ask the House to adopt this conclusion on this issue, to be in charge of the Council of Ministers to take all necessary actions to meet the formal conditions for submitting an application to the Global Fund for Donation of HIV/ADS and TBC funds by 30/09/2005. We need to get serious. Last year, we failed that app. This year, if we don't get those funds, we won't be able to do business in this country about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20072	I thank my colleague Živković. As far as I can tell, there's no one from the Council of Ministers. I don't think we should expect it, but I don't mind adopting this conclusion exactly as it is. I think it can only benefit, it can't harm the Council of Ministers to make sure that it ends up to the satisfaction of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, 18, don't ask them to come, because if they don't come, we're wasting our time. Give us a proposal for a working conclusion. She asked for a colleague of Milićević's word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20073	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. My question is to the College and the sekretarijat. It's that we're witnessing that in this parking lot here between college and this. There's a lot of anxiety and traffic for car parking, and here seems to be a settled practice, say colleagues that it's been a car school for tens of years, training people in a parking lot that is so tight that the last days now and trucks I think are parked with the designation "L". So here in our parking lot these streets that are so anxious are training drivers for parking and cars and trucks. Please ask whether we need to adopt one conclusion, or the Secretariat, to simply prohibit this part of where the parking lot goes to go to those who exactly with training. You can see it every day, you do it all the time. That's one initiative for you as chairman, please let's put it in some way. It's possible to ban it. There's no room. They do it all the time.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20074	Thank you. I beg you, we understand the good question, let us study this problem. Of course, the problem is to see if we can finish it without conclusions. So let's see what, enough.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20075	...we're making some kind of decision that would sign a ban on these.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20076	So here's the order for the sekretarijat and the Joint Service to learn how and how you can decide not to draw a conclusion. It's much worse to bring it without anyone respecting it. It's to see how formally legal. We realized there was a problem, to be an initiative. Here's the record, and we'll treat each initiative with respect, so here's this one. Mr. Ćeman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20077	A very short question to the Home College, and the answer can be right away, can be oral, written, later on is some concrete activity. 19 From conversations that I had on various occasions with fellow parliamentarians from other countries, they were also interested in why the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina is deafening initiatives to establish joint committees or some bodies, interparliamentary co-operation groups, the development of friendly ties, co-operation, etc. It's not about those official contacts of leaders, etc. So is the College in this direction what it was doing, that is, when this second home will form groups for co-operation with other parliaments?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20078	Thank you. But I would ask you to avoid the questions of the College. You know, I think they're losing parliamentary matters of meaning. It's earlier in office and it wasn't, but here it is. You know, get to know each other like I do. When it came to this initiative that this house numbers 42 MPs, if we formed all groups of friendships, people would be in 10 commissions not one day in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and they should finish the job. So, other changes are expected that will allow us to form commissions, to respond to this task. Probably at this point, unfortunately, we can't. And so please don't ask the College a question. We're here to do a job in terms of technical preparation if there's any you can come into the cabinet all the time, you can call by phone if there's a problem, but here's dr. Azra Hadžiahmetović, she asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20079	I thank my colleague Špirić, but I will ask the College a question. Reading a part of the record and me when I was just about to adopt the minutes, I didn't answer for the discussion, because it was a style formula that I considered less important. Comrade Špirić, I'm speaking to the College. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20080	Okay. You got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20081	I'm sorry, I'm reading part of the record from last session on questions, etc. It says that Azra Hadžiahmetović, with the rest, stressed that a big deal has happened in BiH, is not known which and how the consequences will follow and that it would be good to discuss this issue in Parliament, which in communication with the Council of Ministers and Office of the High Representatives is unknown. 20 Here it is said that the chairman, Špirić, said the initiative should be decided by the College in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and will have an active relationship in this regard. This formulation you know, it's really a stylish arrangement and clarification thing. I would like to mention that I launched last time an initiative concerning the outcome of negotiations and voting in the Republika Srpska Assembly on police reform, to take place at the first next session. Today, the Council of Ministers, or, or co-operation with the OHR, has announced to this Parliament, in some way, to open the debate on the issue and all the consequences that I can already speak of have followed. Last time I suggested that probably, I want to ask what this means, or what the College's response is, since it was about the first next session. Second, what does it mean that the College will have an active relationship? Do you have any answers? And the third one is to start the initiative again, that is, to repeat that this debate is being held at the first next session. I believe that this parliament, the state parliament, cannot act as if nothing is happening in the BiH state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20082	I thank my colleague Hadžiahmetović. I'm sure when I say we're going to have an active relationship, we had it, here this morning we had a session of the College, so in the first session, we discussed it, and I'm telling you what the position of the College is. Afterwards, I spoke to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Adnan Terzić, and I think that the discussions on police reform still take place, that we should allow, to create an atmosphere to get a definitive report on whether the matter has worked out, or whether we in the state parliament have failed in such a way to try to create political dialogue, not to call Adnan Terzić here to say it is your fault, that we get answers like that and that, and we appreciated in the College that we should leave room to see how this definitely ends. I talked to everyone when we were on the road and it seems to me that I got a silent consent so that maybe it could be a wise answer to your set initiative. If you're not, then if you're staying on it, then I should be in the opposition to call Adnan Terzić today and sit here and talk for an hour and get into political controversy, but we won't solve it, we won't solve the problem. So, here, so we had at the College, we had a conversation with Mr. Terzić, and he thinks we need to let some more time go to see that there could be a Merit discussion here about the police reform process.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20083	Comrade Špirić, it's true that we talked about it a few days ago, but I called here for the formulas in the record. 21 Secondly, I appreciate that it may be necessary to inform Parliament and what I have now heard from you can be considered an official response to my initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20084	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20085	I remain in this again, given the specific weight, I repeat the outcome of the vote in the Republika Srpska Assembly. I appreciate the need for this parliament to be determined, even if I was discussing the direction you were talking about, that is to say, with the chairman of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20086	Yes, but counterpart Hadžiahmetović is not a parliamentary question. It's an initiative for the agenda against which I have nothing, I will support you for now and vote for it. So don't just say nothing to each other. And here, when I look at the record, if the record is adopted, we can't go back to the previous point. This was your answer to the Beriz discussion. Yes, yes, the chairman writes here, so the questions asked by Beriz Belkić reminded Azra Hadžiahmetović of the comment. So he talked about everything, and then you called and said, among other things, that there was a big thing happening in BiH. So this isn't your previous discussion that was the introduction you were talking about. So here's when I read that's page 5 if you do, if you have an objection. Right? Dr. Crescent. Azra Hadžiahmetović, therefore, said after Beriz's discussion, that a big thing had happened in BiH and that the consequences would surely follow, etc. So in that sense. This is not the original discussion of you first after which Mr. Belkić discussed, as I recall. But I don't mind, so when there's a story about the record that you're looking for corrections in the record. The record's been adopted. I don't think there's been a material error. That we don't return the record now. If I may ask.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20087	...that I didn't report for the record, but there really is this finding that can't be seen what it's about. I will remind you, I have launched an initiative in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20088	Okay. Thank you very much. He answered the word Mr. Lozančić. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20089	Thank you. I must also ask the College here once again to try to provide us with representatives of the Council of Ministers at this point, because oral answers would reduce both deadlines and correspondence and many ambiguities that we receive in writing. He can ask for some questions, too. I think there is room for the Council of Ministers to be in Parliament once every 15 days, or a minister, or a deputy, or an assistant who could give certain oral answers, so we would sort of shorten the waiting for answers. And my question is about production again. Namely, I personally asked the question I intend to ask a few months ago, and I got an answer that I didn't comment on, but in response, I got what I mentioned in the introduction. It means that it's the entity's jurisdiction, that the Council of Ministers has no influence on the purpose of production and simply what I've pointed out in the introduction I've also received in response. Today I want to ask a question about what I found that in 2003 and 2004, we have such and such exports of military equipment, i.e. mostly fire and artillery ammunition, and in the space of the Federation alone, we have 9-10 factories which are partly devastated, which have been managed by someone formerly at the Ministry of Defense, today are in energy and mining that we welcome, because they need the needs of the Ministry of Defence to produce them, and in the future there is no need to produce as much capacity as we have in both entities for the state military, which will be smaller and operational, so I am interested: - what does the Council of Ministers plan? Is he planning to have some co-ordinated role to play, that is to say, to create the current most technologically outdated and war-defended and economic society for the purpose of production, in which they could employ a part of the workforce that was engaged in the formerly dedicated industry? - And I'm also interested in who manages and what is planned with capacities that aren't currently in use, but belong to the military industry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20090	Thank you. I would only ask, since the College, or the chairman here, must be because it presides that what you're thinking of setting up to the Council of Ministers don't turn us into the Council of Ministers, and clubs must have so much power that ministers from their ranks provide here. I started different initiatives for this, and I didn't find any support. So, for nothing, you make us bound. We can't physically bring people in. So I can make them call them every time neatly, conversationally, essential points. It's your relationship, ladies and gentlemen, it's people's relationship to what we do, and they're representatives of different parties that make most or opposition less important. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20091	You can ask for one more of them, meaning that at only the second point of the parliamentary questions and answers he will be a representative of the Council of Ministers. For 50% of the questions, we could get oral answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20092	We'll look for everything, but I think we need to make the new rules of procedure more productive, otherwise he's going to lose his sense. But, well, we want to spend an hour, and in that, it's out of my league. Mrs. Majkić Dušanka, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20093	Dear Chairman, whatever you think is wrong to ask the Kolegijum of the dom and the sekretarijat, I think sometimes there is a need for it and there are dilemmas that exist with the MPs and that someone should answer them. I might not have even initiated this question, no matter how aware I am of this problem that a foreign citizen from Sweden himself did not ask that question here to ask the College. It is certain that the web presentation at www.parliament.ba is a very important place visited by a large number of citizens and not only the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also people from abroad. This presentation should introduce ourselves both in the country and out of the country and, based on this presentation, the media and the public judge on our work,...legislative procedure and our decisions regarding the various laws we make. As far as I'm concerned, I'd like to ask the Kolegijuma a few questions. - How is it possible that Parliament's website is so unscheduled that the latest current event in the section relating to the House of Representatives took place a year ago and this is 21.10.2004? - How is it possible that several more important dates were all dated from 2004? - How is it possible, as chairman of the House of Representatives, to mention Mr. Džaferović, on the other hand Mr. Raguž, and that the current chairman, on the Internet, is still chairing the home? - How is it possible, as members of the House of Representatives committee, to be led by people who are not members of Parliament long ago, not to talk about the English version of the website? - Who is responsible and who cares about holding a web presentation of the Parliamentary Assembly? Who does that and at what price? 24 - And when will a systematic solution be made to the issue of regular web update and when will it begin to look like similar web presentations of parliaments from our environment? I believe this is of interest to Bosnia and Herzegovina and I expect that the Kolegijum will not only answer the questions asked but also take measures to remove the perceived weaknesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20094	Thank you. So in order not to pretend that he's only setting up the College, I'd be begging because I'm available to everyone, in the morning, in the afternoon, by 1 o'clock, for anything that looks like he can be removed, you can call me and come to the office. And it's illogical whenever someone asks you a question publicly. So we can do something in daily communication, I agree that these are current things, but we will solve some problems when we fill the Secretariat in the Parliamentary Assembly by systematization. When we work at full capacity. It's a problem that we don't have anyone who can update the website every day. And here's thank you, therefore, for these suggestions, but it seems to me that there are many things that we can do in direct communication without question from parking, website or Secretariat, etc. If we turn this into a question, I will, or we from the College of you all, the hour of Parliament, loses its meaning. Next, she answered the word, and then she answered the words of her colleague Filip Andrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20095	I thank Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues, MPs, a few months ago I sent an initiative to beat up prisoners in Zenica prison to our Human Rights Commission, and I expected more concrete moves in response. I know that the Commission formed under a commission that went, visited those people in prison. However, the Komsiija's official information has neither arrived in response nor in Parliament, so I wonder when it will be done, or why are they waiting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20096	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. Ladies and gentlemen, we've exhausted the second point, and Mara Perkanović, I apologize. I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20097	...information to Mr. Andrić. The subcommittee has done its part of the job. So we have drafted a report that will be held at the next session of the Commission on Human Rights, which will be scheduled by Mr Jahić as a item of the agenda where the Commission will take its position and forward, I hope a satisfactory answer to Mr Filip Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20098	I thank my colleague Perkanović for his reply. There are no further reports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20099	I just wanted to answer, because they're saying in my name what I'm going to call. Nothing I won't know you know as they say. In fact, we answered Mr. Filip Andrić's parliamentary question a month ago and responded to the performance of one of the family members of these prisoners. Why didn't it get to the MPs, I really don't get it. So, for more than a month we've done that job. And also, parallel to this job we've launched one activity, a tour of all criminal correctional institutions, prisons, etc. in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so we have formed three groups where we visit one 9-10 prisons and later we will report on respect for the human rights of prisoners, conditions, etc. So it's another job that's also connected to this. So as far as this job is concerned, Mr. Andrić's parliamentary question, and as far as the play goes, we did it a long time ago. Why didn't it come to you, I really don't get it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20100	Just a little bit, please. No, these are parliamentary questions, no replicas. Could be the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20101	An explanation. Since I was a member of the subcommittee that went on a tour of the KPZ Zenica and since it had been violated within the commission procedure, we asked that the members of the subcommittee make up the report, because that report that was sent did not respect the procedure within the commission, which means that the members of the subcommittee who were on the tour of Zenica did not make up their own report on which basis the Commission would plead and forward the answers to Mr Filip Andrić. Therefore, the Commission is obliged to put that agenda item on the agenda and to adopt at the next session following the conclusion of the previous session, of course, a conclusion is drawn on the basis of the report drawn up by the subcommittee.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20102	Thank you very much. I am asking you only to make sure that not the banality that we are not bringing these issues to the banality that parliamentarians are asking their committees a public 26 parliamentary question. Instead of sitting in Parliament to discuss the problem, to solve it, etc. So it loses the sense of what we're doing to ask each other a question when the public is following. So we're not able to provide a question for those addresses that can measure the problem. That's why MPs, I don't mind, you can ask whatever you want to the College, I'll answer what I can and do what I can, but let's not turn this hour into something that's objectively not supposed to be. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm finalizing a point of parliamentary question. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. Uh, excuse me, excuse me. We have Mr. Živković's conclusion that the moment he said he stopped interested in the conclusion. But I'm obliged to read it and vote. - It is up to the Council of Ministers to take all necessary actions to meet the formal conditions for submitting an application to the Global Fund for Donation of HIV AIDS and TBC funds by 30/09/2005. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Thank you. - for 24. No one against, no one abstention. This conclusion was adopted, so as to draw attention to the services that follow this work that when we have a working conclusion that we will vote on, so that I will not be stuck here in reading, please, that conclusion is two minutes, or a minute so that we can work neatly here. There's no need to take that conclusion and bring us here, finely knock and finely arrange to know what we voted on. Thank you very much. We're moving to the third item of the Ad.3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law on the indirect taxation procedure under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. On 7 December, the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers delivered the proposal to Parliament on the indirect taxation procedure with the request for an emergency procedure under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. The proposal for this law was sent to you on 9 September. I am opening a debate on an emergency procedure request, as I must say that I spoke to the Council of Ministers chairman, and I expected him here, because in an interview with representatives of clubs and MPs who had a discussion with Mr Dikson, 27 I have created the impression that it is possible here to achieve a mood in the procedure of Article 104 in order to make adjustments to the law and that he would be of interest to Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. the principle of agreement of the chairman that this does not make him a problem and that the Council of Ministers will seek this procedure. Since no one's here, we can't ask for a change of procedure on behalf of the promoter. I'm sorry. All we can do is take a break and ask if she can. A five-minute break, whether or not the Council of Ministers, because I was promised that they would seek the procedure of Article 104, because it would be a shame not to go through procedure today, let's say 105 goes into regular procedure, then we'll break all the deadlines we can, and we'll want to do the best possible thing to do to harm this country. So, here you go, Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20103	I think Mrs. Marić sent a letter to the commission where she said she would be absent, I think she's in America, but it's necessary to consult and that it's very acceptable here to actually and desirable to go 104.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20104	Here's a break for 10 minutes. If necessary for consultations with the Council of Ministers. I'll call the chairman. He promised he'd be there. I suppose there are some obligations, but here's what I'm going to try to do for both this law and the next law because it's a matter of procedure. We're going back to work. [[PAUZA]] I'd like to pray in the future to take advantage of the time we've made available to stay out of the O.R. We are pleased to have the chairman of the Council of Ministers. So we are on the third item of the agenda, that is - The request of the Council of Ministers of BiH to consider the Proposal for a Law on the indirect taxation procedure under emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. I have already said that I have spoken with the presidents of clubs and MPs and that there have been talks with the representative of the Management Board for indirect taxation, Mr Dikson here in Parliament. I also spoke with the chairman, Mr. Terzić, whom I welcome and who is present at this session, and we are unfortunately unable to change the procedure required by the Council of Ministers. Only the Council of Ministers may request a shortened procedure of Article 104. In that case, we in the College have the mood to shorten the procedure so that both homes respect the deadlines that by the end of October we have adopted these two legislative projects and here I give my word to the chairman, Mr. Terzić, to say whether the Council of Ministers remains in the procedure of Article 105 or insists on the procedure, or whether it wants Article 104. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20105	The Honorable Chairman-in-Office of the ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I have made findings with members of the Council of Ministers that I could have come to. We agree to change the procedure and request for these laws by 104 to send them to a shortened procedure. The reason we asked for it was an emergency requested by the Directorate for indirect taxation. Since Mr. Dikson in a conversation with the commission and the home chairman accepted that we could go to 104. Then the Council of Ministers has no reason to ignore such a request, and on behalf of the Council of Ministers, I suggest that these laws go according to a shortened procedure. So one hundred and fifty-five. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20106	One hundred and
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20107	One hundred and
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20108	I thank the chairman, Mr. Terzić. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20109	There was a special choice, and surely we will support this proposal, or I will agree with this fact. However, one fundamental question opens to me, and I would like to send a message to the Council of Ministers to the Ministry of Resort, etc. They simply have to take responsibility for running the process, i.e. leading the reform. These reforms I'm talking about, so the adoption of an indirect taxation system. They must be free from the dictatorship of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board and become independent in the management of the reform. That's the point. This is about implementing laws and I have some objections. There may be some confusion, etc., but it is the implementing laws that are part of the establishment of the system. No Niko is against, I'm sure, even those who practically mix a few things, differentiated rates and a system of indirect taxation, etc. We chose to be 1.6. I'm afraid, Mr. Terzić, to me slowly, accepting the prolonging of one, so prolonging another, etc. I'm afraid if we're 1.6, 1.1, we're going to shave fully ready to establish a system. The system needs to be established and we all need to make a contribution to that. So here's what I needed to say and tell the Council of Ministers that it has to be practically managed and managed by the reform chamber, and even for this one, regardless of the position of the Board of Directors for indirect taxation. So the Resolute Ministry along with the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20110	I thank my colleague, Belkić. We will eventually, after these two points, adopt one working conclusion that does not break the deadlines. So we as Parliament must have responsibility for that part of the legislative activity that monitors the establishment of an indirect taxation system. So, who's still answering for the word? Mr. Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20111	Thank you. I'd like to say something very briefly on the trail of what Mr. Belkić was saying before me. In fact, here we find ourselves very happy that the Council of Ministers has changed its request for these two legislative proposals to be considered by procedure 104. You see, it is really one thing to say very, slightly incorrectly approach to this Parliament. We are being referred to two serious legislative proposals of a very complex substance for resembling, with a request for consideration under procedure 105. And you see, just to remind you of Article 20. The law on the indirect taxation system where it is said to be - the Committee may launch draft legislative rules and amendments to the legal rules in the area of indirect taxation for the submission of the Council of Ministers to the Committee on Budgetary Affairs of the Federation, Republika Srpska and the Assembly of the District and if it is assessed by the Parliament of the Federation, the National Assembly of Republika Srpska and the Assembly of the District are given the opportunity to make such legal comments before they are submitted to the Council of Ministers, and any comments and suggestions on the various legislative proposals, the amendments to the legislative rules must be submitted to the Committee within 15 days. So here is a bill of law that leaves no opportunity for anyone to be seen by the competent authorities or by our Finance and Budget Committee. I mean, it's a good thing there's been this change in the procedure, but I'd also be inclined to those opinions and some working conclusion that things like this really aren't happening to us and that we have to work, to take breaks and sessions to get to the right procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20112	I thank my colleague Križanović. Ladies and gentlemen, we are therefore discussing the procedure. I must say that I therefore asked the Council of Ministers, did not propose the Council of Ministers and, of course, in talking to my colleagues, I felt that people were ready to improve this law, but it also creates obligations for Parliament not to break the deadlines. Not only can the Council without us, nor can we, without the Council, make good legal projects. And in that sense, I think the request for a change of procedure came from us, but we had to get the agreement of the Council of Ministers and I am grateful that we have 30 so on the trail of what Mr. Križanović was talking about. And I think we should make a statement on the procedure for both this and the next point in order to adopt a conclusion on the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament. That's our obligation to make sure we don't break the deadlines. We need to coordinate the work both at home. Is anyone else answering for word? Dr. Crescent. There you go, Gligorić, then the chairman of Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers Terzić, ladies and gentlemen, we had a previous meeting with Mr. Dikson and Director of the Administration of Mr. Čaušević as club chiefs and we agreed to follow a reduced procedure with the desire to have them through 31.10. when they said that this was the final deadline for this set of laws to be adopted so that they could implement these laws in 1.1., i.e. put into office of the Direct Taxation Authority. I agree, and it is good that the chairman, Mr. Terzić, said that we should take the short procedure. We had previously agreed to coordinate this work, and at the same time we would have asked, because today we are not talking about the content of the law, if I had been very familiar with the content of these laws, that there is a serious threat to the economy, especially the Law on indirect taxation.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20114	That's why there's an amendment phase. gligorić, don't
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20115	Wait a minute, the Force Charge Act. I'm saying this for a reason to ask my colleagues to pay special attention when we have a chance to intervene on these laws after a brief procedure. Because I have the knowledge that they have prescribed this from some countries where the state of the great economy is applying to this poor woman of ours as she is in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We must find measure as MPs. This is also a request for colleagues to take special care of how in the short procedure we could fix this norm that we received in the draft, and it is good that it does not go by emergency procedure, and it was my pledge at that meeting that the shortened procedure is an option, while not jeopardising management to reach timely quality laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20116	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Stand by. I, my apologies to the chairman, thought we had reached an agreement, so I didn't. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20117	Yes, we are, I know that the chairman is cautious, so he's afraid that I'm not causing further discussion with my discussion. Absolutely not my intention, except to say yes. Look, first of all, there's no one here today from the Directorate for Direct Taxation, there's no Mr Dikson, and so far we've made it clear to them, personally and to the representatives of the international community, who brought him to this place, that his obligation is to establish a relationship to sit here and explain to the MPs what he's getting paid for it. There's no one from this Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and as far as I'm concerned, I'm absolutely right, I'm not the one who should be entitled at all, but I agree with everyone that this needs to be properly examined. Since they obviously don't care about that, then they need some things to change eventually. But why did I answer now? Exactly what Mr. Križanović was talking about. Don't stick your head in the sand. We absolutely have a huge problem with the functioning of the Directorate for indirect taxation, the Council of Ministers and Parliament. It's a law that you've finally adopted that's complicated. The law makes it clear that the Council of Ministers absolutely cannot make any decision unless it has the agreement of the Directorate for Direct Taxation. What does it mean?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20118	Of course, not included
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20119	Please don't make things so simple. We'll be there, I'll be in my discussion, and I'll be with the MP. It means what that means. That we, if we want to change something on the Council of Ministers in relation to the law proposed by the Directorate for Direct Taxation. We need to get that back to the Department of Direct Taxation on Consensus. And in the end, in every procedure, we are actually directly sending you what the Direct Taxation Authority is proposing. There is simply no other way for us from the administration to change the law, to adapt to what we assume you will also accept and send you to the benches. There's no such thing as law. There's no such thing as that. That's one thing. Secondly, you have a Rules of Procedure that you've been working on for 2.5 years that you still haven't had enough strength to change it, and that Rules of Procedure, I don't know if there are any democratic practices anywhere in the world. Maybe I'll let him have one somewhere. What does that Rules of Procedure say? That when the law that came from Council of Ministers 32
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20120	I beg the chairman, give me the procedure, leave our rules of procedure. We'll talk about the Rules of Procedure. Don't let us open up the debate now. That's why I said it. We've reached agreement on the procedure. If someone wants the agenda point of this parlament to be the Direct Taxation Directorate, let's suggest that we once discuss what we can change in law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20121	So, the Rules of Procedure say that without any opinion from the Government, which means in this case and the Directorate for Direct Taxation, MPs can change the law at their discretion, which again directly violates the Law on indirect taxation. We're in a vicious circle and it's not a matter of respect and disrespect. It's just a matter of goodwill for us all to sit together and find a mechanism to help us. Is this a mechanism that the commission cannot yet bring an amendment which is an integral part of the law, without the consent of the indirect taxation board, or something in that sense, I don't know. But that's the key problem. And in the end, we made it ourselves and we have to solve it ourselves.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20122	Thank you. I would only beg MPs and all of us to discuss the procedure. I do not dispute that everything that you think can be the point of the agenda we suggest that we clear it up once. But if every point we have here is just a matter of procedure, not the essence of the law, we're not going to make it as far as we go. So the Direct Taxation Directorate as a point so we'll talk about what needs to be added, whether to change the law, how to build trust, etc. This is how we deal with these stories, and we get into a situation where every law needs to be changed, which is a sign that MPs haven't paid enough attention to the essence. I think that's it, nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20123	Speaks immediately
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20124	Well, I'm holding a doctor myself, too. Gligor. I don't think so. I'm an MP like you. I'm not amnesting myself. So the word Dr. Živković, then Ljilja Milićević. But let's just stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20125	Dear Chairman, we will stick to the agenda points but we are talking about the procedure here and I think that the current practice has been the Council of Ministers' practice that 5 to 12 are being delivered to very important legal projects and that this parliament is one piece of guilt 33 that has accepted it, but I think it has accepted it for good purposes, to come out and to do something about it. However, these legal projects were completed in January and entered the procedure as regards the ministries, indirect taxation agencies, entity ministries, etc. And then we get it for five minutes before the law is passed, and it's still undefended to say it goes according to this, 105th procedure. That means this parallel means nothing in this country. That is how the Council of Ministers and others applies, I am also talking to the Directorate for indirect taxation and others in this country. So, in January, the months were the final legal projects and then we get it in October and we're asked to work on what kind of an accelerated project I don't know about. That's what I'm talking about, the way the laws are coming into this Parliament and we're just asking to be allowed what's the basic commercial right to do, to make an amendment to any project that's coming here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20126	Thank you. Ljilja Milićević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20127	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry, I wasn't at the beginning, but we know that the board of directors held a meeting with the chairman of the clubs. I too had a meeting as chairman of the Commission. These two laws are part of the project and two other laws. Those four laws will go together in the process, it's logical that we go by procedure 104, and it's not true. We had a situation in the Commission that the amendments we adopted had passed, no one had killed them, another House had another solution. Therefore, no one was denied the democratic right to declare his will and vote as he wishes.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20128	I thank my colleague Milićević. Is there any more discussion? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. So, get ready to vote. Vote now. So, we declare who is in favour of adopting the Council of Ministers of BiH to discuss the draft law on the indirect taxation procedure under the urgent procedure in accordance with Article 104. Vote now. We've got to do it again. We repeat the vote. Vote now. I therefore conclude that with a vote of 33, against no one, abstention 2, we have therefore adopted the Council of Ministers' proposal that, in accordance with Article 104's procedure, we conduct a procedure relating to the draft law on the indirect taxation procedure under emergency procedure. 34 So we move to the fourth item of the agenda that is, Add.4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law on the mandatory collection of indirect taxes in BiH under an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. You have heard the Rules of Procedure explain by the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, that the Council of Ministers is also looking for a shortened procedure on this legislative project, that is to say, the procedure of Article 104. I don't think there is a need for the chairman of the Council of Ministers to go out for a pay phone again, he said that as part of the first item of the agenda. I'm opening a debate. Reasons the same, the essence is similar, no one answers. I'm closing the debate. I suggest we make a statement. So get ready to vote. Vote now. So, I find that with 32 votes for, against, no one was, 2 abstentions, we have accepted the Council of Ministers' request to consider the draft law on the mandatory collection of indirect taxes in BiH by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, we ended two of these agenda points, and based on what I was talking about, I suggest the Council of Representatives' conclusion to honor the deadlines. I'm reading the conclusion. In view of the need to adopt, by 31 October 2005, the Law on the indirect taxation procedure and the Law on the forced collection of indirect taxes, in brackets, is based on an emergency procedure under Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, at a session held on 28.9.2005, draws conclusions, under the 1st deadlines to consider the draft law on indirect taxation and the Law on the forced collection of indirect taxes, are shortened as follows in the House of Representatives - the Commission's responsible for Finance and Budget will complete the commission phase on the drafts of the law by 10 October 2005 and the House will submit the report, - the House session will be scheduled by 23 October 2005. In 2005, the Commission for Finance and the Budget of the House of Representatives shall be in charge of coordinating its activities with the competent committee of the People's House and the Secretary of the House to co-ordinate meetings of the House of Peoples, the 4th Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, to end within the same period the commission phase under the Proposal for a Law on Customs Infringements, held in the ordinary 35 procedure of 30 August 2005, given that this law is related to the previous two laws. So this is exactly what we've covered with this law that's in the package. I'm opening a conclusion debate. I don't think there's any need to discuss it. We conclude, let's get to the bottom of these conclusions. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So I find that, unanimously, with 35 votes, we have accepted the conclusions that I have read. And that concludes the fourth item of the agenda. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, that's Ad.5. The request of MP Muhamed Moranjkić to consider the draft law supplementing the Law on Public Procurement of BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 104. On 15 September, Poslanik Moranjkić delivered the Rules of Procedure to the Prolonged Law on the Completion of the Law on Public Procurement with a request for consideration under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. You're the one who got the bill. I'm opening a motion hearing. The word is Mr. Moranjkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I made a commitment to myself that, in short, even though there is a reason in the law, I would briefly explain it one more time, what is the way. Well, when it comes to procedures without justification, I believe that this law should meet certain expectations and failures that were passed in the previous law, shut up, is also to disable what is in the reasoning. Did I collect everything from that, by analysing this law, I believe I am but I leave the possibility for other MPs and others who have the right and the possibility to act in amendment. That's why I've been going along with the proposal to go along with Article 104, and I suggest that it be accepted that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20130	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. I urge you to prepare for the vote. Vote now. Who's in favor of accepting Article 104's procedure? I find that, unanimously with 33 votes for, no one against, no one abstentions, we have accepted MP Muhamed Moranjkić's request to consider the proposal for a law on 36 additions to the BiH Public Procurement Act by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure and thus obtained the conditions to move to the sixth item of the agenda, which is Ad.6. The request of Ambassador Muhamed Moranjkić to consider Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Act on additional value by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure and this legislative proposal, Mr. Moranjkić, delivered on 17 September this year. The same request therefore requires that it be considered in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate. No Niko's answering for a word. I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I thank you, therefore, with 32 votes for, no one against, 2 abstentions, I find that we have accepted the request of Ambassador Muhamed Moranjkić to consider the Amendment Law and the Supplements of the Tax Act on additional value by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, we've reached the seventh item of the agenda, that's Ad.7. I welcome Minister Radovanović's proposal for a law on BiH's defence. I propose on behalf of the College, since the Defence Commission has completed its work on both these legal projects, related to defence reform. So, I suppose Mr. Gregorijan will attend this session too, to prepare the translation headphones, so that the Commission can write a report, I suggest an hour's break, use it for lunch, for additional findings if we need them. So we keep working at half three. ... delivered the draft law on the defence of BiH in parliamentary procedure, the Kolegijum has maximumly shortened the deadlines for consideration, so the bill is already in its first reading today. [[PAUZA]] I would like to inform you that yesterday, the committee responsible for the defence and security policy and the report of that commission was held today. The Joint Commission for Defence and Beznost Policy has adopted the Proposal for a Law on Defence and adopted 8 amendments that have become an integral part of this text. I would also like to inform you that we have received renewed amendments for the plenary session, since we have shortened the procedure from the HDZ Members' Club and then from MEPs Mirsad Ćeman and Poslanik Milorad Živković. 37 But before I open the debate, I would like to welcome the co-chairman, on behalf of the NATO Defence Reform Commission in BiH, Mr Rafi Gregorijan, who did not save time, effort and knowledge to get the best legal solutions for BiH. I am also pleased to welcome Minister Radovanović, who has also worked with a hearty mind on defence reform, the development of these legal projects, and I would suggest, if you agree, that, in a brief address, Minister Radovanović may point to the course of defence reform, the development of these legal projects, and I would say the political mood that ruled on a joint team that worked on defence reform so that we could continue to conduct the debate and be happy to adopt the law in the first reading. So, do you agree that Minister Radovanović will take his word for it? Minister Radovanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20131	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, so today the draft law on BiH's defence has come before this house, which has been the result of the work throughout this year, based on the decision of the High Representative of the International Community for BiH since 31.12.2004, which established the Defence Reform Commission, which established the mandate of the Commission and in some way the draft framework of the Commission's work in terms of defence reform. On the basis of the decision, the Reform Commission, which included domestic representatives, representatives of BiH-level institutions and entity institutions, representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, representatives of the BiH Presidency and representatives of international organisations, above all representatives of NATO, representatives of the EU, the OSCE and observers from the US Embassy of the EU Presidency of Turkey and the Russian Federation, thus, also worked on the 18th of the year, representatives of those structures signed the harmonised text of the Law on the Defence of BiH and the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH. It should be pointed out that this harmonised text represents or the text of this law is a certain kind of political consensus between the participants in the making of the law and also, a text that is acceptable, verified for representatives of relevant international institutions, notably NATO as an institution that is relevant in the area of defence for BiH's long-term foreign policy objectives. These solutions, the High Representative, therefore formally formed by the Commission, were introduced to 21.7. On that same day, he sent a letter to BiH's institutions, which welcomed the Commission's work on defence reform, concluded that the proposed solutions satisfy the mandate and sought to launch the procedure for the adoption of those laws in as short a period of time as possible. Accordingly, the BiH Ministry of Defence has submitted a request to entity defence ministries, to obtain the consent of competent institutions to transfer 38 powers to BiH, as well as to launch other required procedures at entity level. Also, on 9 August, the BiH presidency as chief commander of the Armed Forces was informed of activities related to the adoption of the law as well as the need to adopt amendments to the entity constitution and to amend a number of entity laws in the process of transferring competences in the area of defence from entities to BiH. On 30.8th, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia's House of Representatives adopted a decision on the transfer of competence in the field of defence from the RS to BiH and the National Assembly Council confirmed the decision at its session on 7 September. On 7 September, the BiH Federation Parliament held a meeting of the Federation House of Representatives and on 8 September at a meeting of the House of Peoples, took the decision to transfer powers to BiH and authorised the Prime Minister of the Federation of BiH to sign an agreement between the Federation and the RS on the transfer of powers to the scale with the provisions of Article 3a of the Constitution of BiH. In the follow-up procedure, it was submitted to the Council of Ministers of BiH, accepted request and sent to parliamentary procedure, and within the framework of parliamentary procedure, the Constitutional and Legal Commission of both homes and the Joint Commission, as it is said, for defence and security at yesterday's session and today's session, did its part of the job and therefore, the laws are in front of this house today. I would especially like to point out that since the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, the defence system has been subject to permanent changes which, including today's current model and law, were, in their nature, short-term. This state of change without a long-term vision, is not a characteristic of the nature of the defence system, and by my deep conviction, has a number of negative dimensions, whether they are safe, whether they are financial, whether they are social political and each other. Unlike the current changes to the new BiH Defence Act, it is similar to the Service Act to establish a long-term model that meets not only the criteria for BiH membership in the Partnership for Peace programme, but also the criteria for NATO membership and thus enables the reform to be implemented in the area of defence and to work on a model that has been verified and confirmed by the NATO Alliance as an institution and structure that is relevant in this area and in line with our foreign policy objectives. So, I would be very grateful that a positive, positive political one if you want the atmosphere and the mood that has been expressed during the drafting of these laws and delivered in the procedure, to be exhibited in both this home and the House of Peoples in the next procedure, and that in this way BiH gets the Defence Act as soon as possible, so that its implementation starts in time and that there is room for the financial part of this model, which is related to 1 January 2006, as the beginning of the next fiscal year, to be successful. 39 Once again, I thank you for your willingness so far to speed up the procedure through Parliament, and I am ready, of course, to repeat all questions in further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20132	I thank Minister Radovanović. Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening a debate on the proposal for a law on the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina in its first reading. Who's answering for a word? Are there any debaters? Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20133	Dear Chairman, gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers, members of the Commission and Mr Co-chair of the Defence Reform Commission, fellow MPs, respected guests. I must say that these last few days, the finalisation of this law in the joint commission itself has run with a lot of effort and a lot of effort to get to the text of the law that is now practically in the procedure. What I wanted to say in my first reading, warn of something that will happen later, or something that we will discuss later. In fact, in the Commission's work, a number of amendments, very serious amendments, which I have invested on behalf of the Club, have not come to support and it will be renewed meanings for discussion when it comes to second reading. Since we did not have the time to meet a business policy that says the amendments must arrive 48 hours before the start of work, it would be necessary to allow MPs here today to make a single conclusion that they can invest means, or repeat the amendments or submit amendments to eventually accepted in some period. I suggest that it be in the next 48 hours. So they have the opportunity for MPs to repeat the amendments of those who think they should repeat them. In particular, I think that I need to respect the thinking, I think not only of mine, but also of a number of MPs, and I want this way, and I want to draw attention to the 57th law and the solutions that we are going to offer for this member, but I think it will be acceptable, but I need the will of all of us here and not only of us here, but also of the members of the Presidency, but of certain and others who can influence us in this way to come definitely to the text of the law that is acceptable to everyone. So I'm only warning this time about the major problems caused by the non-definition of Article 57 which won't affect the SDS Club when it comes to first-reading voting. So we will support the law in our first reading, but it has an important impact on our relationship with the law in the second phase when we defend the amendments. Thank you. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20134	I thank my colleague Novaković. Just to draw attention to the fact that in our invitation to this session, we have made a note that MPs who wish to renew the amendments to the renewal until the beginning of the session. I agree that there has been a tight timing that the commission has been working as long as the session has lasted so that we will find one, I would say a satisfactory solution that anyone who wants to renew the amendments to the plenary phase would only ask you, since these amendments have already been in the common neighbourhood to make sure that the complete script of the amendment is not repeated. You already know what fate was in the joint commission, but that club presidents are trying to seek understanding in mutual dialogue for something they think can be acceptable. But we'll talk about it when we finish the law in our first reading. So the word was asked for by Mr. Beris Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20135	Dear ladies and gentlemen, of course, the circumstances of the first reading do not mean much debate, except debate on principles and principles, etc. However, the Party for BiH MPs' club does not want to miss the opportunity to point out that today is today, we will not say historic day, but it is a really important day for Bosnia and Herzegovina and we express our satisfaction that after a long time we have come to say so in the process that one of these efforts has been taken, etc. In principle, we too have a misunderstanding in some solutions, i.e. we are aware that some solutions are the result of an unachieved political consensus and perhaps incomplete understanding of certain things, and therefore we are appealing to all MPs and clubs to refrain from all those amendments, from all those amendments that can be estimated that today or in the next few days we will not be able to reach a full consensus, so that some questions remain in some way and not solved, so we have dealt with them at some other stage, but the current solution for us guarantees that the system can function. We understand that from the opening statement of our defence minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20136	Thank you. The word was requested by Mrs. Seada Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20137	Thank you. So on behalf of the Commission as Vice-President of the Joint Defence and Security Policy Commission, I just want to say a few things, although you received the report when it comes to the Defence Act, you saw, you could see from the report that a large number of amendments have arrived at the law. However, the Commission has obviously found the strength to respect what the Defence Reform Commission has done and to respect the fact that that compromise, and a major compromise has been made on the Defence Reform Commission between all these constituent peoples, has been preserved. Everyone, as Mr. Gregorijan once said and gave what he had to and got what he needed. 41 We tried not to endanger this concept, and I think that we have succeeded greatly because we have come to this compromise through talks and agreement between all parties of the parliamentary majority and a large number of parties that do not make up the parliamentary majority, and also whose agreement is with the members of the BiH presidency. So indeed, the Defence Reform Commission has done a big job, brought Bosnia and Herzegovina closer to the NATO Alliance, and we have adopted constructive amendments on the Joint Commission in the order of a large number of amendments, whether the position, whether the opposition, so all the amendments that remained on the concept that the law had provided, but significantly improved the solutions submitted and even provided answers to some questions that were left unanswered. I hope that even when amendments are renewed that we will not be brought into a situation to discuss that, or that we have the situation we had on the Defence Reform Commission, because I believe that those 22 signatures bind each and every one of us when it comes to the solutions offered. I appeal to support this law, the Commission's report with the amendments adopted, therefore the Law with the amendments adopted in the first reading and that it is possible to meet our obligation as soon as possible and when it comes to second reading, because we know that the Law on Defence is the assumption that it could be applied and that a budget could be drawn up for the next year in which it is and how important to provide funds for the transition period and for people who will be jobless.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20138	I thank my colleague Palavrić. The word was asked for by dr. Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20139	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, is aware of the fact that defence reform is an important reform in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the SNSD has taken active part in the reform for several reasons. The most important reason was that the defence reform and the legislative changes that take place here are largely coordinated with our strategy, our vision and our vision of the defence system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are pleased to say that part of our recommendations regarding the regime has been adopted. I will only spomenuće the abolition of the recruitment, although the law states that it is composed of armed forces of active and reserve composition, we consider that there are sufficient opportunities left to reduce the reserve composition gradually over a further period of time, and then abolish, as well as the armed forces in this issue, that, under this law and constitutional jurisdiction of the Presidency, it is therefore reduced in a certain period of time and abolished. Therefore, in this section called Parliament's work, we leave aside all the merits that the commission has undisputed, which has worked to have this law in Parliament at all, that this Parliament is the one that re-... I also expressed yesterday's disagreement on the commission that the practical material that came to us was God's letter which could not be changed by any amendment or by any technical repair, which was later respected and given the possibility of MPs and there was also the Ministry meeting that part of the SNSD amendment was accepted on that commission. 42 For this reason, I believe that this parliament is the place where this law should be passed, and that somewhere in preparation should be at certain levels, that we do not have parallel structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In a desire to speed up this process, I am on behalf of the Club, based on the reports that we received in the commission during today's work, I have submitted the amendments that need to be re-proved and I want to defend this home again, and I believe that every MP has enough time to work in this way. So we are trying to make our contribution today to end this reform in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20140	Thank you, Dr. President. Zivkovic. The word was asked for by Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express on behalf of the SDP of Bosnia and Herzegovina, on behalf of the SDP Club, the satisfaction of discussing such an important reform law in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament today, and so I would also like to say that we are giving recognition to this defence reform committee and our defence ministry. However, it seems that with us it becomes a rule that all the important reform laws are passed in one confusing state in one time-pressing state in which it really does not leave this parliament time to consciously study legislative proposals. Here you can see from this genealogy that the minister had just stated that over two months of this law was discussed from entity to state parliament. And the state parliament is left for a full 7-8 days. And it becomes a respected colleague from the College of our House that the report of our committees which, in my opinion, are very relevant for the evaluation of this Parliament is delivered warm, warmly printed on benches in front of the agenda point, not in front of the session, but in front of the agenda point. I think that practice should be changed in the interest of the quality of work of this Parliament. I am fully aware that we will come now at the time of the further continuation of these reforms and that we will need faster and faster and pass laws, but in any case I think that better organisation and better preparation of the session could satisfy this minimum or our business procedures. So, regardless of these remarks, taking into account the importance of this law and expressing our commitment that it is not close to those of our expectations, we will still support this proposal of the law in the first reading, and I would agree with colleague Novaković that as far as the second reading is concerned, we can really talk openly, but I think that given the large number of amendments and what, the fact that we are meeting for the first time even some amendments here, I don't know who it is, perhaps now in such a short time to see the essence and importance of these amendments and to give them a correct commitment. Thank you. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20142	Thank you very much. Mr Špirić, chairman of the House of Representatives, answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20143	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, esteemed colleagues, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, allow me to welcome them, too. Gregorian's co-chairing commission on behalf of NATO. So, today I want to congratulate all those who in Bosnia and Herzegovina have not saved their efforts by asking for a compromise to come to an important legislative project. And there are many of them in the Republika Srpska and the Federation and in the state parliament. During the last year, fierce political debates have been held in Bosnia and Herzegovina when defence reform is involved, and the process is being conducted and praised, and certain reserves have been expressed in terms of the process. And I think that level of compromise reached in both the National Assembly of Republika Srpska and the Federation Parliament and at different levels in Bosnia and Herzegovina, this parliament today has an obligation to preserve and reach the best possible legal solution that is in the interest of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And therefore there should be no hope or ambition that all the wishes of the leaders of certain political parties or clubs will be respected by this law, because it would be an impossible job. But almost certainly what we heard was that no one was left aside, no one was forbidden to tell anyone what they were thinking and all the good ideas were as much as possible to accept. So we have one today, I would say perhaps an easy task, perhaps it would be good after all the fierce stories and reserves, after a compromise and consensus has been reached, above all to send citizens a message that they are getting a good Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because I feel that so far in Bosnia and Herzegovina there has been a game of leaders, individual leaders, that reform projects are afraid of citizens. The purpose of these safety laws is to give every man in this country a safe environment in which they live. I must tell you that when it comes to these objectives of this law, I wanted to talk about them, but after the discussion, or after the opening presentation of Minister Radovanović almost there is no need. If the objectives, since this is reading, are the first reading of this law, if the basic objectives of these laws are affected by the goals that lead Bosnia and Herzegovina's Partnership for Peace of NATO, then if these goals meet this association, then it is certain that they are seducing the interests of both Bosnia and Herzegovina. They meet in that sense, so when it comes to goals, I thought I'd talk about the contingent, so the BiH Armed Forces, whether it's well measured in accordance with the economic environment in which we live. You know that the SNSD had even to this extent that it should demilitarise Bosnia and Herzegovina, that it does not need an army, and that would almost certainly be the cheapest and best solution from the position of the party I belong to, but I think that this 44 level of armed forces, this level of military in Bosnia and Herzegovina is not enough to defend Bosnia and Herzegovina itself, nor is it sufficient for any Bosnia and Herzegovina to attack and I think that the well-wrought logic of the process of demilitarisation of consciousness in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, Bosnia and Herzegovina through this law, as far as I can see, is looking for collective security through the Partnership for Peace and NATO and that's what this law is almost certain to accomplish. But when it comes to objectives, we have here, for example, in section (a) if the main objectives are to be realised to ensure sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence and international subjectivity of Bosnia and Herzegovina, then to improve, improving the foreign policy objectives of Bosnia and Herzegovina, under c) meeting the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina and protecting citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think these goals of this law have been fully achieved. And when it comes to this reserve composition, my little remark is, I think that the economic power of Bosnia and Herzegovina is not such that it could withstand 50% of the professional composition that the ministry should be equipped with, but I say, by believing in the whole of the objectives of this law, I think that it can also be supported and I am glad that the SNSD campaign is to abolish, therefore, to abolish the recruiting so that we don't send the youth of this country to military training to simply try to demilitate the consciousness of young people in this country, that time is used in training, to train, to train, to fight for new jobs, to build a completely different environment, rather than the environment in which many of them are born. I therefore express my satisfaction, and I think that the understatement is confirmed that we have a professional army, so we do not have the recruiting composition and that the reserve composition according to my therefore personal and modest assessment, perhaps premised, but if it also relaxes relations and serves as a compromise, it is acceptable from the point of view of the party that I belong to and I will today support this law in the first and second reading so as to think that my colleagues are right, so the time has been narrowed down, and I think we need today to create a mood for all those who want to defend the amendments in the plenary phase, to endure them, but I think we need to schedule Parliament's session at the end of this week to end this phase. So no one will be denied the right to defend their amendments by working with colleagues to make these amendments accepted. And in that sense, I'm going to ask you, in the end, to create a political will to meet maybe when it comes to the second question, to reading on Friday, and to simply finish this job on this and this law that goes behind it. Thank you very much. Mr. Martin Raguž picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20145	Ladies and gentlemen, respected MPs, respected ministers, respected co-chairs of the Defence Reform Commission, here is the opportunity to say a few words about these 45 really cruel laws and to sort of assess both here and the role of Parliament, it is already open in discussions of certain MPs, Parliament's responsibility for the way this law is passed and its fate and implementation. Well, in that sense, as a member of the College, I just want to say one sentence. So this college has taken the risk that in a very short time, I would say as soon as possible to introduce this law into the procedure, allow a commission hearing, and here is the plenary room today. This was our contribution to this work that was done by the people in the Ministry, to the Defence Reform Commission and to all those who participated in the process of preparing the Law. So that's one positive relationship to what's done. Everything was done to this law, and really, we have to be honest and say it's not little, it was one huge job. And now we're where we are. And now, according to my personal court, there is no reason to be nervous and any kind of hasty, because most of the work has been done both in the mood of leaders and parliamentary parties and clubs, what was the mood on the commission, I see that everyone is aware of the extraordinary responsibilities and that everyone is ready to support the adoption of this law. And for me, the passing of these two laws is definitely evident and unquestionable. Now the second question is and Mr. Križanović's device warns whether we will use any such situation to keep us in a position not to say as legislators of our opinion on the law. No matter what the job is done perfectly by now. I will always be in favour of the position and yesterday I represented it and today I represent it that MPs as responsible representatives of the people who voted say their opinion on the law and try, if possible, to fix the law. As for the club I come from, I must tell you that we have been in an extremely difficult and unpleasant situation, because we have received texts, official texts, so I now responsibly argue here, official texts by the Council of Ministers in different versions and here we accept the risk today, that no, in any way, we are not limiting the debate and amendments, wanting to show good will to adopt this law, although even now I am personally here as a representative I have no guarantee whether this law really complies with the original text. And I'm in a position to raise my hand to him. And here is a great responsibility both to the Council of Ministers and to the Minister of Defence in this trust we preserve each other. As for the amendments, I personally and our club here are responsibly hard and we support and we think that this proposal has absolutely met the basic requirements, meaning single armed forces, parliamentary oversight, one line of command, an appropriateness to Bosnia and Herzegovina's economic capabilities and standards that allow us to become part of a wider Euro-Atlantic infrastructure in the future. That's our goal. But I don't want to accept the dimension in which every attempt, the repairs want to come down to the fact that someone wants to bring principles. I responsibly claim that neither of these amendments raises any of this principle in question, any of the principles. And I think there was room for both the Commission for Reform and the Ministry of Defence to seriously consider a number of amendments. I'll lystrate some. From there, the determination of what is the role to be played until the end of the role where I am being entered into a kind of, yet, and the desire is to depolitize and modernise 46 armies, leaving the possibility that by the end of the vaguely defined relationship between the Ministry of Defence and the Joint Chiefs and the Presidency is not until the end a clear line of responsibility and competence for each of these positions to another situation, that if we already have one army, why is the problem with the rotation system after the mandate expires. Isn't that a contribution to strengthening the state, not to weakening these principles? I don't know what the argument is that these repairs have not been accepted. So, we will support the principles of this law and we support it, but we want this parliament to become places where it will be reasoned and dignifiedly debated the importance of these laws and respect the legitimacy of the demands. And I want to throw away every story here once again that any attempt to intervene against the law can be considered any slowdown on that. We must once put it, put it behind us, take a new step for this parliament, try to reach an even greater understanding between clubs, and in cooperation with the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Defence and the Commission in these few days try to get the best we can to make Bosnia and Herzegovina get these laws that are just one beginning, this is just the beginning of a really serious job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20146	Thank you. A colleague, Šefik Džaferović, and Tihomir Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20147	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I would first of all like to thank the Commission for reforming the defence in Bosnia and Herzegovina and all those who participated in the drafting of the text of the law we have here today, especially if the others had not been singled out by two people, it is the Minister of Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr. Radovanović, and as co-chair of the other co-chairing Dr. Gregorian. I think they've made a huge effort to get us into this situation today and to discuss these laws in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament. I can accept the remarks of our colleagues that we in Parliament have a tight procedure, however, I would also like to remind myself that we here in Parliament have promised to have these laws here in Parliament by 1 October, and for us the promise should be one big commitment, and I am glad that we have fulfilled this promise and I do not think that we should look so much at the time duration of procedures in other bodies and institutions, but we should take care of what we have promised here, even if it is in some, as I say, of a tight, or crowded procedure. That is what it says, and from that I read that we are responsible and that we treat this very important business in Bosnia and Herzegovina in a responsible way. When it comes to the content of the Law itself, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues, so I would not speak in the language of who gave what, who got what, I would not speak in the language of who gets what, who loses what, so there are, right now, to say things that I would do differently, but the fact that with this package of laws we all get, to get the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to get all of its peoples and to get all of its citizens. It's a fact, and I think that fact should come first today when we talk about the set of this law. 47 This is a set of laws that leads our country and all of us to NATO, and our goal is to become members of this very important Euro-Atlantic security association. And that's what's most important to me right now and beyond what I'm building my attitudes when it comes to this law. This law, respected colleagues and colleagues, is the result of a difficult compromise, and therefore, in the Commission, the Parliamentary Committee actually worked yesterday and today was a preeminent mood not to unpack the package with amendments. Because there have been amendments and there have been amendments that actually strike, or they've focused on the fundamental things of this law, that is, these laws that have been approved for a longer period of time. So did I, and we felt and I think it's entirely justified that in terms of what was agreed, which is difficult to agree, which is a difficult compromise does not unpack that package. Those amendments were accepted, which the proposer felt should be accepted, which did not significantly affect the text of the law itself. I ask you to behave in this spirit also here in Parliament, to express our good will and to accept these laws the way they came from our parliamentary committee. Of course, it does not prevent anyone from renewing the amendments. We will plead on this amendment, but I think it's best that it be what we get from our defense and security commission. And in the end, I think we should finish within the time limit we promised. We promised to finish by October 1st, and I think we can and should fulfill that obligation. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20148	Thank you. Dr. Crescent. Gligorić asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I could leave immediately from this one who arranged 1.10th, are you like a colleague, or are we all together?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20150	We all together, you just need to watch the stenogram.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20151	Okay. Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, there is plenty of time, energy, and, above all, emotion in Bosnia and Herzegovina was spent on the Defence Act, the Law on Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Entities have said through the transfer of competence, better said application of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that we are now not returning to this issue in the sense that the interpretation of that member of the Constitution would require an agreement that would mean a concrete signing of an agreement between the two governments, and that would again mean returning to entity parliaments in order to empower governments to strictly apply the Constitution. 48 But we will not talk about it, because then it would go on forever and it is enough for me that the parliament of the RS and the Federation of BiH has said what should be done in this case. But at the same time they have transferred the matter of responsibility, the primary responsibility to this parliament. They are all nice, they said, but at the same time the law will come out of this parliament that will have to be respected by citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's why our responsibility is great, and that's why I think Mr. Raguž spoke well when he said there was no need for anxiety. We should be patient because we've come a long way and we won't question him for sure. But at the same time, the delay on the 1st, 10th, or Mr. Chairman, he said it would be Friday. I think it would be the most normal to respect all this that you have spoken about both Mr. Križanović and Živković, Dr. and Mr. Belkić, etc. To schedule a session on Tuesday next, 3.10. The people's home is on Wednesday, 4.10, and we're going to close and settle this issue. There's no need for anyone to be nervous about it. We will allow Parliament to operate in this shortened procedure, to amend, amendments that have not been supported by the Commission to simply renew that kind of amendment. They are not the essentials of nature, as Mr Džaferović said. Absolutely not. Therefore, we will be in a position to come to terms with this in the finale as the House. So what? Someone might accept, someone won't, and that way we could end it properly. I think that we should make it possible, precisely because of this Parliament's dignity, because of how important these laws are, that is why we know how valid Euro-Atlantic integration is for Bosnia and Herzegovina. We all know that. But that is why we must not make any mistakes, and this Parliament must respect as much as possible so that we can say that we have stood before these laws and that these are ultimately our laws. I would love to talk now about this first reading that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the support of the international community, was total demilitarisation. You know the armies as armies always work against others and that Bosnia and Herzegovina should be that experiment and that message, but we didn't have that understanding, but it would really like that to happen. My party and I talked about it, but here we got that there was no recruitment, which was insisted on a previous solution. But at the same time, I think we should definitely give an answer, which is what the minister should do. What does reform mean? Is at 160 million a year we'll have 400 million. Then we need to see if it's actually a rationality or a reform that needs to cut some costs, or if it's going to increase them significantly. We have to tell the citizens. And that bill has to be said in the second reading, and I suggest it be Tuesday. In my second reading, I'm going to suggest certain conclusions and I'd ask my colleagues to accept it when there's another reading with attention and, of course, to support it. In particular, it will be a question of the property that we have in the municipalities and that we should put it in the position of the local community. But when we talk about the principles of this law, I think that we should adopt this law in our first reading, leave it until Tuesday so that we can renew the amendment, that we have had no luck because we have had the Law on Armed Forces in two versions, we did not have an official version and you cannot simply invest 49 amendments in the fog because you do not know what law it is, which is official and, if we take all of this into account, then we should still prolong it for Tuesday, and at the same time stress that when it comes to joint institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina that this Parliament is the best functioning in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that, always and by the rule, always leave a few days for MPs and if we have the understanding, it has never waited in this Parliament for anything. We've come into a situation where now here we're cutting back a lot of things. And don't cut it to class. Leave a few days to settle this by Tuesday, and we will pass these necessary laws for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20152	I appreciate it. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing the debate in the first reading and I urge you to make your statement by voting, so prepare to vote. Vote now. We're voting on the Defense Act in the first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. We have 33 votes for, no one against, no one abstentions adopted the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. I'm asking if Mr. Gregorijan wants to speak? He does. Please, Mr. Dr.... Gregorijana to address the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina representative council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20153	Thank you, President-in-Office, Mr Špirić, Mr Džaferović, Mr Raguž, members of the Commission, ministers, distinguished members of Parliament and guests attending today's meeting of the House, the House of Representatives. Let me just tell you that it is my great pleasure and privilege to address elected representatives, the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In my opinion, this body, this House of Parliamentary Assembly works best and is the best link between the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina so I am double pleased to be here today, especially as Mr Belkić mentioned, because this is a historic event. And why is that? For NATO, this is extremely important. The war here in Bosnia and Herzegovina transformed the NATO alliance, and when the war began, NATO had debated its own future, an alliance that was created to deter and defend itself against the Soviet Union in the event of an attack to the west, and in case it could not prevent the attack from taking place, to move on the offensive. At the end of the Cold War, the question arises what is the relevance of this alliance in the 1990s. And the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina gave a new purpose, a new meaning to the alliance. It was then decided for the alliance and security of all members of that alliance that our security should, in fact, be extended beyond our borders and security, which we have called security beyond the borders of NATO members and you know that today we have operations in Afghanistan, Sudan and Sudan taking place after 11 September and since 50 NATO has decided to transform the alliance because of what happened in Bosnia and Herzegovina and because of what happened in terms of security in Europe and the whole world, since then this entire region has changed. The autogratical regimes that existed in this region have disappeared. Neighbors now admit to each other and have good relationships. The armies of these countries in the region are being placed under democratic and civilian control and the armies across the region are shrinking. Reforms are being made and are actually going to end recruitment and everyone is trying to become a NATO member in this world after 9/11, but now 10 years after Dayton it is time for Bosnia and Herzegovina to transform its armed forces, meet NATO standards and become part of Euro-Atlantic security arrangements. In June 2004, the heads of state and government of NATO met in Istanbul and set a number of ambitious goals to transform themselves, to transform the military capacities of the alliance to make it more modern, cordial, more interoperable and mobile, in order to respond to the threats of the 21st century, especially in view of what happened on September 11th 2001. The allies also made it clear that NATO would leave and lead an open-door policy for potential candidates to continue to support defence reforms in Bosnia and Herzegovina and reaffirm their long-term commitment to Bosnia and Herzegovina until peace and stability in this country is firmly established and Bosnia and Herzegovina is integrated into Euro-Atlantic structures. They also noted that it was important for Bosnia and Herzegovina to fulfil its obligations both towards Dejton and the UN, which is full co-operation with the international criminal tribunal in The Hague. They welcomed the significant progress Bosnia and Herzegovina has already made in the defence domain, but called for further systematic changes and the continuation of this progress towards a single military force and also urged Bosnia and Herzegovina to take responsibility for these necessary reforms. Early this year, thanks to activities undertaken by Minister Radovanović Bosnia and Herzegovina finally met the last technical precondition for joining the Partnership for Peace. The only question is co-operation with The Hague tribunal remains between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Partnership for Peace, and even in this area things have been dramatically improved since June of last year, and I hope that we all hope that this remaining obligation from Dayton will be completed in the next few months. But the letter, the question that lies ahead today, is more than the absorption of Bosnia and Herzegovina to join the Partnership for Peace. It is in fact the legal goal of Bosnia and Herzegovina to join NATO as a full member of the alliance, as parliamentarians included this provision in the Defence Act as early as 2003. What we're talking about today is actually the way we're going to do your will that you expressed two years ago. Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency confirmed this goal in its February decision. With the suffering in mind during the war and the fears of the people for the future, nothing is more meaningful than seeking the right security that NATO provides to its members. Thanks to the positive and courageous leadership shown by representatives of the ruling and opposition parties in support of the defence reform, there is today an opportunity to take this important step towards NATO membership through your support for a package of measures developed by the Defence Reform Commission, as the NATO Secretary-General told the president last month, it is important to show your responsibility in this ambition to join the Partnership for Peace and NATO. I've heard you mention a compromise on these laws. >A good compromise is not a bad word, but in this case a compromise which can be accepted is actually going towards solutions that are acceptable to NATO membership, but which actually reflect those sensitivity and characteristic situations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The new structure of the force created and approved by the Defence Reform Commission will give you a unique armed force compatible with NATO and consistent with the goals that allies set before themselves at the Istanbul summit. There are a lot of political, economic and legal demands to become a full NATO member. Many are already in the course of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but as far as the military forces are concerned, it is clear that the proposed structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina's armed forces regiments is based on models that exist in some NATO member states, reflecting in fact the unique characteristics of Bosnia and Herzegovina will give Bosnia and Herzegovina a military framework that will actually support the country's said and legal objectives towards NATO membership. New forces will be more efficient. Last year, Bosnia and Herzegovina's entities and parliaments approved a consolidated defence budget of 324 million KM. Later this year, through IMF interventions and other international factors, this figure changed to 274 million KM. And that lower actually the number actually just eroded the system. The defense was actually enough for personal expenses only. Nothing could be spent on getting new equipment, modernizing and training. You've heard that there's about some budget estimate that it's going to take 300 million KM. Some, therefore, 30 million KM will be saved against what you approved last year. NATO's United States and other Allies are ready to help implement these measures if you adopt the packages that are in front of you. The new Bosnia and Herzegovina armed forces will be trained and equipped in accordance with NATO standards and structured to take part in collective security missions outside the country, to participate in peacekeeping support missions and to fight together in the fight against terrorism. They will also be able to help civil authorities here in Bosnia and Herzegovina fight against natural and disasters caused by the human factor. Since it will be under democratic civilian control and armed forces will be isolated from political influence and instead of seeking international forces to oversee their operations, they will for the first time be able to handle their own affairs and contribute to international peace and security. From now on, Bosnia and Herzegovina's armed forces will be a source of stability and trust for the public, not actually a source of mistrust and concern as they are envisioned in close co-operation with NATO. If the concept of a single armed force is passed into the law and fully implemented, you will actually achieve a military structure that will allow you to join NATO. That's actually, you're benefiting because you have a NATO representative here in the Reform Commission because you have a NATO headquarters and you actually have a special representative of NATO Secretary-General as a member of the Commission. The draft laws signed by 22 members and by Commission observers including Žana Kosta on the NATO Secretary-General's special representative are, in fact, a package of Law 52 in front of you. Any major changes to these laws would be, in fact, lead to a risk that NATO would not then approve the whole package. And for this reason, in fact, this law, these laws reflect everything that has been carefully considered and taken into account in the event that something else, some other amendments, if insisted, can lead to the withdrawal of NATO's consent. I think all these amendments can actually be addressed through the existing law. Someone has already mentioned Article 57, I think there is already a political agreement to simply consider and that all the issues that represent the concern that it will be dealt with and that it will be resolved both ways, to the satisfaction of all interested. It will take several years for all elements of the armed forces to be brought into line with NATO standards and that will happen within this framework. NATO headquarters in Sarajevo will remain in Bosnia and Herzegovina to support implementation of defence reform in every way possible. And NATO headquarters in Brussels will continue to provide assistance through a co-operation programme that is particularly prone to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I hope almost, very soon, a Partnership for Peace and ultimately an action plan for membership. I appeal to you to use, to appeal to you to use this unique opportunity to take this...to take this great step towards ensuring peace and security of Europe as a whole, so you will vote for defence reform whether it is today or in another reading and thus become the strongest possible signal to NATO allies that you are committed and seeking and that you are worthy of membership in the largest collective security organization in the history of this world. I thank you once again for giving me the opportunity to address this distinguished body.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20154	Thanks for the exposure. I also thank you, of course, for your commendation to this home. We know we're good, but we're good when our friends tell us we're the best. So thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving to the eighth item of the agenda, that's Ad.8. A draft law on the Service of Armed Forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the first reading on September 19th, we also received a bill from the Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces Service. For the purpose of considering this law, the College has cut the deadlines as short as in the first case. The Commission was in session. You've also received a report from the Commission. 53 I ask you to simply as well as to point 7 so the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina create a positive climate and energy and to adopt this law in the first reading. In that sense, I am opening a debate and I do not think there is a need for Minister Radovanović to speak again. He is the opening statement, at least as we agreed on both one law and another, unless there are questions addressed to the Ministry and Minister Radovanović's address. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, prepare to vote. Vote now. So 32 MPs voted against, there were no abstentions. So we unanimously accepted the Bill on the Service in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading, and thus concluded the debate on the eighth item of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like for us to adopt one working conclusion. In the event that we have received amendments to the HDZ Club, the MP Dr. Živković, then Mr. Ćeman, Dušanka Majkić, SDS and PDP, I think that they all took advantage of the opportunity and why Mr. Gligorić said both SP and praise a little time, but here we also respect these requirements. We in the College are therefore ready to shorten that time, regardless of what might now create a little more work for the MPs today, tomorrow and the day after. On Friday, we have a solemn plenary session of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly. I suggest that we don't waste time, so until then, the House of Representatives is sitting on Friday at 8:00 p.m., and that until that session, everyone who intends to submit amendments to the plenary phase of adoption so that we can declare the laws in the second reading on Friday. Please, I see a wave of people with my hands. We'll get to the bottom of this. Everything will be democratic. So everyone will be right, and the College is making a decision to cut deadlines. I just want you to stick to the Rules of Procedure and we've brought in so, now it's just a question of whether or not we're going to make calls, or today we can schedule a session on Friday at 8am just two points of the agenda, that's – the Law on Defence and Service in Armed Forces, and I'm asking the half-eight presidents of the political party clubs to hold a joint meeting. Who's answering for a word? Novaković, Mr. Križanović and Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20155	I, of course, respect the Rules of Procedure and the possibility that the College, not the possibility, but the real fact that the College is the one who schedules the sessions. So I appreciate that, although 54, I don't think we've left much time to the MPs, but here's what we'll see. At the end of the regrets I think it would be good if the College had respected some of the thoughts here that were. What I'm trying to say is, even if we do it on Friday, I don't think I understand why I have an appointment at 8:00 in the morning? The ceremony session is when?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20156	I'll explain. Of course we've been keeping an eye on each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20157	There's a session at 4:00. Indeed, we schedule at 8 o'clock a session of the House, and then we have until the ceremony another 8 hours. I don't know why. I'd like to pray if it has to be Friday, then that it'll be at the usual time when we hold the sessions, so 10:00. I think it's enough time for us to finish the job.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20158	I'll explain, of course, with another explanation. It's my fault I didn't explain why at 8:00. Because that day we have a lot of protocol obligations, so we have a visit to the President of the Norwegian Parliament, the opening of a formal hall, a conversation with the presidents of clubs and with the College. So from half past ten and beyond. That's why I think I'm asking you to create a mood. No problem can come at 9:00, it can come at 8:00. Let's try to get this job done and take a break, so if we don't get there, we don't bring in a chat about what we have to do. So that's all the reason. And I'm asking that tomorrow, if anyone needs to contact the presidency. So today we've sent a good message, and I'd hate to say, since the House of Peoples has to be ambushed. The law was passed only if it was adopted in the same text by the House of Peoples. So we wouldn't take their time. They've already scheduled the session. They've already scheduled the session. That's why I think we should finish this job Friday. If there's no political agreement, in two days, it's been working for a year, it won't be in seven or ten days. And therefore aware of this warning given by Mr. Gregorijan that it would not be good for us to send a negative message to NATO. So we did a good job, we all made a contribution. So those who are looking, I absolutely find it legitimate that people are looking for 7 days, 10 days, etc. But if it's been discussed here for a year, there's little chance that three days can help on something that can be controversial. But here we go. Let's leave tomorrow. Today, if the Presidency needs to be contacted, if there are fears, they will try to get rid of this and with the Defence Reform Commission. I also have convictions for Article 57 that a political agreement has been reached. So now everyone try to check if it's so we can finish the job on Friday. Next is Mr. Križanović, then Mr. Gligorić. But I'm asking you to be aware, too. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20159	Thank you. I think with this proposal that the House session be held on Friday at 8:00 p.m., we're re-entering the same problem. We're bringing the Dom back into one time pad where we're supposed to have a session by half past ten. I think they're
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20160	We don't have to until half past half past 30, Mr. Križanović. We'll take a break and we'll be in session by four o'clock. But let's not start at 1:00 without finishing Friday.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20161	Given that we have dozens of amendments here that – I will defend myself at the plenary stage, I am not sure that one day is enough for this whole discussion and arrangement. I would support my fellow Gligorić's proposal to hold the session on Tuesday, why Friday.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20162	We'll make a statement. It's not a problem. It'll be democratic.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20163	No problem at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20164	Thank you. A fellow Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20165	Why would we have another problem with some time limits here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20166	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, when you spoke about clubs and individual MPs who have tabled amendments, you forgot to say about the Mixed Club SP and the Independent MPs. And we've invested, you see here it says Amendment 56.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20168	I don't have a list here.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20169	It says here. You know how the one in the commercial says it's a mountain, it's a club. We're human. So we're
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20170	But he sees himself in your place.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20171	Yeah, that's different. Therefore, I want the clubs to be equal and that, if we have already tried to do so, Parliament knows our public as well. And secondly, I'd like to make a statement about my proposal, and I'm glad Mr. Križanović supports it, and I think Tuesday is an optimal time when we can do everything. As for the message, the message is clear. We all voted unanimously. How could it be a better message to anyone? It's perfectly normal for it to be like that in a second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20172	Thank you. So I'm closing the debate. Now we've got your amendments, there's no reason not to hide them, you'll all have equal treatment. But if all the clubs have already made amendments, then there's no going back to the commission. Only Dom has to make a statement about them. So, everyone, stays for tomorrow, so it's not like they're betting. That's why we're leaving time. I can't see. I beg you, therefore, the College is cutting deadlines. You may be satisfied in part dissatisfaction. Parliament's session is Friday at 8:00. Club representatives at 7:30. Please, Mr. Novaković, for your understanding. So there's a chance we can take a break, not make it Friday, we haven't done anything again. So that's why this reserve is because you club presidents are going to have activities. Dr. Crescent. Kunić has a word for her. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20173	Dear Chairman, you're scheduled for Friday, and we haven't spoken out when we're holding a session. You want this parliament to be declared. I think most of it is noticeable for a session to take place on Tuesday. I don't know why it should be held for a day. So the amendment is very much. 57 And we have some other things to come up with, I guess we all need some time. So we mean it when you suggest it. We don't want to beat this serious thing over our knees in such a hurry. Therefore, Mr President, I would like to appeal that you take these proposals very seriously and put it to the vote. You betcha. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20174	Thank you. I don't think we need to lecture each other, but stick to the Rules of Procedure. When you sit here, you'll cut all the time you want. Sits on Friday at 8, clubs at half past eight. Who won't have his own attitude about the law. We need to talk like that, unfortunately. So we're going to the ninth point of the agenda. There's no need we arranged a session Friday at 8:00. The College is in charge of cutting deadlines according to the Rules of Procedure. If you're not satisfied we'll sit there, you sit here and finish the story, I'll respect you. Moving to the ninth item of the agenda, ladies and gentlemen, please a little patience. Ad.9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading Before I go, I would like to thank Minister Radovanović and the members of the Commission to Mr... Gregorian on useful suggestions. So thank you. We've moved to the ninth item of the agenda. They don't need to go any further. If they don't want to, of course. So the proposal for this law has been in parliamentary procedure since 30 March 2005. It's being considered in regular procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 12 April 2005. The competent Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum on two occasions requested an extension of the deadline for a commission hearing on 16 May and 30 August 2005. The Commission's report on the draft law was received on 19 September 2005. The Commission adopted 13 amendments that have become an integral part of the draft law. In the plenary phase, Momčilo Novaković submitted 7 amendments. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in my first reading, as long as I'd like to welcome the agile minister, Mr. Keba, who came here. If there is a need before the debate on the Law to address the MPs? There isn't. So here's the minister, you can ask him if there's any uncertainty about the law. I'm opening a debate. 58 Who Answers the Word? Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20175	Madam Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I must say that this is a law where we have tried with the commission to ensure the consent of the Republika Srpska Parliament, which is a very characteristic situation here. On the one hand, we have accepted the obligation of Bosnia and Herzegovina to regulate the entity's institution at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and, on the other hand, the entity's competence to deal with this issue, the issue that is defined meant by the obligation of the Ombudsman to human rights. As we have not received a change of attitude of the National Assembly, i.e. that practical jurisdiction on this issue has not been passed on to the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the SDS Club will not support the Law in its first reading until until jurisdiction is passed on means by whoever should do so, or by the National Assembly of Republika Srpska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20176	I thank my colleague Novaković. Who's on the phone? Mr. Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20177	On behalf of the... party club, i.e. information to be more precise that the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, as far as I understand it, has given up, or will not transfer jurisdiction in this area to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so it has not even discussed, man is now wondering what to do? On the one hand, you have a proposal and solutions that are the result of Mr. Novaković's amendments that have produced a completely confusing solution, a completely confusing solution where we have got a three-person society, so the definition of the institution is made by three people, I Ziasta, and now I can't support this either, Mr. Novaković. As proposed by the Commission. As far as I'm concerned, I would absolutely be in favour of BiH's ombus being in Banja Luka, but BiH's Ombudsman, but not the three-person society. And I think that Parliament has been brought into a very delicate situation that practically now, after the commission phase and amendments, etc. You're notifying us that practically nothing from our story today unless we're going to try some revotes, providing support for some of these solutions, etc. And otherwise I claim that this solution that is the result of some compromises on the commission, I understand, trying to understand really does not give the institution of the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20178	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. The word was requested by the chairman, Mr. Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20179	So, I'm not going to replicate to Mr. Belkić, but I'm going to try to have my own discussion to discuss some of the things he's opened up. I've really left half a year to try to help prepare this law and get to it and I can't accept the assessment that it's a confusion that we are facing, but I think it's a real proposal that meets all the important elements why this law should have been passed. And a post-ready commitment and meets the requirements of the feasibility study and establishes the institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Ombudsman, which is a post-opportunity commitment. The form was in the earlier proposal of the Ombudsman and two deputies, and now it's an institution, so it's being established by the gentlemen of the institutions. And it's no society as Beriz calls it, it's the institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At least that's how I see it, and there's been a two-year presidency in that institution. It means the individual and enabled practically uninterrupted functioning of the institution. And the contribution to having a real institution, not having this situation where, through the game of transfer of jurisdiction, we're going to break this law another time. And what's going on? Those who most advocate reform defacto for the second time are against this law that has been checked by international standards, now I'm telling you the same responsibly, as some have claimed what you know television, this. Now I'm saying it is. So are you against international standards now? Let us once take the same principles, the same principles and establish responsibility here, here I do not want to polimise with Mr. Novaković. We have agreed to work together on the amendments and it is an attempt to reach something that means a law that we can adopt in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament. So now all this stuff that's been done for a year should be put back as a thing that's problematic. And I don't accept the assessment that this is a troubled law. All the elements for which the law as a commitment by Bosnia and Herzegovina has been laid down by this law, it is responsibly satisfying.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20180	I would like to thank my colleague Raguž. The word was asked for by Mr. Ćeman. Who's got the replica? Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20181	First I don't know if this technique works, I'm pressing this replica, so you don't see what it is. I have to say that I have to replicate to Mr. Raguž, I haven't spoken at all about the 60 text of the law. So I didn't talk about the amendments, I didn't even talk about the alignment. I'm part of the amendment that Mr. Raguž suggested I support. So I support them, and as far as it's concerned, nothing is disputed. What I was talking about was jurisdiction. So I made it perfectly clear why we don't support the law in our first reading. So, we've been expecting and we've been looking all along, I've written a letter a few times, so on behalf of the Club of the National Assembly, asking perfectly clear to transfer jurisdiction to finish this job. Given that it didn't happen, given the fact that I've made amendments, but amendments don't make sense either, and they're practically not allowed to discuss them until we finish the first part of the job. That's why we won't support the law in the first reading. The second is now a matter of texting whether it is logical for this institution to be at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina or not. The other thing is that we out there wrote where the seat should be, where it shouldn't be, etc. This matter is not regulated in all countries in the same way. We're expected to regulate at the level of state. In many others it is regulated so on much lower levels. There's no such thing as a unique system. But I wasn't talking about it, I was just talking about this first part because we're not gonna support the law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20182	I thank my colleague Novaković. Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20183	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, probably for quite other reasons than some of the discussions we have already heard, I could also be critical of the solutions that have been made on the commission, respecting, of course, the effort that both the commission and fellow MPs have done in the meantime. But since we need to be clear about principles, and principles are fundamental solutions that can be improved. So the question really is, are solutions set out like this generally acceptable? Sometimes when compromises are made, one or more of nature's worst things are done or made for the work that's done. So it's very often crafty to get mellows that don't look like a lot of over-soldiers. But all in all, I think that since the protection of human rights should, in principle, be in Bosnia and Herzegovina in a unique way, when I say a unique meaning, in principle, through those institutions that should be there, that unity is symbolized, and that perhaps they are substituted as part of the NGO conditionally under the supposed conditions of the sector, so in a positive sense, these fences should right now be guaranteed, then it seems to me that we should strive for cleaner and cleaner solutions. And I don't see here that it's clean, but someone else in this one, for some other solution, said it was a clean solution, and at least I'm honest with you in the dilemma. Anyway, if there's a reason maybe or a dilemma about others I'm going to use 61 a bit, this isn't a ball, I'm not talking on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, but as an MP, so it's not a ball from the Constitutional and Legal Commission, so let's maybe give it another chance to the commission that's been dealing with this issue even more. to perhaps look at these also principled remarks whether we really need it in the future institution of the Ombudsman in three persons, or maybe we need some other organisational solution that can, of course, be just as effective as the institution of the Ombudsman in three persons. And there are solutions and so that the law might not fall on this principle, at a vote on principles, here I am, getting up to say, let's maybe make another move. At the very least, let's say a reform step in this area, of course, it doesn't mean only one modality, but the essence has to satisfy and it can't be a solution so far. This approach has not gone to some segments much from now on and therefore I am not fully satisfied with it. But I'm not saying that through this report the commission was given a slightly fresher solution. So, here's what you can do, if we can think of anything, if there's no point in retrying on the committee that maybe something else on this subject, as the professor says, might come up with something else.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20184	Thank you. Replica colleague Novaković
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20185	esteemed colleagues, distinguished colleagues, convinced that we would get to this law sooner if we start over. So it seems to me that we are at a stage where it's very difficult to adopt this law in this way, and that is why I suggest that we actually end up with a procedure of law today to open up the possibility of working in a different way, because it seems to me that we will get to the law sooner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20186	Thank you. The word's got to be dr. Azra Hadžiahmetović, so Mr. Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20187	Thank you. Dear Members of the College and colleagues and colleagues, I would like to remind you of something that my colleague Raguž has recently considered very important, but may have not been sufficiently absorbed in terms of the importance of adopting this law and regulation as MPs of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I will remind you that this is one of the post-opportunity obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that there is almost no monitoring report on the team in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the Council of Europe for BiH that focuses on this issue. So I want to warn you that we really don't have time. I'd like to take care of that. We must have this law in one form that is appropriate to European standards, especially the standards of the Council of Europe. And in that sense, whatever we decide to do today, whether we do it or not, but I'm asking you to take care of it. With one suggestion and a remark, let's not know who, whether members of the College or the Club of the SDS if, 62, I understand that there may be reserves due to the possible absence of the Republika Srpska Assembly's response, but there is a silence of the administration, there is also a setting of agendas at the College, so if there is something controversial that might otherwise regulate it, but in this way by prolonging, the rejection of the final solution regarding the Bosnia and Herzegovina's institution, I don't think we are in any way in favour of it. That's one thing. Secondly, European standards are mentioned here. I really belong to those who are always prone to European standards and even when they may not be suitable to us. But no one can convince me that a European standard is to an institution, a formulation that an institution is made up of three people. I know that a man is an institution by himself, but that an institution is made up of three people, there is a clear idea of what the context is about when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina. And in that sense, when it comes to human rights, I want to remind you of the universality of human rights. And any action that will follow the commission, or any other I suggest that this formulation be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20188	Thank you. A colleague called Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20189	Dear colleagues, I am now once again a member of this Committee on Human Rights and I feel very strange at the moment when we are discussing the law so much, and it is now said that there is no legal basis in fact and the Commission for, the Constitutional and Legal Commission has decided that there is a basis for this. Now I want to know who's right, who's wrong? But another thing I would like to point out was that this law was being debated, and I agree that I was also opposed to having an institution under the supposed signs of three amendments, but if it came as a compromise, and it seems to me that it came as a compromise on which we have both received the position and the opinion of the Council of Ministers that have agreed on the amendments, then I claim that today we have a law that we could plead. Well, I'd like to go to the point where we get to the bottom of this report from the Commission, vote and let the law fail. Why do I think someone, we're trying here we won't. Because the greatest thing is absurd is that we had an outpost for Bosnia and Herzegovina and he was a stranger and we all respected him. Now that we need to have our Ombudsman for Bosnia and Herzegovina, we don't want to do that all of a sudden. We won't. Let's vote we won't finish the job. I don't really think we should discuss this anymore. I think we have a statement here. I think that the Commission has worked consciously, I think that we have two, three times extended this law to agree, and it could also be said on the Constitutional and Legal Commission that there is no legal basis and then we would be in charge of the Council of Ministers to do what they should have done. However, the Commission has said that it has a basis and I repeat that I have suggested going to the Ministry of Agriculture. The Commission said it had no basis and 63 I then felt that it had ended my parliamentary work, and that simply the law could not come to order. So here, by respecting and saying both the Constitutional and Legal Commission and the Human Rights Commission, I think it's a condition for us to come forward, so if the law passes, it goes away, if it doesn't pass. I think we can say then let it go in the process properly. I don't think there's any point in discussing it anymore, because really the law and the commission have been working on finding a compromise that has been met, I would say the amendments that Mr. Novaković gave and the amendments given by the HDZ Club, that is, that is, we've discussed it and I think it's been adopted the way it is. Therefore, the Komsiija has made a proposal, and I think, Mr President, that we cannot plead otherwise. I ask you once to start working in that sense if the Commission does something, don't insist on waiting and asking if anyone will or won't. I think we did all the work we needed. Whether the Commission was unanimous is not important, but it is basically so.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20190	Thank you. The replica of counterpart Belkić is true.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20191	There's a kind of clarification apro after Mr. Martin Raguž's debate in the same way he tried to explain it to some. I mean, here's the thing, and I'm trying to make it clear with Mr. Raguž to keep it clear what I wanted to say. Of course, it is possible for me to say so symbolically about the spirit of three persons wanted to express dissatisfaction with the situation that also in this area, when it comes to human rights, human rights, etc. We're getting into a legal project a total dose of mistrust. So we want to have three faces, have each of our own in some way, etc. So that's the essence of my remarks. Why not Bosnia and Herzegovina's ombusmen? The internal organisation may have an assistant, etc., can be divided by areas of children's rights, these rights, gender equality etc. But my people, even if the universality of human rights shows no confidence in each other's peoples, we put them in a position of practicality, this is nevertheless the implications of introducing an outcast to every nation of his. Even though it says here, it doesn't mean everyone won't do everything, etc. That's what I was talking about. It's not about the European standard or the standard anymore, it's about whether we're on that level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20192	Thank you. counterpart Jahić answered the word, and Mara Perkanović answered. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I would like as president, chairing this committee to visit for a few things. So this is, this law is one of those 16 conditions, and the last post-war commitment so Bosnia and Herzegovina's admission to the Council of Europe. For almost a year and a half, we have this law in the parliamentary procedure and, as we just had words of pride and praise, this Parliament should now have words to say criticism of Parliament's work on this law. And we are very insecure about this, this law and these obligations against the Council of Europe. That's the first thing. This bill is, as you know it once was in parliamentary procedure and it fell. What, so he's back in the commission phase, etc. What is very important is I would like to remind you that we now have a situation that, first of all, I would like to say that for a year, a year and a half in the procedure that on several occasions we have sought the opinion of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska and last here are 4-5 months and Mr Novaković and I have also personally called on the president of the Assembly, vice president of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska to state their position. They always said there was no problem that they would support it, but there was no way that would come on the agenda and we couldn't wait. So in June, we lost 2-3 months. We could've finished this whole thing back then. We've been waiting for that procedure to be completed. It's not over. We have to go. We have to move forward. What is therefore very strange, then, when we had the last time in the procedure, so now those who claim to have the opinion of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska voted in favour of that bill. They voted for that bill. Even then, there were three outposts left. But now that we have made another solution, the opinion of the National Assembly is now required. So then there shouldn't have been a transfer of power, and here we go. So we really made a compromise. Look, so we have a condition that in Bosnia and Herzegovina he was therefore a foreigner, so we have three outposts from three different nationalities. And now we have an ombus institution at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So one institution in which the truth has therefore representatives of three peoples, etc. The one who knows the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Ombudsman knows that people are really working responsibly, and when this institution is established, it really raises the level of respect for human rights to a higher level that they certainly do not work on a national basis, but that they are doing this work in a good way. And to me, this is a certain transitional phase in some foreseeable period when we will have either just one outpost for Bosnia and Herzegovina, or it will form in areas like it does in some countries. So this is the fact that it's also brought together with the representatives of the international community, so it's in line with the Council of Ministers, and I think I really shouldn't. And I also know these amendments, so here we have to confess to Mr. Raguž who really made a series of amendments that are compromises and that we adopted and almost unanimously. And even some amendments, so Mr. Novaković and Mr. Raguž are almost identical. So we no longer have anything to do on the Commission, and we have that we really need to be serious, very irresponsible about this law. Very irresponsible and under the obligations of the Council of Europe. Now it's really hard to tell what to do. Do you think maybe even if it's a problem, if the law falls, and obviously it's such a thing that it's going to fall, I don't believe there's anything we can do on the Commission. There's nothing we can do. I'm even afraid we'll have what we have now. So should we take 15-20 days, a month, and send a memo, so as far as I have information, it's not a disputed statement of the National Assembly, but here's absolutely five months, we're lost to when it's going to come out. There's always some fuss over there, some panic all the time. There's no way that's gonna get on the agenda. So we have an obligation and I'm asking you all to think about it together. Maybe we should take another month, but then you won't return to the Commission anymore, but we'll ask the National Assembly to answer this question immediately. So it is not disputed to put it to be another item of the agenda at the next session and to say that nothing is disputed. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20194	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we can, Mrs. Perkanović, just a second. So, if we can, I agree with counterpart Jahić that we are looking for a maximum exit. The ugliest message is that the law falls, we have not fulfilled the obligation, and if there is a availability to say here that by the end of October we will have the strength to adopt it, but to take the time by the end of October and to conclude that we will turn to the National Assembly of Republika Srpska to state its position. Is he positive or negative, about this, so that we can solve this problem actively. Let's do it that way, no matter what we might be doing in it right now, we can look for a flaw in this one or that one. But I think it's much better. Believe me, since I have here, here's the report and the commission. It says the Council of Ministers was, etc. etc. So I think it's much better than having a vote today that the law doesn't pass. I think we can create an atmosphere to get to the law, and that's why we have to try. So I'd like you to help me. I know that many will be for, many against etc. But the goal of this story is to get to the law and the goal is Mom Novaković, as far as I understand it, so he wasn't talking about the essence, but just to create a framework so that we don't get into an empty proletical debate and where the ombus will have more work to do, so we don't do him any more work. So here's what I'd like to ask you to come to, if possible to the conclusion. So I'm not arguing. Here, please. Let's just listen to Mrs. Perkanović and close the debate, and we'll take 10 minutes off. Okay. Okay. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20195	Speaks immediately
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20196	No, no, no. Look, I'll make communication. You see, if it's done, there's no need to conclude anything. So we're just prolonging a statement to get to the law. And me, we'll do what needs to be done. It's not a problem. Here's my colleague Perkanović. So give up your break. Okay, okay. Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20197	Here's after my discussion. I also want to make one clarification in the summary that I am a member of the Human Rights Commission. It has been stated on the Commission about the amendments, but Mr Raguž and Mr Momčilo Novaković. And I must draw attention to the fact that up to one amendment, Mr. Martin Raguž has been respected and voted, so that no amendment has been passed. Therefore, in order not to make a comment here imputing as literally if it had been unanimously adopted as it is and that Mr. Novaković's amendments were not valid because the vote was individual. Mr. Raguž's special amendment, especially Mr. Momčilo Novaković's adjectives. The other thing is we've spent a lot of time looking for a solution. However, this search for a solution was not in the direction of seeking a compromise, i.e. agreement and respecting the interests of all parties participating in the talks and negotiations, and I join this proposal as Mr Jahić said, and you too, Mr. Chairman of Špirić, said that we would give some more time to avoid getting into trouble with this law. And it's his vote to leave space means a little more time to come to an agreement with each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20198	Thank you. So there's no new amendment phase. Just to make a deal, there's no new amendment phase. It's all gone. So I'm asking you to give us 20 days of timing, there's no conclusion that we're definitely going to make a statement about the law. So please your mood. That's right. No, no. Let go. So there's no new, new Commission report. We're postponing the plea in 20 days and we're going to end this painful debate today. Can we accept that conclusion? Let's get to the bottom of this. So within 20 days, so here's what we're going to do. We have definitely a statement. There's no conclusion. So that's done. 67 We're closing the debate. We're moving to the 10th point of the agenda. Ad.10. The motion for a resolution on strategic definitions in Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence system, proposed by Mr. Milorad Živković, you know that at last session of the House, we decided to consider the motion for a resolution in the relevant committee. At yesterday's session, the Joint Commission for Defence and Security Policy discussed the motion for a resolution. You have received a report from the Commission. Wait a minute, I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20199	Chairman, are you running a hunting company or Parliament?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20200	I'll answer, just finish what I'm running.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20201	So put it to a vote, if we delay this issue before, then put it to Parliament's vote. How can you do this on your own?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20202	Well, I got the support of the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20203	What kind of support did you get?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20204	General.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20205	Like a little earlier on the previous dot.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20206	We'll put it to a vote now. Okay. Thank you. Please prepare for the vote. Who's to keep the 20-day deadline from coming forward in the last 20 days? Please just don't drag me by my tongue. It's in the interest of the MPs, and in my own personal and hard work. 68 Vote now. Now we'll see who's against, whether this is what they're protesting, or someone else. We'll find the hunter now. Here. - 24 for, 6 against, 3 abstentions. I figure it's a proposal, and we could've done it without a vote, but it's good democratic, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20207	Speaks immediately
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20208	I quietly here should only apologize for what your attitude is. But unfortunately, he can't do that. He can't, so I'm the chairman. When you sit here, apologize to whoever you want. He's not sitting here hard, he's working. Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving to the tenth item of the agenda. So I've already told you the matter is about Resolution, about strategic commitments in the Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence system proposed by Mr. Milorad Živković. We had a decision to go to the board of directors. You've won the position of the committee in charge. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a resolution. Who's answering for a word? Dr. Crescent. Here you go, Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20209	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that this positive atmosphere has previously been violated by this, especially by the people I expect to support the text of this resolution, so that you have made it a little difficult for me to work, but I believe that MPs have had enough time to read this resolution and I believe that, in our opinion, the resolution is, among other things, from the SNSD, the strategic commitment of Bosnia and Herzegovina should be a demitarisation whose most important goal would be to achieve lasting internal stability and to strengthen mutual trust in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We understand that this problem is complex and we are not running away from it, we have given our active, and we have given an active role in defence reform and I think that part of our proposals has been adopted in this. We supported this reform only because it is in line with these strategic definitions and we believe that the laws currently in the procedure in some due time, as you saw in the resolution do not say what time it is, provide opportunities for Bosnia and Herzegovina to be demilitarised in due course. And I think it's vital interest, not only of the Serb people, but also of other peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina and of all the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I guarantee you that time works for us and for this idea that we have drawn up, and the goals, other than the important and most important 69 that I have said are and no less important then that demilitarisation does not harm anyone in the region or beyond, is not incompatible with NATO's demands. general Veber, the commander said on several occasions that if the citizens, the peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina commit to demilitisation that NATO has nothing against it. Not to mention the material components of such an attitude or strategic commitment, we're talking about 300 million dollars, or 300 million KM, which is as planned by the 2006 defence budget should come to our benches to approve. These are not small funds that have fallen into Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy, and young people who expect us to support them in this direction are grateful. Although I have a business opportunity of 20 minutes to explain this resolution and I could read it from A to Z, but realizing what we are in the moment of defence reform, I would be happy to have the MPs give their opinion on it and if there is an amendment to deliver for this item of the agenda so that we can discuss these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-28-0.u20210	Thank you, Dr. President. Zivkovic. I have a feeling that few who are interested in demilitarisation, but here I am opening, I think the law, the draft law has been adopted to contribute to this resolution, and I think it is the SNSD's attempt to demilitarize consciousness in Bosnia and Herzegovina and there will be a need for these resolutions for a long time. Unfortunately, but. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. My fellow Members and MPs, I invite you to prepare for your vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. This isn't a relationship that's for a war that's for peace. - So for 9, versus 15, abstention 6. I konstatuj that the resolution has not won either the majority, nor the entity majority, and that concludes the 10th point of the agenda. Of course, the public won't understand that those who are against war, those who are in favor of peace, but here's democracy. 70 We move to the 11th point of the Ad.11 agenda. Giving consent to ratification: I propose that in the package we vote ratification under a) the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Belarus on the promotion and protection of investments, b) the Sorazum on Defence Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro, c) the Trade Agreement of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Belarus I open the debate. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Who's to give consent to ratification for these agreements? I pray for a little patience from the MPs not to walk, it's still a session. - I figure we're 21 votes against no one, abstention 1. I ask the Republic of Serbia to vote. I ask that the plea be repeated. Get ready to vote. Dr. Crescent. Živković, please sit down. Prepare to vote. Vote now, because I don't see any reason anyone has anything against ratification. - For 26, no one against, two abstentions. Do we have the entity majority and the total majority? So we have ratified the agreement, under a), b) and c) as I have read in the announcement of this item of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, we ended the 66th session. So I'll let you know, you'll get your agenda on Friday at 8:00 on the benches. On Friday, therefore, the 67th session is only two points of the agenda - the Law on Defence and - the Law on the Service of Armed Forces in the Second Reading. At half-eight club presidents' meetings to achieve, try to discuss the amendments. At 5:30 on Friday. So a little early getting up. At 5:30, though, 'cause I'm afraid if someone's doing something early in the morning, they're not gonna skip the tour. The session ended at 4:30.
