ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20742	.... at the 70th session of the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I welcome all present MPs and guests as well as representatives of the media. According to the report of the service of the ladies and gentlemen, 25 MPs attend the session, which means we have a quorum for full and full decision-making. The absence was justified by Abdulah Nakaš, Selim Bešlagić, Dr Petar Kunić and Mirsad Ćeman. The others who did not justify their absence, we expect their presence during the session. But ladies and gentlemen, part of the representatives of our foreign policy commission attends a joint meeting with a group of friendships from the Parliament of Slovenia. We expect them to come to this session when this session is over, but before we go to work, I want the presidents of the clubs to ask, this has already started to be a common phenomenon that we are almost regularly running half an hour late, and that means that the clubs have to sit down for the rest of the days and that the commission can't sit on the day of the plenary session of the House of Representatives, or at least it's not desirable, so I ask you to suggest if you sometimes have to move the session an hour later, that we start at 11 but start on time. Here, I'd like the presidents of the clubs to take care of that. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in the invitation to the session, you received a draft agenda. I would like to inform you that we had a session of the rope and extended College this morning and that we have reached agreement on the agenda, extend from four new points of the agenda, so that you can monitor this innovative agenda, the bold points, that is, point 6, that is, the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Predrdlog Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure, on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. Then, point 7 of the request of Ambassador Milorad Živković for consideration of the draft Law amending the Law on Postes by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure, then the 21st point of appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes in order to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic on the Roads to BiH and the 22nd Point, the appointment of one member in the Joint Commission of both homes to bring the Law on Public TV Service into line, instead of Mr Vink Zorić. We're also within the extended College agreed that today's club presidents, to try not to expand the agenda further, these were points that we couldn't avoid, but to take the time to work intensively today, because here's how you see we have an extensive agenda of 22 points of the agenda. You of course got this consolidated text of the inoculated agenda, you have it in front of you, and I'm opening a debate on the agenda, by oweing you one note. You know that at the last session one item of the agenda was downloaded. It concerned the report on the work of the Intelligence Service for the period 1.1. and 31.12. In 2004. There's been a debate about why it's 2 confidential information. I must say that we have received written text from the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers in which he prays, since he should be the rapporteur under the law, related to this item of the agenda, he prays that this point should not be put on today's session, but firstly, since he is not present today in Sarajevo and remains at the stage of the stand-still that has been indicated and for this we have reached the agreement that this be the point of the agenda at the next session. It was also a request from Mr Moranjkić to try to hold some debate on relations with the CIA, the Ministry of Transport and Communications. You also know it was a request from the SDP of BiH, Dr Laugmdžija last time. We have sent written information to the Council of Ministers, we expect them to send written material and also be a part of the agenda at the next session. Here, I made these remarks just to maybe prevent or avoid unnecessary debates when it comes to this, so that we did not go over it without a clear explanation, and that is, the College did not make the decision on its own initiative, but at the request of the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Momčilo Novaković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20743	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to ask both the Chairman and the College of the Chairman, when it schedules meetings to take care of facts such as today's case that today is Mitrov's day, that it is great with us Orthodox great saints and that it would be good for those who wish to attend the prayer at 10:00 a.m. to allow them to attend, which practically means that the sessions should then be scheduled or an hour later meant or avoided to make appointments on such days and I think it is acceptable for them to be scheduled at 11:00 a.m.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20744	Thank you. Who's still picking up the word on the agenda? Dr. Lagumdžija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20745	For the sake of precision, Mr. Chairman, if I understand you correctly, since in the minutes we adopt under the next item of the agenda, there are these obligations that you have now spoken of, does that mean that for the agenda point regarding the CRA or the Public Service and the problems related to the whole, please, I, I apologize to the RAC, I am sorry in historical categories. Uh, so are we going to get information on whether this means that the chairman promised us that we would get information from the Council of Ministers in writing and that we would talk about it next time? Because here in the conclusion that is also stated in the record, I just want to remind you, the conclusion was that it was a whole set of issues concerning the overall issue of the RAC not only of the transfer of money but of the whole issue of relations with the RAC, which includes licensing and changing the telecommunications sector, i.e. licensing for the third generation of these operators. 3 So can we expect it in writing? Do we today, I am in favour of not discussing today if we get written, but this means that today we conclude that they have promised us that we will receive in writing and that representatives of the institutions that we speak of both the Public Service and the RAC, as Beriz would say, or the Council of Ministers, come to us here. That's one thing. Secondly, did I understand, Mr. Chairman, that the degree of secrecy at this stage is not removed, and that at the next session of the House of Representatives, we will have the Prime Minister on this subject and that we will then determine whether the degree of secrecy stands or not? Or do we need to make that clear today?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20746	Here, of course, I'll try to give an answer. Of course, after the session of the extended session, I sent a letter to the Council of Ministers asking for written information regarding the relationship between RAC and the Ministry of Transport and Communications. We have no written information and I am against it, of course, to discuss without material, because I see that there is no one on behalf of the Council of Ministers who could elaborate this problem in front of MPs and I think we should wait for written information, that this is the point of the agenda, where on the basis of valid written material as MPs, we will conduct a debate. When the second item of the agenda, of course, is here, that's what I can tell you, when the second item of the agenda is, the report on the work of the Intelligence Service, I have written information in which the chairman asks that there be no agenda point today, because he's physically not in Sarajevo, he can't attend the session's work. And when it comes to the level of secrecy, he says the Council of Ministers remains in a certain degree of secrecy of that information. We can't even conduct a discussion, take it down, according to the law of the level of secrecy of that information. But when the agenda comes and we have a rapporteur in the image of the Council of Ministers, we will discuss all segments. So there's going to be a agenda at the next session, because the chairman is begging us, and I think we should respect those reasons because he's not present today. That's all I can tell you about that information. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20747	So, we, if I understand you correctly, the chairman remains in this position to remain a degree of secrecy. But we can't conclude today that this degree of secrecy will remain, so we'll talk about it when this item comes to the agenda, which means my recommendation to Mr. Chairman is, that this one, try to calmly clarify the status of this material until the next session, because here I want, as I did rarely, to say that we as SDP will not participate in this item of the agenda if this degree of secrecy is maintained. And then we'll take all the law of the planned activity, let the public know why we're doing it. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20748	I thank Dr. Lagumdžija. I also want to say, that this suggestion of Mr. Novaković, that we will take care and in any case we should also have a requirement when, therefore, it is very difficult and I regret that there has been this misunderstanding today but if we had information that we should start at 11:00, we would start at 11:00, until we reach the holiday and celebration law at the state level in BiH, we must respect the requirements of clubs. Is there anyone else to answer for? Here you go, Huskić, Mr. Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20749	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, dear guests, I suggest we conclude today that for the next session, the Secretariat prepares us to review the conclusions of this house that are not realised and that are not. The reason for this is our conclusion with 63. I think it was the 63rd session, where this house concluded that the Council of Ministers provided the Information on the state of production and with a special reference to agricultural production, so it was concluded that this information was presented at the next session, which was only the day before, and that deadline was extended to 65th session on the proposal of counterpart Zorić. It's being held today in 70th and there's no such information. I don't know what other conclusions I can't remember right now which other conclusions are standing by and their deadlines are up and there's no information, so I suggest we do it all together in one piece of information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20750	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate, ladies and gentlemen, and I'm realizing that we've adopted the next agenda, Agenda 1. Record of the 69th House of Representatives session, 2. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. Commission Report from the College on Efforts to reach an agreement on the Financial Report of the Commission and the Budget on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 4. Commission Report from the College on Efforts to reach an agreement on the Constitutional and Legal Commission Report on the Proposal for a Law on the Foundations of Geomatics of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 5. Commission Report from the College on Efforts to reach an agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Mladen Potočnik from the 69th session of the House, 6. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Citizenship of BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 7. The request of MP Milorad Živković to discuss the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Postes of BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law amending the Law on Public Procurement of BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 5 9. Proposal for a law on indirect taxation, second reading, 10. Proposal for a law on forced collection of indirect taxes in BiH, second reading, 11. Proposal for a law on the prevention and prevention of drug abuse, first reading, 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Human Rights of BiH, First Reading, 13. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Taxes, first reading, 14. Proposal for a Framework Law on Higher Education of BiH, with a report by the Constitutional-Pave Commission, 15. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Code on Value Added Tax with the Commission's Financial and Budget Report, 16. Proposal for a decision on the organisation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat, 17. A review of donations for BiH in the period '96-2005, 18. Proposal for a candidate for members of the Office for Appeals, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, 19. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Research Commission for the Study of Activities for the Construction of the Customs Terminal in Tuzla, Proposer Selim Bešlagić, 20. Giving consent to ratification, (a) Agreement on the acquisition of the role of co-founder of the BiH Institute of Missing Persons between the Council of Ministers and the International Commission on Missing Persons, (b) Agreement on the provision of air services between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, (c) Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Macedonia on Social Insurance, (d) Administrative Agreement for the implementation of the Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Macedonia on Social Insurance, (e) Note of the Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Slovenia on the conditions of the secret transfer of part of the Republic of Slovenia's Detective for the benefit of BiH, 21. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes in order to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Fundamentals of Transport Security of BiH and 22. The appointment of one member to the Joint Commission of both homes to bring the Law on Public TV Services into line, instead of Vink Zorić. This would be the agenda, by asking us to accept this suggestion, so that we do not vote on the conclusion of Mr Huskić, so that the competent service prepares an analysis of the conclusions of this House of Parliament, so that one point of the agenda of the next session is devoted to the debate on how the conclusions of the Parliamentary Council of BiH are carried out. That makes us ladies and gentlemen, if Comrade Huskić agrees? It's a lie, thank you. So that's what ended the debate on the agenda. So, we move to the first item of the agenda, that's ad.1. The adoption of the minutes from the 69th session of the House of Representatives I am opening the debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 6 So I find that, with 26 votes, for, unanimously without votes against, abstentions, we have adopted the minutes from the 69th session of the House of Representatives. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. That's it, Ad2. MPs' questions and answers Answers to questions were received by MPs Adem Huskić, Beriz Belkić, Mirsad Ćeman, Muhamed Moranjkić. Is there a need to comment fellow answers to questions? Comrade Belkić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20751	I'll do it very briefly. So, I got the answer and I'm satisfied but I'm bitter and disappointed that a year and a half of the process and procedure of establishing the BiH Insurance Agency, a very important institution, is taking place. So, the answer is that for procedural reasons of alignment, etc. The agency didn't start working. I know this won't have any special effect, I'm just warning really that the reasons people state why they don't establish certain structures... for BiH are indeed unacceptable and inexplicable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20752	Thank you. A colleague of Moranjkić wants to comment, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20753	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've received a practical response to half the answer and I'm satisfied with it, with what I expect is the main answer, which is why this answer is set. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20754	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to comment? He doesn't want to. Here's a chance to ask MPs questions. Who's answering for a word? Here you go. Here's my colleague Suljkanović, then Mlaćo.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20755	My first question is, in fact, the repetition of requests from several months ago and regarding the obligation of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Resorship Ministry, to inform the House of Representatives every three months about the situation of activities relating to the construction of the highway on the Vc corridor. In an explanation, I can say that you all remember that we decided long ago to take an active position when it comes to the highway on the Vc corridor and this obligation was by the Council of Ministers, or the Resord Ministry to inform us about it. Unfortunately, all that is related to the activity of the construction of the highway on the Vc corridor, that is, in this first phase of design planning documentation, we get this information from the media and we have one complete ignoring of that obligation and I would have used this route to polish on our college to remind or ask the Council of Ministers to keep us, to fulfil their obligation. As far as the second question is concerned, it has no address, I don't know who to direct it to and it may be more initiatives for Parliament to engage in activities related to the opening of Stabilisation and Association negotiations. Namely, you all know what's been going on lately, regarding the determination of the main negotiator, and as far as I know, the only activities so far have been what we could see in one TV show at the meeting of the chairman, Mr Špirić, colleagues of Lagumdžija and Mr Terzić. There were talks about candidates, but it looks like those first candidates were also this one, sacrificed to carry out their shot to put it that way. I think that, in this increasingly active role of Parliament, it would be necessary. Certainly we need to do something very urgent right now. So this would be more of an initiative for our college to do something about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20756	Thank you. My kolegica Mlaćo,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20757	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, we have witnessed the outbreaks of bird flu in our further and closer environment. Also, infectious diseases do not know the borders of states or even continents, given the importance of animal health and, of course, its impact in a direct and indirect manner and in the health of people and citizens, and also given the importance of protecting and stimulating poultry production in BiH, I would like to refer my semi-sanitary question to the Council of Ministers, respectively, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, specifically the BiH Veterinary Office. What has been done so far on the state plan, or strategy against the outbreak of bird flu in BiH? And my question, it also means the answer, what has been done to this day and to make and finance measures to prevent disease, in prevention and possible eradication measures of infectious diseases in the event of Bog do not occur. And the second question, BiH has a qualified and quality expertise dealing with this issue. It's veterinary medicine and, of course, health care doctors of different levels of scientific calling. I ask if there are laboratories in BiH, especially reference laboratories that are technically equipped and trained to diagnose or detect bird flu. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20758	Thank you. My colleague Belkić asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20759	So, I have a question for the BiH Court of Justice, or the Criminal Department. It reads; how many procedures have been initiated and completed for the execution of decisions on the confiscation of property, are meant for money and property within the meaning of Article 192(2) of the Law on the execution of judicial sanctions? Reason, we've received information here, I don't know if all MPs have received information from the prosecution. The information is at the request of the College as far as I understand, in which 8 The Prosecutor's Office in addition to listing the number of cases of conduct, amounts, etc. notifys at the end that it is not competent to carry out confiscation procedures, etc. and points us to the Court of Justice of BiH, or the Penalty Department, so I, by this question, tried to get us an answer on how many of these illegally acquired property benefits have been taken away. In my view, this is more of an argument for us to discuss once again the need to adopt a law on the confiscation of acquired assets, illegally acquired assets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20760	Thank you. Who's on the phone? Nobody's answering. Comrade Križanović, insolete.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20761	I thank the chairman. 16.9. therefore, at the 65th session of the House of Representatives, I remind you that we have supported an initiative to form a parliamentary committee or commission, which should carry out the selection procedure for the BiH anthem. At that time, I tried to suggest certain conclusions that would maintain some continuity in the process. However, the dom did not support this by explaining that the College would do everything possible to carry out that conclusion, that is, to carry out the procedure. Since it will already be two months since then, I'm asking a specific question to the College of our home. When, then, will they appoint this working group, or committee, commission, as you will and will determine its mandate and deadlines for this job?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20762	I thank my colleague Križanović. Lozančić,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20763	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, very often in the daily and weekly press, so it can be said daily, I read about various embezzlements, crime, robbery but also about enormous tax evasion. Recently, I read in a daily newspaper that two entrepreneurs whose initials had only been published had hidden 16 million and 161 thousand KM in this year and that 28 million KM in the first nine months had been swept away. And tax authorities argue that this other evasion is related to the existence of fictitious companies in our premises and that this is an enormous problem for the work of tax authorities that cannot possibly be calculated with fictitious companies. They stress that 15 criminal charges have been filed this year and that so far we have only two rulings regarding this type of business. So my question for the Council of Ministers is, how is it going to speed up and where in the list of priorities to put this task, to calculate with fictitious firms, and to sort of fill the budget, or to speed up and be more efficient when it comes to tax evasion?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20764	Thank you. I'm a colleague of Andrić. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20765	Thank you, Mr. President. And I have no parliamentary question, but I would give one initiative to the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency, and it consists of the following. To review last year's emissions for 60 minutes and take appropriate measures from its jurisdiction towards FTV and of course the main responsible editor of that emissions. sobzir I remind her on last night's show, he called one component of the Federation Army a criminal organisation, which is now part of the BiH Armed Forces. I don't think he has the right to do that and that he has violated all norms and legal codes of conduct and humane. I therefore ask the CRA to review the emissions, take measures from its jurisdiction and report to Parliament and myself personally on the measures taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20766	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20767	I have a question for the Council of Ministers and that is very brief and clear. Am I going to get an answer to three questions at the 69th session of October 25th?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20768	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll just, you won't mind me coming out after I chair, no coelga Martin, my question is the Council of Ministers, too. If the Council of Ministers intends to conclude the Treaty on Co-operation with the NGO sector, since BiH's path to signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is accelerated, it seems to me that we would get a much more positive climate if, by 17 December, the Council of Ministers concluded such an agreement because all countries in the environment and all those that were last EU accession. That would be my question. So, we move to the third item of the agenda. That's Ad.3. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach an agreement on the Commission's Finance Report and Budget on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises of BiH, proposed by Dr Zlatko Lagumdžija, Joza Križanović and selo Bešlagićaž, Potsjeć you that at the 69th session, the Commission's Finance and Budget Report did not receive an entity majority. In the College, as the Commission, a process of harmonisation was carried out. You've received a report on the alignment. So no consensus has been reached and we are moving to the second round of voting. It's business. I just want to inform you, if two-thirds of an entity votes in the second round of voting against the report, the report has not been adopted. This would lead to a further 10 procedures with new guidelines and deadlines for delivering a new report. If there were no two-thirds against it, the report would have been considered adopted and the law would have fallen in that case. I invite you ladies and gentlemen to prepare for the vote. Vote now. Those who are against the report vote. So for 1, versus 4, abstention 0. I konstatovati that the Commission's report has been adopted. The law is considered denied. Please ask for a re-election. I even gave you an interpretation, I know what this is about. So, Mr. Križanović, you're asking that the vote be repeated. Get ready, say, maybe it's not a problem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20769	About this conclusion of ours, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20770	Yes, it is. It is the Commission's report and the negative report has been and are now voting, it needs two-thirds so that only those against the reports vote. Against, yes. So, get ready, is it clearer now? Wait a minute, we have to have patience for each other. Here you go, Dr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20771	This is the Commission's report on the achievement of an agreement on amendments to the Excise Act. Because last time, the Commission report was not accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20772	Yeah, he didn't get the entity majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20773	Of course. And today, practically, if he votes us enough against, then Zakono Excise Act has passed, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20774	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20775	So whoever's for the Excise Act should be against, I'm fine, going into procedure. Thank you. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20776	So, please prepare for the vote. It's the ones who are against it. For one against eleven, abstention by no one. From the Federation v. 8, from RS 3. So we don't have two-thirds against it. So the conclusion is unfortunately not adopted. We're crossing, so the law has failed. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda, Add.4. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach an agreement on the Constitutional and Legal Commission's report on the draft law on the foundations of the geomatics of BiH, MEP Mirsad Ćeman, we have the same representation as in the previous point. So the Constitutional and Legal Commission report, which is negative, didn't get an entity majority. We have not reached agreement in the framework of the College. I invite you, then, to plead. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Only those who are against the report vote, right? So against 11, 1 abstention, 9 of the Federation, 2 of the RS. So this conclusion has the same fate as sub-assembly number three, so no law has been passed. We're moving to the fifth item of the agenda, Add.5. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach an agreement on the draft conclusion of Mr Mladen Potočnik from the 69th session of the House as you know, Mr Potočnik, at the 69th session in the framework of the debate on the draft agenda, suggested that the House adopt the conclusion of the following content. The BiH Parliament demands a public debate on the southern point of exit to the sea of corridor Vc. The proposal for a conclusion did not receive an entity majority, so the coordination procedure was carried out in the College as the Commission. You've received a report from the College. So no consent has been reached. Prepare to vote. It's the ones who are against it. Here, you wanted, here you go, but now you're just taking the voting procedure, we've had the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20777	Well, nothing, I just wanted to explain once again the importance of what I suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20778	And that's already a final debate. So it's just a voting technique, everyone knows I guess. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20779	I know we're all voting together, but I just want to point out to the MPs the importance of this debate because it's a matter of state interest. And that's why a public debate is needed. And I ask the MPs to have before their eyes the interest of BiH, to vote in favour of my proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20780	Prepare to vote. Vote now. Only those who are against it vote, right? So against 7.6 from the Federation and 1 from RS. I find that this conclusion also has the fate of the conclusions under points 3 and 4, so this conclusion has not been passed by a fellow Potočnik. Moving to the sixth item of the agenda, Add.6. The request of the Council of Ministers for consideration of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure This draft law was delivered yesterday by the Council of Ministers with a request for an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. You have seen that this is about changes that treat the citizenship of naturalised persons and define the reasons why people who have gained BiH citizenship by naturalisation can be deprived of citizenship, procedures, and the authority's authority to take a decision to take citizenship. I hope you're familiar with this problem because the longer it was discussed through the media of certain organs. You received the bill this morning, and if anyone in the name of the promoter wants to explain it, he has a chance. If anyone wants to explain this proposal on behalf of the Council of Ministers. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20781	I, on behalf of the Demokršćanin Club, am proposing that this goes into 104 because here there are eight pages of written text to be read too much. I failed this, especially my colleagues who got it here on the benches, I got it around 9:15 at an extended college. I don't think the law is so short that we could just raise our hand here for him and support him in such an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20782	I thank my colleague Zorić. Who's next to the word? Mr. Belkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20783	I understand Mr Zorić, but this morning in Colgia, an extended College, we had the opportunity to discuss the possibility or inability to put this law on the agenda and 13 we agreed to put it on the agenda. Of course, of course, I respect your definition. The Party for BiH MPs' club will support it for the importance of matter and for the general knowledge of the things it is brought about, this is the result of all reports, all of our discussions, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20784	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. So get ready to vote, we're voting on procedure. Vote now. So for 25, 5 against, 2 abstentions. We have the entity majority and the total majority. So I agree that we have accepted the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act on Citizenship of BiH, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. Now I'm opening a debate on the bill. Who's answering for a word? Dr. Lagumdžija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20785	Mr. Chairman, this is a law that should help to establish order after 10 years, since the commitments made in the Dayton Agreement were not implemented by those who were to execute in the first few years after Dejton. So it is an extremely important issue that has been brought here several times before Parliament. So I'd ask before I take part, so we're for this area to finally be settled in the right way, but I'm asking for someone to give us an introduction to this because this isn't about a simple law, it's about an emergency law. This is not a simple law at all, and I would therefore ask for the precision of certain things that should be specified in order to be able to act non-amendan, because we cannot act amendmentically, then we can eventually define ourselves for some additional conclusions under this law. I'd ask someone to give us an explanation before the Council of Ministers. So, I get it, I get it, but it works for the public. There's no need for me to make the opening remarks for this. Or you. Or an existing commission, but let us be given the Council of Ministers and then we all know what we voted on and what this is about and why we're doing this.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20786	Thank you, I've already called the Council of Ministers, if he feels the need to, to give an opening explanation. Here's what I don't know if there's anyone on behalf of the Council of Ministers who wants to do it, or who has the job to do it. Dr Gligorić responded, while the Council of Ministers held consultations.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20787	Well, I didn't really answer, so I can go while they're on. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I agree that certain introductory remarks should be made by the motionary. BiH has been dealing with this problem for many years. We had a commission of our own, which was this, provided for in the Law of Citizenship. After that, when her mandate ended and the 14th Parliamentary Assembly extended her deadline, she stopped working in the meantime. Last time I talked about the commission formed by the Council of Ministers, which was more because of 9/11 when it happened in the United States, that commission didn't actually do anything. In the meantime, it was contrary to the law because the Council of Ministers could not determine, could determine the commission but could not give this kind of mandate since this was foreseen by law. And now with these amendments and the amendments to the law, we are now going to get that commission which is to be resolved in the next year or if it is the longest to extend once more by Parliament, but more so, from a year ago, you cannot. The law makes it impossible to extend it, and that's good on that side. Just what we've had so far, an illegal piece of work, would now, by law or by law, install it, that kind of commission and give it some authority to solve this issue. And of course, I agree that the problem remains for all those years, that the issue of naturalised persons has not been resolved at all in BiH, that this is a taboo topic that is not being entered, with one part of the naturalised people who were in the former Yugoslavia, in a way and now we let through a small door. But come on, we can consider it liberal in, say, citizenship to get, here we take an example in Serbia, can ask for every citizen of the former Yugoslavia and consider it liberal and why BiH would not make it possible for citizens who want it from the former Yugoslavia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20788	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. Ladies and gentlemen, Dr. Lagumdžija, please. Well, you see, I'm the only one who's going to take my hand out. I'm giving you a chance who wants to talk. Deputy Minister, Mr. Mektić, you won't. I'm closing the debate. Dr. Lagumdžija, please. Well, nobody has to if they don't, that's practice.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20789	Okay, I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, that we've come into this situation. We will support this law as the SDP Club. The public needs to know, this is about the commitment the state summit has made with the right to the international community to show some gesture of goodwill, to get the state into a decisive cleanup, with the problematic citizenships generated by the Dayton Agreement to date. And this is good. It's a good thing this state structure has accepted to try to realize that commitment. You know, as MPs, we had a few questions and information sent to us by that review committee that was actually through the Council of Ministers as a flow water heater, and we spoke to them as legislators to explain the interpretation of the commission and the Council of Ministers for not doing their job. It is the fact that a large number of citizens of this country, precisely for reasons of passing this law, are waiting today at the visas of world embassies, at the door of world embassies to get visas. Every citizen of this country is a suspected citizen at every border crossing for the reasons why this law is passed. That's what you need to know. And I'm sorry that the chairman of the Council of Ministers who, by the way, has been told, Mr. Chairman, is not out of the country, is not on the way, but the floor is above us, but it doesn't matter. He was supposed to come out here and tell us what this is about. We need to give full support to the reasons for this law, to give full support to this law, and to give the commitment to people not to say on the tenth anniversary of Dayton, we passed the law, but to say on the tenth anniversary of 15 Dejton we passed the law and we started working on it. So that's the essence of the whole story. And since we voted to go by article 105, because knowing us, if it wasn't for 105, it would never have been done again. I propose, Mr. Chairman, that as Parliament, by adopting this law, by voting for it, I do not ask Parliament to express its dissatisfaction, by such an act and by the behaviour of the Council of Ministers in such a capital matter, because it does not objectively lead us anywhere. But I propose the conclusion of Mr. Chairman, along with this law, it is the Council of Ministers that the implementation of this law is being notified by Parliament in regular monthly information and that the Parliament on the implementation of this law is being shown at its meetings. In other words, I'll formulate now, I'll give you this. In other words, Mr. Chairman, we should be monthly informed of what the Commission has been doing over the past month. And then, at the end of the quarter, we have information about where people in charge of this are going to come to us here, to say what they did in those three months, so that they could possibly be supported. This is why I am saying this, Mr. Chairman, if we accept this, knowing us, the law will be passed, a commission will be formed, and then this commission will explain why it did not work in the new assembly of Parliament. And that's not the purpose of this law. The purpose of this law is to finally introduce order in this area, as a basic assumption that every citizen of this country is not suspicious, if not in his country, when he leaves the country for a temporary stay as a tourist, a businessman or as a free man of this country. So I would ask, therefore, that, by adopting this law, we also make a statement about this conclusion, because not accepting one such conclusion means that we are actually lying to ourselves and to those we promised to make this law. I don't want to participate in the deception of myself, the public and Bogami and our friends who want to help us.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20790	Thank you. Mr. Zorić is answering for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20791	I'm staying with myself, and I haven't read this law, I respect those who know this, what it's about and what it's read, but it's been happening so far that we're getting the rules on Cyrillic, so we're rebelling a little bit, so the Srbin are getting on the Latin, so they're getting a little rebel, but I've now got a law where in three words, here I've only been able to read Article 8, in three words we have both Cyrillic and Latin. Thus, in one word not in one text or in one sentence, but in one word we have both Cyrillic and Latin. And probably since no one read it, he didn't even notice. Because at first I said no one read, because they couldn't read. Here I am now only able to do Article 8 and I found three words containing both Cyrillic and Latin.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20792	Thank you. Who's on the phone for the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. 16 Ladies and gentlemen, prepare to vote on the law. Vote now. For 24, against 2, abstention 2, 14 from the Federation, 10 from Republika Srpska. I therefore conclude that we have adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of BiH by an urgent procedure. And now, ladies and gentlemen, we have an obligation to state the conclusion of Dr. Lagumdžija, which I am referring to the relationship between the intensive implementation of this law which is not bad. Just give me the conclusion that I can read it if it's not long. It therefore owes the Council of Ministers that, to implement this law, Parliament is notifying on a regular basis monthly basis and in the Sumarly Quarterly Information of which Parliament will be shown. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So for 24, 2 versus, 1 abstention. I understand we've adopted Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's conclusion. And that's how we get the conditions to move to the seventh item of the agenda, which is Ad.7. The request of MP Milorad Živković to discuss the draft Law amending the Law on Postes of BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. Ambassador Milorad Živković in the parliamentary procedure The draft law delivered on 3 November 2005 with a request for an emergency procedure under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. If the promoter wants an additional explanation, I call on him to do so. Here you go, Dr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20793	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, may I remind you that in the conclusion of the 55th session, this House of 20.4.2005 required the Council of Ministers to define the headquarters of the Post Office in BiH within one month of the day of the publication of the Law on Postage of BiH. As you can see, six months have passed since then, we still don't have the Agency's post office and I think it's our duty as the most responsible law-making body and to control their implementation to submit and a proposal for amending and supplementing the law when the need arises. The law is to say that it cannot be implemented for the simple reason that we, this Parliament, are in a position to adopt this law at all, agreed to give the Council of Ministers enough time for a month to come out of office. As this was not done, I believe that the need for a 105th member of the Rules of Procedure has been opened here and that the law, unlike the previous law, is not so complicated that it could not be read in one reading that, yes, therefore, I ask my employees to respect the reason why I have stated that it is going according to Article 105 and to return the possibility of passing laws to this Parliament and to the Council of Ministers who, as we see it, were not able to do so. And I'm going to point out that at the last session, I've also asked MPs for questions and answers, to be told orally about this one, here's how long it's been, 15 days, whether the seat is set, what is the function. However, the Council of Ministers did not want to go out and say what degree or process of adoption it is... so I think it is the obligation of each of the MPs here to unblock this law. Thank you. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20794	I thank my colleague Živković. Who wants to report for a hearing about the procedure? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. I call upon you to plead. So get ready to vote, we're voting on procedure. Vote now. I ask the MPs to vote. For 13, against 12.2 abstentions, 4 from the Federation, 9 from Republika Srpska. We don't have an entity majority. We don't have any colleagues here, Raguž. So we're staying for the next session. Such is business, therefore, business opportunities. Moving to the eighth point of the agenda, Add.8. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law amending the Law on Public Procurement of BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 104. On 18 October 2005, the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers delivered the proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Procurement with a request for consideration under Article 104. The rules of procedure of this house. You've won the bill. I'm opening a motion hearing. So, we're discussing procedure. Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20795	This is a very similar situation, of course, already seen. Parliament is constantly being or not to be, it must be extended, etc. Indeed, when it comes to this second, the third extension of the deadlines for the establishment of the Board of Appeal, etc. Public procurement agencies and offices should really explain why it didn't work out. We will support, in order to implement the whole reform, i.e. the process of establishment, etc. But it's really human and it's a matter of home education to go out and say, gentlemen, we can't form an office for a year and a half, we can't establish an agency, because of that and that. I'm really calling on the legislator to explain it to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20796	We're only discussing procedure here.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20797	Well, that's exactly why, just so you could determine the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20798	Okay. Who's coming forward for the debate? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. 18 Prepare to vote. Vote now. So for 17, 1 versus, 2 abstentions. 12 from the Federation, 5 from Republika Srpska. I agree that we have accepted the proposal of the Council of Ministers to discuss the draft law amending the Law on Public Procurement of BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda, that's Ad.9. Proposal for a law on indirect taxation, second reading, as you know, at the 69th session of this bill, we adopted the proposal in our first reading. I remind you that we have 22 amendments to Tihomir Gligorić and four amendments to Mr Mirsad Ćeman. At the last session, we suggested that clubs try to agree on amendments to make it easier for us to get to the law now. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the argument. We're going to go to the Amandans. Mr. Gligorić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20799	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I answered this technique, you're not looking, it looks again when you're just waving your hands. The purpose of the proposed amendments, I speak for mine, is to protect BiH's economy through the protection of taxpayers. I believe that taxpayers should be protected through the level of tight interest because the proposed interest of 0.06% is thought of daily, is green interest and therefore the amendments I have invested prevent the billing of interest on interest, the greening of subsequent burdens at 10%, which is very important. Then, the settlement based on the legacy, I think all of this should be liberalized in another way and I have proposed it in the amendments. Furthermore, the amendments I have proposed strengthen legal certainty by shortening the deadlines of limitations, relatively what they said in the law, the draft law from 5 to 3 years, absolute from 10 to 5, which makes the state's authorities work more efficiently because this is how we stimulate them with the law of unhappiness. The amendments lay down the principle that sanctions can only be imposed by courts because the text of the law makes it unclear whether this right is reserved by the Administration. It's quite clear, and I think we can make it clear to the amendments and remove the dilemmas. The amendments also attempt to transform the chapter on criminal provisions with a view to enabling the survival of economic operators, which is not possible under the proposed provisions. Of course, the amendments also foresee the phasing out of different bodies as well as the postponement of the implementation of the decision in the appeal procedure, the Law on Administrative Dispute, and it does not say, is not contrary to the general interest. So, I think it's appropriate. The administration's proposal on this matter is excluded from the legal system that we already have. I'm glad that one part of the amendment was adopted on the Commission, but they were of a technical nature because we had such nebuloses, so I tried to remove them in terms of punishment for violations. I can't punish the offenses, I guess, infringers or faces, or I don't know how. So we've seen that too, and what's liberal of how restrictively they've written it, I think these amendments are being helped in a lot of ways. I believe that if Members of Parliament met these amendments, they would get a much better law, get precisely defined provisions, remove the dilemmas that allow abuse within the administration. Wherever you leave the dilemma, it will be at the expense of the taxpayer and in this way Parliament would be an accomplice in terms of an irresponsible relationship or abuse within the administration. And I think that in this way and this end, we would get a more efficient administration and now in the bill that the Administration has defined all of this, we have a commercial body that makes money, not a state body that needs to be the service of taxpayers and citizens. Look at this in the law and you'll see, and at the same time in public life, we often call on taxpayers to control the spending of budget funds or any other public funds, because they finance it, and then we put them in this bill at the level of thieves who are not trusted, and even enter constitutional jurisdiction in terms of privacy, so that you can go in there the way you want it, it doesn't matter whether your child or woman bathes, if they're looking for business books. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20800	Often swimming isn't good. I thank Dr. Gligorić. Comrade Novaković, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20801	I thank Mr. Chairman, I must say that part of the amendment that Mr. Gligorić was talking about really deserves one serious one, one serious debate especially in those parts that talk about tight interest, interest rates because the fact is that by this method, I'm afraid we're not going to achieve the goal that we want, which is to get discipline in carrying out our obligations, but we're actually going to get one counterproduct. What I think is not acceptable in these amendments in a number of amendments, concerns those amendments that speak of penalties. So, on sanctions for not fulfilling their obligations because I think that by some more liberal policy, we are not going to help the businessmen, but we are just helping those who do not want to carry out or do not comply. So, real businessmen, we will help by establishing such sanctions that those who are not serious, who are not seriously engaged in this business, actually cannot do and enable the work of those who carry out their duties when it comes to these obligations relating to the Directorate for indirect taxation or, in fact, to this law. So, these amendments are unacceptable to me, and I'm going to go along with that, and I'm going to make a commitment to all these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20802	Thank you. He's a colleague of Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20803	I came forward with a lead of Mr. Gligorić's discussion and he said a series of things that I have no arguments to argue with. It is true that the Directorate for indirect taxation of this law has, gets great and strong powers, even when it comes to certain procedures, it is not common for both the first and second degrees within one body, etc. but we also have similar powers and practices in developed European countries. So, their institutions of this type 20 have such strong powers, and in my opinion, we need to give the administration power and simply, in some way, under quotes, to risk but expecting the responsibility of people in the Administration, that they will realize that their powers, their strength, and it is actually a responsibility to carry out regulations fairly and correctly, not to the harm of anyone. In the end, I'd like to point out to the promoter one problem. We've all consulted with people from the profession, etc. So what I'm saying is, I'm not just saying out of my head, but out of consultation with people, so people have warned that a number of terms and concepts or concepts that are used in this law are not exactly present in our daily legal terminology, so it will be necessary to adapt to the existing administrative and judicial terms that are common practice because of the misunderstanding and misunderstanding of some of the concepts that are here in the law. This is more messages to clarify through sublegal acts, etc. Some concepts. In any case, the Party for BiH MPs' club will support the law in the original text, i.e. the Commission's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20804	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Let's go make a statement about the amendments. I'm asking the promoter if he's staying with all 22 amendments or if he'll help us with our mood, what would you say?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20805	I'm staying with everyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20806	All 22. By praying to Bog, we go from one to 22. Prepare to vote. We declare the amendment and Dr Tihomir Gligorić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 10, against 12, five abstentions. Amendment I is not accepted. Prepare to vote on Dr Gligoric's Amendment II. You could've helped us tiho, you see what fate is. In five, against 12, seven abstentions. Amendment II is not accepted. We move to the Declaration on Amendment III. Prepare to vote. It's not too late to give up. In five, against 11, six abstentions. Amendment III not accepted. 21 We move on to Amdnaman IV. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For nine, against 11, six abstentions. Amendment IV is not accepted. We move to a statement on Amendment V. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 11, versus 11, 5 abstentions. Amendment V is not accepted either. We're moving on to Mandman No. VI. Prepare to vote. Vote now. In 9, versus 11, 7 abstentions. Amendment number VI not accepted. We're moving on to an amendment statement. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20807	It's not on. Here you see, I followed you for nothing, but there you go. Okay, thank you. Gligorić, we've entered the plea phase. It means giving up Amendments VIII to XXII. Thank you, Dr. President. Gligor. We're moving on to a statement on Mr. Mirsad Ćeman's amendments. Prepare for a plea concerning the amendment and Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. Vote now. - for 13, versus 11, no one abstentioned. From RS 2, there's no majority. The alignment probably remains for the rest of the day. So it wasn't adopted. We're going to Amendment number II of Mr. Ćeman. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 15, against 13, 1 abstention. It's the same situation. He doesn't have a majority of RS. It's all right. It's all right. It's all right. Moving to Amendment III. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 15, against 14, 1 abstention. Same situation. He doesn't have most of the entities. So he's going for a match. 22 Amendment number IV. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 15, against 14, 1 abstention. Same situation. So amendment number IV goes to the alignment. But we can't get along without Martin, because we couldn't do other things. It's all right. It's not a problem. It's a matter of procedure and a Rules of Procedure. As far as I'm concerned, the problem is only. Okay, here's the SDA can withdraw the amendments on behalf of the promoter, so we can make a statement about the law. It's simpler than breaking business procedures. Propose a withdrawal if the technical amendments are that we have a statement of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20808	There's no Ćeman. I can't take it back on behalf of him.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20809	Then neither can I in the name of the Rules of Procedure violate the Rules of Procedure, because there is no Martin. The technical natures are amendments, you can pull them out because they are technical. Let's pass the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20810	Hazim. Are they technically amendments?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20811	They're technical. Oh, wipe this word or that word. It's no problem, we can't get along without Martin. We can't agree to agree. But you can withdraw the amendments. That's why I'm suggesting.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20812	Well, on behalf of the club, indeed, the amendments are really technical, one thing. And for this reason it is more important to pass the law than to delay its adoption. We're withdrawing on behalf of the Ceman Amendment Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20813	Of course, thank you. So the amendments were withdrawn on behalf of the club, so Mr. Ćeman. Thank you. So let's go, ladies and gentlemen, get ready to vote. We're pleading against the law. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So for 25, versus 2, abstention 4. We have the entity majority and the total majority. I find that the draft law on the indirect taxation procedure was adopted in the second reading. So, ladies and gentlemen, we've moved on to, we've acquired the conditions to move to the 10th point of the agenda, that's 23rd Ad.10. The draft law on the mandatory collection of indirect taxes in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the second reading and this legislative proposal was adopted at the 69th session in the first reading. In the plenary phase, the amendments to Mirsad Ćeman two amendments, Tihomir Gligorić, also submitted two amendments. If there's any understanding, maybe we should have this law in our second reading to withdraw the amendment. If not, we have to finish the procedure in business. Give me the amendments. Mr. Gligorić, does he have the mood to withdraw the amendments and Ćeman and you are in a mood, or are you asking us to plead?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20814	Here's the first one to see how it goes.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20815	It means we're testing. He's giving up on dr. Gligorić. Thank you. See how it's possible to bring attitudes closer.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20816	On behalf of the Club, I'm giving up the Ceman Amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20817	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you can see in one tolerated atmosphere how the text of the law can be reached. Thank you. We thus obtained the conditions to make known the Law in the second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. A little chivalrous, a little latinine is. 26 against 2, 3 abstentions. So 17 from the Federation, 9 from Republika Srpska. Enough. The proposal for a law on the forced collection of indirect taxes in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted in the second reading and we move to the 11th point of the agenda, that is, Ad.11. The draft law on the prevention and prevention of drug abuse in the first reading of the proposal for this law was submitted by the Council of Ministers in parliamentary procedure on 2 September 2005. It's being considered in regular procedure. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, as well as the report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission which is responsible for considering this law. You've seen the Constitutional and Legal Commission adopt 15 amendments. At the plenary stage, we didn't have any amendments. I'm opening a debate. Dušanka Majkić. Here you go. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20818	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, is the glamour of the adoption of a basic law on the prevention and prevention of drug abuse, as you are familiar with the effective countering of the distance of drug spread and their abuse. The arrangement of this area is necessary for the following reasons. The country's citizens are very concerned about the growing spread of drugs, and the legal irregularities of this significant area have led Bosnia and Herzegovina to blacklists of the UN's relevant organs. The organisation of this area is one of the conditions of the EU's feasibility study. This law should therefore constitute the main normative act that prescribes the most important that both full legislation related to the prevention of drug abuse. However, the proposed legal solution, in my view, does not fulfil the basic principle, which is that, in one place, organized methodological and professional approach, all issues related to the prevention of drug abuse are fully addressed. So the bill deals with production and traffic, not the prevention of drug abuse. It lays down the conditions for the cultivation of plants from which intoxicating drugs, conditions for the production, possession and transport of intoxicating drugs and substances that can be used for their manufacture, as well as the control of the production, possession and traffic of intoxicating drugs. However, the legislator completely dropped a very important segment from this area. There is not a single word about building a system of prevention of treatment for addiction, nor about helping addicts and occasional drug consumption, although it is clear to all that there is no solution to the problem of drug abuse and spread until it reaches the end of the drug use. The law also does not regulate the place and role of state institutions of NGOs in the system and protect and assist addicts and occasional consumers. I believe that such a bill that does not meet the basic principles of its adoption cannot make a more significant shift in the repression of this honor of the modern era. In addition to that, I'd like to give you some statistics. The exact number of drug users, or who died of drug use, is impossible to determine because there is no institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina that would have such data in one place. I've made some contacts and found out that only in Banja Luka has about 2,000 registered drug addicts, but it's estimated that the real number of addicts gets only when that number is multiplied by 5 to 7. It means 10 to 14 grand. And if there is no record in Bosnia and Herzegovina of the exact number of drug users, research shows that the drug problem in these areas has been marked by epidemics, especially among high school students. There are more and more children than 13 years of age among addicts. Police data show that more addicts and perpetrators of crimes are often robbed and robbed. On the road to drug transport, to the manufacturer to the consummation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, she found her place under the auspices of the so-called. Balkan routes that from eastern countries via Serbia-Montenegro to Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia are importing and smuggling drugs that are moving further to Western countries. Although Bosnia and Herzegovina in these drug lords is primarily a country suitable for the transport of drugs, it is no doubt a large part of it is kept on our market. The drug transport via Bosnia and Herzegovina also speaks of a recent statement at the trial of Milorad Lemek, the first indictee of the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Đinđić for the transfer of 700kg of heroin via Bosnia and Herzegovina and Romania to Western European countries. 25 The fact that in the past few years, more than 1,000 kg of heroin has been seized and seized from citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the illegal market has proved a high degree of involvement in drug trafficking in a large number of people from these areas. Police data in Bosnia and Herzegovina say the most representative drug on the illegal market in Bosnia and Herzegovina is marijuana, and research into certain NGOs conducted in schools says more than 30% of students were able to try marijuana, and that it is available to them at every step. It is particularly worrying that among those who use marijuana, more and more children are younger than 13 years of age. In the drug problem, young people most often come between 16 and 22 years of age. While the initial limit for first contact with drugs has been moved to 12 years. A major increase in drug consumption also contributes to an extremely affordable price on the street. So a match of grass on the street costs 10, while for the pursuit of heroin can be found even at a price of 5 to 10 marks. One tablet of ecstasy costs 2 marks. It's just talking about how affordable drugs are for young people. I wonder why, because of all this data, they're all negligible, all of them.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20819	Please listen to your colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20820	and accept this kind of law that only partially tries to regulate this complex matter. Can this parliament, in such circumstances as the country is in the face of drug abuse, accept a bill that does not cover a very important area, which is prevention, treatment and rehabilitation of addicts. Since there are no issues of prevention and treatment of addiction, the law does not address the question of the resociation of people treated with addiction, although it is known to be a very important segment in the fight against disease and addiction. Also in this law, the bill should address the importance of civil sector or different associations dealing with the programme of assistance to addicts and their resolution through strengthening their role. We must not forget that the job of prevention and treatment of addicts is invaluable for society. Most due to the reduction and spread of drugs to healthy and young populations, but also to the reduction of other forms of crime that make up untreated addictions, as well as the reduction of bc hepatitis, HIV infection, family destruction. This list of all shortcomings of this law does not end. How serious this draft law is on the proposed competent authorities and the necessary budget for its implementation. The authority for this complex and complex problem was entrusted to the following institutions – the Council of Ministers for Civil Affairs and Entity Ministers responsible for Health Affairs and Responsible Persons in Brcko District and the Department for the obor of Drug Abuses or the Department for Intoxication Drugs at the Ministry of Security, which would number three professional workers with a budget of 50,000. It is not difficult to imagine what the effect of this law will be in which the Committee on Drugs, which, by the way, has a very ambitious part of the work, please read Article 9 of what is part of the Committee, includes the Minister of Civil Affairs to which it is attached to the duty of demining, culture, education, health, registration plates, ID cards, passports, registrations, 26 citizenship papers, protection of personal data, etc. It's the same case with the other board members, I mean the entity health ministers. It's also not hard to imagine how the founding is that 40 grand can be made to combat drug abuse. Every serious in this country is clear that the proposed solution to jurisdiction is not good and that the first real solution would be to organise an office to combat the abuse of intoxicated drugs, so an expert team at the Council of Ministers of BiH, but similar bodies at entity levels. The office would monitor phenomena and consider issues for these areas, as well as other activities related to the application of the Law on the Prevention and Prevention of Drug Abuse. Although the cultivation of plants is within the jurisdiction of the entity ministries of agriculture, only legal and natural persons authorised by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, Chapter IV, are allowed to grow hemp and macaque under this proposal. Imagine all issues related to authorisation and cultivation of hemp and macaque are prescribed by the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. In the end, I would like to say that this law and the issue would have to avoid any politicalisation and that all political parties would have to reach a consensus in line so as to avoid Bosnia and Herzegovina getting another law that does not pass without previous and good preparations and that can only serve to cloud the eyes of the citizens of this country and the international community that we have made the law, but that is impossible to implement. I therefore propose to return to this draft law as incomplete and unsettled to the promoter for further processing, that the Council of Ministers should be accompanied by measures to build a system of prevention of addiction, treatment of addicts and rehabilitation, to provide for the establishment of a specific institution that would be responsible for proposing, implementing and coordinating measures, that the law should regulate the place and role of state and entity institutions and NGOs in the system of protection and assistance to addicts. Penalties shall provide for the confiscation of assets and for all those involved in the distribution of drugs and the planning of budgets for the implementation of this law to be implemented on the basis of a strategy for the control and use of drugs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20821	Thank you. A colleague, Novaković, asked for a word, so Mr Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20822	I'm just here to support the opening statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20823	Thank you. Dr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20824	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, so here's what I'm going to do, and this is what the honourable Member of the Majkić said, and I agree with that, but I'd like to take a step further. What it means to ask the Proposer to bring it back or put this law into public debate, or to supplement it in terms of these proposals. What does it mean if we're looking for a strategy from anyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina and any level? What does coordination mean by the Council of Ministers or anyone? This means that drug dealers can be satisfied and rub their hands that in this unfortunate Bosnia and Herzegovina they will not be brought forward, then the law may not be in this mandate but after 27 elections some other authority will pass. And by then, we'll be blacklisted on the UN list because of not making or not having, or whatever you want, this important law. I would therefore ask that we make this bill that we have and that I view as a technical law that is actually so-called. The law model, and it's a copy of how much I know about UN conventions that regulate this issue. And that the essence of this law is how I understood it and understood it, and I also supported it on the Constitutional Law Committee for those reasons that I'm trying to say something, because it defines actually let's say the substances or the recursions of these intoxicating drugs products, because we have a situation now that these substances are produced from drugs, let's assume that in the Federation of BiH it's forbidden, that in another entity it's not or vice versa, we just then on the market of Bosnia and Herzegovina and here we have the production of intoxicating drugs. In this way, we believe that at a state level, it should be prevented. This law does it. Of course, it is a very important issue that Mrs. Majkić spoke about when it comes to young people, when it comes to their protection, their treatment, their prevention and everything that concerns them, it is very important, etc. But it's an entity, entity jurisdiction. Only then do we have to face the fact that we have a constitutional arrangement, that it's an entity jurisdiction when it comes to public health and that in that case we have to keep that in mind. Are we going to seek now transfer of jurisdiction or is it more important to prevent drugs from emerging in the streets of schools by drug dealers and covering the entire area of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This law will be a blow to them. And that's why I think it's important and that's why it needs to be done. We can change things with changes and supplements and in walking, but you have no law at all, and that's why I'm asking the MPs, because we're at first reading right now. So when it comes to the principles of this law and the need to pass this law, and in the second reading, I even suggest that we go to another reading right now and that in that second part if there is an amendment, if anyone wants to fix it, there was a chance and a chance at the commission stage. No one delivered to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which was designated by the College as the competent commission. If we had such good care, etc. We should have invested it like I did on the previous laws and each of you. If we didn't do it, I believe, when it comes to drugs, drugs, I share my opinion and other MPs, that honor, that negative social phenomenon, that evil that came in. We used to all, here a little older, grow up in other conditions in another system in another family that could confront a lot of things and the system would stand up. We don't have it today. I don't want to help these people in any segment because we don't have the legal norm to prevent them and thus regulate this important issue. And that is why I am not in favour of any delays in this matter, but to intervene urgently and it will be a good message that Parliament has ended this today. Otherwise it'll be a bad message and I say drug dealers will be satisfied and still have this gray tampon zone that the drug routes pass through know it. So, we're talking about these principles, I'd be glad that you accept it and that this story of mine doesn't make any sense, but in the way that it started and the way I talked to these people, and for me, there's no more important law than this to try to protect the youth and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20825	Every story finds its own ear. You do the talking. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20826	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. And that's why I'd like you to support me, Mr. Mišić. I'm glad if that's the case. I also took part in the commission when I was talking about this issue and now that these principles are, I want to give my opinion and my position on this law. I think it is necessary, I believe that it should have been earlier and that we can all agree here and here I am glad that we will get this important law today and send a message to the UN and the EU that we have engaged in the fight against this social evil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20827	Thank you. Is it a replica or is it a discussion, Mr. Novaković?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20828	I'll just, yeah, yeah, I just want to support tihin's opening statement. We'll vote for the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20829	Thank you. The word was requested by Deputy Minister Mr. Mektić, and then Mr. Križanović, well, actually Dr. Živković, Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20830	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honored guests, I would not now speak about it or present some facts as to how much it is necessary and important for the adoption of such a law in Bosnia and Herzegovina and, besides the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina has committed itself to respecting all international conventions when it comes to drug abuse, but when it comes to the fight against narcotics. First of all, it is the obligation of the Vienna Convention and of these slaves, which some MPs have said, which is that Bosnia and Herzegovina is on the blacklist because it has not regulated the area of abuse of intoxicating drugs at all. But I'm afraid it is coming, that during these discussions so far, I want to say something in this direction, perhaps to some kind of misunderstanding in the sense that we have been, in both these conventions and intensities, the ministry and the Council of Ministers, first of all, urgently passed a law on the abuse of intoxicating drugs in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because of this, preventing abuse, excuse me, because we have one situation going on, or otherwise you have a huge number of chemical substances, or breakers that are normally used in chemical or some other industry, not only in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also in other countries, and there is a very easy possibility of abuse of these substances in the production of intoxicating drugs. Therefore, some of these substances need to be placed under a certain strict and strong control regime when it comes to traffic and when it comes to the production of certain substances from which drugs can be produced, which is primarily here in our country, I do not know about the cultivation of certain plants, etc. So, the basic intention of this law and the need and why we're on the blacklist is because we didn't have this law so let's say that a certain substance starts from abroad, informing us here that it's headed towards Bosnia and 29 Herzegovina, thinking that on a special regime it's here in terms of full control of that matter. However, it is found here that it is not a regime of any kind, that it is a classical chemical substance, and you also remember the number of cases detected and some of which are involved in the enormous amount of imported synthetic acid artitride from which large amounts of intoxicating drugs were obtained without any major problems, particularly heroin. However, this law is not, and I don't think there is a need to regulate the area of fighting drug abuse as an integral part of the most common fight against organised crime. Both Bosnia and Herzegovina's Criminal Law and its entities have prescribed every possible incrimination of the fight against drug abuse in Bosnia and Herzegovina and repeat that in this law I don't think there would be any need, and in fact there could be nothing new in terms of fighting, I say against drug abuse as an organized part, as part of organised crime extremely dangerous and harmful to every country, including Bosnia and Herzegovina. I also want to say that this law did not cover part of the prevention, and part of it let me say maybe a little more layian treatment and the resociation of certain persons and persons who were drug users, or a preventive one action in terms of the rejection of potential participants, potential users of this drug. But we are not about what we considered and what Mr Gligorić said was the specificity of the constitutional arrangement of Bosnia and Herzegovina that the issue of the complete issue of health and social protection at the entity level is a matter of prevention, I do not know through schools of certain institutions, educational character and others at the level of which it is, and that at the entity level there are laws on the fight against drug abuse and abuse of intoxicating drugs that regulate that area, and you will see that we are said to be in Article 99 in the final and transitional provisions that exclude this law when it comes to the laws of entities and Brcko District those provisions that are regulated by this law and those provisions that are potentially contrary to this law. So the absolute prevention of treatment and resociation remains in the jurisdiction of the entity, but here is the obligation to form one, one, here stands the commission, or whatever you want at the state level in which the composition will, for example, be the minister of civil affairs, entity health ministers, etc. who will deal with this issue and these problems from one state level. And in Article 9, it is said here, I believe that Article 9 or 8 of the obligation to adopt a state strategy to combat drug abuse, and in this strategy, in general, not in general but in particular to specify all measures and actions and this strategy will oblige everyone at this level of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina to give theirs, in Article 7, I apologize, therefore the state strategy and the state action plan, which states that the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina will, on a proposal from the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. bring up this state strategy and action plan for the implementation of the state strategy. So once again, here I am, finally repeating that this is a law on the prevention and prevention of drug abuse, so first of all, to put under one normative regulatory traffic and production of substances and prescribers, whose abuse can come about, produce drugs and this is one key and huge progress in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and you have seen there standing there, I don't know exactly where the first list together with the law of these substances on the regime will be determined by the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina for practical reasons for it to be published together in the official messenger and the law to come into force and that list, and that each after the Council of Ministers will establish that list, because it is possible in the course of the year that a new substance appears and puts it on that list, etc. We are obliged to follow, above all, the UN International Committee, which is based here in Vienna and the 30 to which we have committed ourselves to do and who had certain objections at first on the proposal of this law and which we have installed those observations in this part of the law and for a purely practical reason and faster way of acting that after each of these lists and the change of that list will therefore establish the Council of Ministers. And this means the basic essence of that law, and I don't think I should be involved with any of these substances, and I don't know how to fight drug abuse, etc. which is an integral part of I absolutely do not know the fight against organised crime or I say prevention and treatment and resociation which is once again under the Constitution of BiH in the jurisdiction of entities and is prescribed by their laws and they are already doing so, and there is nothing disputed and they will only harmonize their laws in that part that will cancel out so these provisions that have been governed by this law and possibly some others that do not comply with this law and I think it would be very important and important that we get to this law as soon as we get to this law, because we saw ourselves here in one article, we would be obliged to send the text of this law to the UN Secretary-General bound to see that Bosnia and Herzegovina has practically fulfilled this obligation from the Vienna Convention. Thank you. I've tried, I'm glad, I've tried if I've been able to explain some things. If there are any more questions, I'm ready to answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20831	I thank the Deputy Minister, and thank you for listening patiently. Mr. Džaferović answered for the word, so Dr. Živković, then Križanović, then Ljilja Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20832	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I went out for a pay phone to plead for the adoption of this law today both in the first and second readings, because our country needs this law as quickly as possible, given the evil that arises in our country when it comes to drug abuse, or drug abuse, right. With this law, Bosnia and Herzegovina fulfils a very important international obligation, so it aligns its internal legislation with international legal acts. This is the obligation of every UN member state, including Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I would pray that when we talk about this matter in the way that the deputy minister has spoken here, so the fight against narcotics is not only a matter of this law, but it is a matter of a whole spectrum of laws that will be passed or already passed on both the entity and the state level, and the only total package of laws makes the state able to deal adequately with this modern evil. That's why I'm proposing that today we pass this law as a fundamental law. This law, when adopted, will prevent all possible types of abuse and any possible kind of ambiguity in the application of the laws imposing sanctions, whether criminal or criminal, when it comes to the abuse of intoxicating drugs. It is only by adopting this law that effective application of these regulations in Bosnia and Herzegovina will be made possible by defining either things, or the underdefined things will be clarified, because it actually provides for this law and I actually regard it as a fundamental, or key law in preventing and curbing the abuse of intoxicating drugs. 31 I therefore propose that we adopt it in the first and second readings, because the sooner we adopt it, the better for Bosnia and Herzegovina and for all of us in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20833	I thank my colleague Džaferović. There are a lot of debaters about this item on the agenda, so I guess that's not a sign that drug MPs understand better than any of these legal solutions. Mr. Dr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20834	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, in sum, this seems to me to be achieving a polarisation here in Parliament regarding the question of who is in favour, and who is against the law, I would like to say here that we are in favour of the law and that it is necessary in Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, the way this law has come into this procedure for us is not acceptable for the simple reason, we will begin from the very choice of the commission that was to do this law, the Constitutional and Legal Commission seems to me that the happiest solution has not been chosen, because it may be more for the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs. We have agreed in this Parliament that we will have all the laws concerning the problems that are related to our EU accession to have from our European Integration Agency the mark that it is in line with the EU. We don't have that here. And I want to say that we are violating ourselves, what we have agreed here in this House that such laws are once again on the road to the EU, and we have seen that the laws already passed in our environment, mentioning Croatia, are much better done than this law that we have here now. So we're not against the law, but we think he's comprehensive, that he could write much better and that in this form that's currently here, he's not enforceable. It's not enforceable because we keep trying to put them in law and deal with them at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then push them into municipalities, cantons, entities, to deal with these problems that we've done to them here. I will only mention VAT and social programs. We said we'd do it here, and then we left it at the mercy of the municipalities, the cantons, the entities to do it. I think we'll do the same with this law. On the other hand, I don't think the Civil Service is currently qualified to do that. It seems to me that we're going with a needle to Golijat and since the other day I was at the Ministry of Civil Affairs, they're much simpler than just buying signatures for what we needed an application for, according to the World AIDS Fund, they haven't been able to do, let alone fight AIDS, that evil that's much, much better organized than services like SIP, police, etc. in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I want to tell the SNSD again is for the law and it needs to be brought in. Drugs haven't been here since yesterday, but we're afraid this law won't be enforceable. We have two ways to vote on this bill, or offer the Council of Ministers to withdraw it from the procedure. Thank you. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20835	Thank you. He has a colleague, Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20836	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'll do it very briefly. I would also like to stress that I highly appreciate the effort made by the ministry to reach this bill. Of course we support the adoption and the need to pass this law, because it is indeed a general social interest and a general social problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina that has both its economic and health reproductive and, as I would say, the security aspect of this problem. In order not to prolong it, I agree very well with the presentation of my colleague Majkić and only those proposals she has already made, I would insist and suggest that nothing will be lost unless this law is declared today, if a statement is prepared at the next session, and that a public debate on this law is organised in the meantime. Why does it matter? It is important because this problem applies to society as a whole, and it can be successfully solved if all elements of society, including, of course, NGOs, are included in it with certain synchronised activities. This would result in another important moment for public debate to contribute to raising awareness in Bosnia and Herzegovina about the problem and the dangers of illegal drug use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20837	Thank you. A colleague of Ljiljana Milićević asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20838	I wanted a part of what my predecessors already said. I believe that the law on the prevention and prevention of drug abuse should be found significantly earlier, and I would like to say that today we are going to the first and second reading. As for repairing the law, as far as we could see a lot of amendments were on the commission, a good part of the amendment means the law is fixed, let's take the conditional part. You see, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the fact is that so far she's had objections and has been on the UN wallpaper a few times because we didn't have this law. And as for the needs and arrangements of this area, this honor is a newer date, we can say in our country. But in all the areas of life, it starts from the family as the cells of this society, and on the other hand, this is one evil project that we all have to fight in different areas of life, and we can't expect that these and the different aspects mean the way to fight this drug use to be contained, and I think that this law fills the area that it's intended for, that it actually regulates and that it's acceptable as such. But as far as the fight against drugs is concerned, I say from NGOs, government, all possible sectors and in the field of life, as much as we do, make sure it's small and that it's a great evil. That's what I'm saying as someone who comes from Herzegovina where over the last 15 years, so that drug has been going across that territory, coming from somewhere, going somewhere. However, everything that crosses your straws is falling off, so that 33 people who smoke marijuana can meet in Herzegovina today, and here you have read about it. So everything that's a transit area, this transit area eventually starts taking victims and starting to have pleasures. So I'm willing to support every new initiative and everything that leads to us fighting drugs, but it's unquestionable that this law should go today, I support another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20839	As Bosnia and Herzegovina is a country in a drug transit now, the most important thing is to regulate production, then we'll be complete. Who's still looking for a word? Adem Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20840	I thank the chairman, I belong to those fellow Members of Parliament who I have read this law and I have seen laws in neighbouring countries and I think that what has come to us on benches is objectively what is most possible at this moment. If we're speaking essentially, even formally, I mean now we don't have a chance to act later. So I belong to those who are concerned about the state of abuse of intoxicating drugs, and I belong to those who feel that this law should be passed as soon as possible. So between these two options I would support the proposal to go to first and second reading today, so that we have the opportunity to always act in a positive way on the law if we ever need to, and the needs will certainly be, because time makes us do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20841	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. Ladies and gentlemen, we're closing the debate. So, you heard how it was during the debate. So let's go make a statement about the law in the first reading. There were loans to go to another reading. Of course, it will depend on the results of the first reading vote. So, get ready to vote. We're voting on the law in first reading. Vote now. For 24, against 1.4 abstentions. So 16 from the Federation, 8 from RS. I find that we adopted the bill to prevent drug abuse in the first reading. Now prepare to make known who is in order to go to a statement on the law in the second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. This power can survive with a little drug consumption. 26 against 1, 2 abstentions. I find that we have most of us, that we plead in a second reading. I'm opening a debate on the law in the second reading. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. 34 Prepare to declare the law in a second reading. Vote now. So for 25, 2 against, 3 abstentions. We have most of the entity and most of it. I find that we have passed a bill on the prevention and prevention of drug abuse in the first and second readings. And thus obtained the conditions to move to the 12th point of the agenda, Ad.12. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Human Rights of BiH, the first reading of the Bill's proposal has long been in the procedure since 30 March 2005. The competent commission on human rights, immigration, refugees and asylum has twice requested an extension of the deadline for consideration. A report by the committee responsible was submitted on 19 September 2005. After we received a report from the competent commission, we included the draft law on the agenda of the 66th session held on 28 September 2005, when we concluded that the statement on the draft law should be postponed within 20 days to ask the National Assembly of Republika Srpska to submit its position on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Human Rights of BiH. Sadly, we have not received the position of the National Assembly until today. I'll remind you of the report from the commission you received. The Commission adopted 13 amendments. In the plenary phase, Momčilo Novaković submitted six amendments. So we have a bill in the first reading. What I would like to draw attention to is simply, since the law has been in the process for a long time and I think it is an important law for BiH, I would like it to be able to adopt this law because it is in the interest of the citizens of BiH and, in that sense, I propose, if possible, that the club presidents do not complicate this law with additional amendment phases in order to get to the best bill that would also be in line with European standards. We already have remarks from those who monitor in BiH that this two-year implementation deadline is not a good solution, that there will be objections to it. And I think, if we agree on the text of the law, compromises are made, and I think that these compromises are acceptable and in line with the Venice Commission's report, that we in the lovely Parliament make sure that we do not go unless there is a special need for the long term of implementation of that law. So today I ask that we simply try to find all the machanisms available, to adopt this law in the first reading and that, then, this is about the amendment attempts by the president of the clubs to see how much sense it makes for compromises and whether these compromises go beyond what is the position of the Venice Commission and the OSC in BiH. Here, I am opening a debate with these remarks regarding the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Human Rights, with the fact that I want to draw attention to the fact that we do not have the opportunity to extend and await further. I sent a letter to the National Assembly of Republika Srpska on March 28th asking them to make their views known to him, so that we could simply cancel the process here because the MPs made remarks that there was no attitude of the National Assembly of the RS. Unfortunately, we have not received that attitude until today, and we cannot postpone this law, regardless of what we did not get. I'm opening a debate. 35 A kolega, Novaković, answered for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20842	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, I would like to propose a break before the debate. It seems to me that in that way maybe even part of some of the debates means this, to avoid leaving the College now to evaluate, for what I'm asking for a break is 15 minutes enough for me. However, whether you might do an hour now, and end up with lunch, or continue after a break of 15 minutes, then go, so I'll leave it to the College. So, as far as I'm concerned, I need a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20843	Please, there's no need for an hour. Here, break till 1:00. At 1:00, so we'll continue to consult to have a brief lunch, I don't think we'll be working much later, but I'm asking you at 1:00 to get started. There's no need to break the timing every time. So break till 1:00. I suggest that MPs take their seats and continue with, I ask the MPs to take their seats. [[PAUZA]] Gentlemen, is there any need to explain?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20844	Dear colleagues, I have asked for a break in order to carry out some additional consultations on the upcoming agenda and after the consultations have been carried out we will therefore be prepared to declare our first reading and after the first reading, if further discussion is under way, I will present my views on the amendments. What I can say is that after these consultations, the Serbian Democratic Party Club appreciates that, to a significant extent on the Commission, a series of lack of law, so, this one, has been changed and that we have, in principle, received the principles of the law on which we can seem to find, in common, all of us, that is, for which we can declare ourselves.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20845	I thank my colleague Novaković. Who's picking up the word? Are we discussing the law in the first reading? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, prepare to vote on the law in the first reading. Vote now. So, for 24, no one against, no one abstention. We have an entity and a total majority. I agree that we have adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Human Rights of BiH. Ladies and gentlemen, I am prepared to suggest that we enter another reading. It's about the important law. He's got to get both of us home. I suppose there's going to be a need for alignment in order for us to end up having this important law, so I invite you to state who it is that we have another reading about this law? 36 Prepare to vote. All right, let's do it now. So, for 26, no one against and one abstention. So we switched to another reading. In the second reading, we have Mr. Momčilo Novaković's amendments, 7 amendments, and we no longer have amendments for the second reading. I want to ask Mr. Novaković if he stays with the amendment, does he want us to plead on all amendments? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20846	I thank Mr. Chairman, firstly I would like to express one satisfaction that by considering Mr. Raguž's amendments and my amendment, the Commission has come of course with our help to the text of the amendment that was acceptable and which in some ways represents a compromise solution when it comes to defining the notification of the ombudust at BiH level. I am dissatisfied with the non-resolvement of one part of these amendments, and I have delivered a lot of these questions with seven amendments. And, I would like to inform this House that Amendment VII is purely technical and it is not me, so I must express my surprise that the Commission has not taken into account that by the expiry of the period laid down in paragraph 1.17 of Article 1 regardless of how it reads, entities are obliged to adopt appropriate laws establishing the termination of operation. In fact, we must also respect the fact that at the entity level there is this institution and that they must establish the end of the existence of that institution by their act and there is really no need for us to end this part of this work with our act and I think that amendment is purely technical. It doesn't change anything in the essence of the law, and I call on my colleagues to view Amendment VII in this way, not in principle as it happens, that all amendments to someone because they're someone, this one and that one, they refuse. What I am prepared to propose as an amendment in this moment I am prepared to give up the other amendments except Amendment I.. dakle I am willing to give up all amendments except Amendment I, of course, and Amendment VII, whose already, which I have already explained. I believe that by actually adopting or accepting this law, I must say, we gave up in one part, however faded this one, one of us, means we gave up in one part of an institution that no matter how we interpret it, belonged to entities. I believe that by adopting the amendments and the seats that are here, we ourselves have said that there is no special importance, meaning by adopting a seat in Banja Luka, we would completely remove the last obstacle to vote for this law and adopt what is the post-opportunity obligation of BiH and what is indeed a lot, a lot of time we are dealing with and what we are dealing with for a long time and what we are trying to agree on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20847	I thank my colleague Novaković. I thank you for giving up on the 5 amendments and thereby contributing to the shortened procedure on the plea and fellow Members, please bear in mind what counterpart Novaković was talking about. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're going to a statement on the amendment and colleagues of Novaković. 37 Prepare to vote. Vote now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20848	I'd really like to, I think I've troubled the amendment and, that I've given it special meaning. I'd like to hear really what the club presidents here in Parliament think about this. I'm afraid just this way, by going to the polls, we don't create some situation where all this stuff I just said and all this effort, and all this talk of mine isn't an empty story. So I would really like the presidents of the clubs to give a clear position on this amendment so that we can come only after that with a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20849	Mr. Beriz Belkić, let Mr. Tihomir Gligorić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20850	I think we should've acted on our own. Very correct from Mr. Novaković. So, when it comes to the stranka for BiH, we could also accept this amendment VII, although it does, in some ways, open up space and the possibility of things falling apart. But here, therefore, Amendment VII could be accepted, Amendment I, not only, that it determines not only the seat of the ombudusmen but in some ways implicates and speaks of specific structures by entities etc. which in some ways weakens the institution of the ombudus. We have also shown in the earlier debate one serious remark on that formulation that the institution of the ombudusman makes up three persons etc. considering that this country is enough to have an ombudus BiH, etc., along with all the organisational structure and then we would rather support it as headquarters in Banja Luka than this three-person variant, etc. But let me put it short, to be precise, Amendment VII can be supported, Amendment I, no.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20851	I thank Mr. Belkić. Mr. Tihoir Gligorić, insolete.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20852	Mr. President-in-Office Raguž, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this proposal by Mr. Novaković after a break and what he has now suggested in the second reading, in terms of withdrawing amendments, by insisting on only one amendment, is considered constructive and correct and at the same time, it would not be bad for us all to imagine when we talk about the amendment and the seat of the ombudusman, that we should take care of different, of dislocations, and that in this way we could improve or show in practice that we are ready to respect the conclusion of the Parliamentary House of Representatives, which has repeatedly asked that we make sure that in the formation of new institutions we set up a seat in different places in BiH. That it is practically on the trail of that conclusion and what MP Novaković suggested, and that it would be good to think about it, that we should make a certain milestone ourselves. Because often we knew or were better put in a position that 38 were unable to determine the seat because of certain relations within the Predator's House and that we often returned it to the Council of Ministers to resolve the issue. The Council of Ministers has resolved this slowly or almost in no way, as we see in this example with the honourable MP Dr Živković, who has been working hard to resolve this issue eventually in Parliament. So it would be a good message, if we had the strength to admit within BiH that there are places, cities that can provide all that, that one institution could work successfully for all BiH citizens, and when it comes to the Ombdusmen for human rights, it's enough or I think, it should be clear to everyone how important it would be for everyone today to go out of this Parliament to adopt a seat in Banja Luka. Here, I would therefore suggest that we reconsider and as for the Club, the Mixed Club of SPRS of Independent MPs, we support the amendment and Mr Novaković, and we will plead positively.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20853	I thank Dr. Gligorić. A colleague, Jahić, asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20854	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I would just like to remind you that we are therefore members of our Human Rights Commission we have made a lot of efforts to compromise this bill. And if we're going to be correct, we know that one of these compromises actually was the seat. I think at the very least, let's say, that now it would be disputable, not to say that it's incorrect, now to try to change something when we know, therefore, that concessions are made from one, on the other, on the third hand, and also representatives of the international community, to come to this bill of law. I think we're in that situation when we've been around so many times, when we've got the law wrapped up, when everything, any change at all, would actually be a change that would hit a lot deeper. So we agreed on the Commission's work on some other things, where other things were done whether, concessions, to stay like this as far as this seat is concerned. So for the Party of Democratic Action, therefore, after all this, after the agreement that we had, it is unacceptable that we now support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20855	I thank my colleague Jahić. Dr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20856	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, since this is such a good atmosphere about this law that we've been working on for a long time, working on it and taking it off the agenda and taking it down, I'd make a small contribution to it. I think it would be good to ask Mr Novaković to give up part of this amendment and, in practice, it only reads, the head office of the Omdusmen for Human Rights of BiH in Banja Luka, thus finding a compromise according to what Mr Belkić said, would not enter into organisational problems and 39 structures of the Ombudsman himself and still give this parliament the possibility that when it passed the law, it would also be responsible for its implementation, in order not to block it, means the implementation of this law. Here, I'd like to be the meaning of this law, along with this amendment, to accept it immediately and unblock it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20857	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. Mr. Novaković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20858	It seems to me, I don't know if I realized that this proposal is here that as far as this first amendment is concerned, it's actually just that the seat of the Omdusmen for Human Rights in Banja Luka and that the rest of the amendment is also deleted. Here I am, therefore, ready to accept this proposal, and in that sense, I am correcting it, so I can say that I am correcting my amendment and that it is actually just, the seat of the BiH Human Rights Board is in Banja Luka. The team would have practically had that amendment from Mr. Raguž who was adopted, if he had departments I don't know, in Mostar, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20859	It's all clear. Who's answering for a word longer? Nobody's answering. Please prepare for the vote. We're voting on Amendment Number I, which says Omdusmen headquarters in Banja Luka, the rest is deleted. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 15 for, against 8.7 abstentions, we have most, we don't have most of the Federation, we're going to agree. We don't have a Šefik. Okay, but I'd be begging, you see, it doesn't matter if there's a political mood or it's going to be now or it's going to be 10 days, I'd be begging if Mr. Šefik is in a meeting with and if SDA's against it, I guess there won't be an agreement but we have to wait for him to plead. Well, we'd better finish today because we've moved on to another reading. We're left with a match. Or we could finish our statement on this last amendment, too, so yeah. We're going to the second amendment and we're going to try to agree on a session, so let's vote on the law. Can we do that? You got it. So, please the service to find Mr. Džaferović, to come, he's in the session room, say it's urgent. So let's go, to Amendment number VII, since Novaković gave up on the other amendments. 40 Prepare to vote. Vote now. So for 20, versus 5, abstention 4. We don't have the Federation again, we don't have most of the Federation. He's going for a match. Please, but here we are, waiting for a colleague of the Šefik to agree these two amendments, to complete a statement on this law. I'm asking for a little patience. I think we'd better take a break of five or six minutes. If Džaferović is coming, it's hard to get off the point so we can go back to her, we can't do business. So, we're gonna finish this, please just a little patience. Five minutes off while Džaferović, I'm just asking you to stay out of the O.R. I'd like to inform you that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we have conducted an agreement. [[PAUZA]] We have no agreement on Amendment I. We need to complete the voting procedure. So, get ready and vote. Only those who are against it vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Against the amendment, yes. So, v. 8.7 from the Federation, 1 from Republika Srpska. So this amendment has been accepted. And we've reached agreement on amendment number VII, we're just reporting to you, so we're done with the amendment phase. And please prepare to vote on the law as a whole. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 26, against 0.1 abstention. I agree, ladies and gentlemen, with great pleasure that we adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Human Rights of BiH in the House of Representatives and have obtained the conditions for the transition to the 13th point. Ad.13. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Taxes, the first reading of the Proposal for a Law, is discussed in the ordinary procedure. He's the Proposer of the Council of Ministers. The committee responsible is the Commission for Finance and Budget. The Commission's report was received on 25 October. The Commission accepted the draft law in the proposed text and concluded that there were no amendments. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. I call upon you to plead with the law in your first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So 27 for, against no one, 2 abstentions. I find that we have adopted a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Taxes in the first reading. 41 I ask who is for it, since there were no amendments to move on to another reading? Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, for 28, no one against, no one abstention. So we have a consensus. And I am opening a debate on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Taxes in the second reading. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote on the law in the second reading. Vote now. So, for 25, no one and one abstention. I agree that we have a majority and an entity majority and that we have adopted the Law on Administrative Taxes, a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Administrative Taxes. So, we're going to the 14th item of the agenda, Ad.14. The proposal for a framework law on higher education in BiH with a report by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, legislator Momčilo Novaković, was on the agenda at the 64th session, on 31 August 2005, with a report from the committee responsible, which did not support the principles of the bill. The Commission's report did not receive an entity majority, so it went to the College Commission to agree. At the 65th session of 16 September 2005, we had a report on the creation of consensus, a report by the Constitutional Legal Commission. In the second round of voting, a constitutional-law commission report was not adopted at the 69th session, so the bill went further. We received a new report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission on 20 October 2005. You have seen that the Constitutional and Legal Commission has again failed to accept the principles of the proposal for a framework law on higher education, proposed by counterpart Novaković. We now again on the agenda have a report by the Constitutional and Legal Commission on the proposal for a framework law on higher education that is negative. You've received this report and I'm opening a hearing on the report. Who's answering for a word? Comrade Novaković, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20860	I thank Mr. Chairman, I must say that we have one situation that I commented on last time we discussed one law, and this is the situation that probably we've left it unsaid in business now and that we're going to be spinning most likely means, on this matter to the new Rules of Procedure. In fact, the committee in charge rejected the principles of this law, I must say that I really do not fully understand why, given that the basic principles of this law meet all the criteria set before us by the Bologna Declaration and that possibly the amendment debate could adapt the law to be acceptable to everyone and thus get the law at BiH level. 42 Since we do not have the mood, the Serbian Democratic Party club will therefore not support the Commission's report, believing this will help means that once again the competent commission is looking at all aspects of this law and eventually accepts the principles to enter the amendment phase.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20861	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're going to make a statement on the Constitutional and Legal Commission report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 16, 10 against, abstention 2. So, we don't have an entity majority, we don't have a majority from Republika Srpska, unfortunately it remains for the alignment, we don't have any colleagues, Raguž and you're colleagues, Novaković is right, this is going to spin like a ringishipil, but here, it's such an unspeakable business procedure. Moving to agenda 15, Ad.15. Proposal legal on amendments and amendments to the Value Added Tax Act with the Commission's Report on Finance and Budget, legislator Muhamed Moranjkić, poslanik Muhamed Moranjkić, delivered to Parliament the draft law on amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act on 15 September 2005, with the requirement to be considered under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. The 66th session adopted an emergency procedure application under Article 104. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 30 September 2005, establishing that there is a valid constitutional and legal basis for the adoption of the law. The Commission for Finance and Budget shall be responsible. The Commission's report was submitted on 25 October 2005. You saw that the committee in charge didn't accept the principles of the bill. So we also have a negative report here and a debate and a vote on the report. I'm opening a debate. Comrade Moranjkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20862	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, fellow employees, ladies and gentlemen, I speak as a legislator. I have given an explanation for this law, with the law itself, and I will briefly repeat something before this Parliament, but in another form, with particular emphasis on the preamble of Article 1 of my law, says that these required changes relate to products and services that had taxes 0 before VAT enter into force. I also meant input elements for these products here. Given that they have different interpretations, whether to go with an entry or not to go, and since they are trying to defend someone's attitudes that are contrary to this law, that they will collect the input elements, and VAT will be removed from the final price, they are incorrect and it is practically scaring those who need to think about this law. First, if you accept what I've said, that's out of the question. And in other cases, the input elements are re-promaterial and according to this law the re-promaterial is 43 free of VAT. Therefore, even in that case, the grandma horn cannot be the one to be launched and launched through Bosnalijek and Herzegovina, in order to achieve a completely different effect. I meant that as a dog. I'm still saying that it's inconclusive that the VAT from 1.1 will strike a terrible blow to a special population of poor people in this country, that the economy will be hit because the loan announced from 60 days to 6 months in these conditions of subsistence, I'm a man from the economy, means a very fast suck-up of craftsmanship and bringing in the position of the economy to be closed or one who is extremely curent to collect very quickly, not only for VAT, but also for other amounts, prices and thus improve even greater poverty and an even greater blow to the standard. It is also inconclusive and true that the impact will therefore be over 50% of the population of this country, and it is inconclusive and true that this problem can be overcome theoretically by social programmes. However, there will be no such programs, nor will they be, I say. They're in this utopia situation for a number of reasons. First of all, we don't deal with the team at all, and we're not gonna deal with it. Secondly, what we don't have is money for these programs, and we don't know at all how much money it takes for us to cancel this blow with social programs. The report that someone presented to the benches of this parliament said it could be rescheduled with 50 million. It's 100% incorrect because if you take only one of the products that are practically discriminatory, you'll see that even 10% of it can't be covered. So social programs are utopia at this time and I'm throwing them off as such. I mean, I'm throwing it away right now. I claim that at this point in time and in this state, the only way out is to mitigate this impact of introducing VAT by extending Article 30 with special release, so it bears the title subtitle, and these special releases also mean a special state, because it is particularly in this country and in this situation both material and each other. Until finally someone remembers to return the differential rate, which is inevitable in this country. In particular, I have to stress the second part of this law that, with a little bit more work, just a little more work and effort in the Administration of indirect taxation, could do a lot of things to the economy that I was also going to do under the hit that I was talking about. If that doesn't come to pass, I say that a large number of enterprises will be closed, an reinforced army of unemployed and army, normally the poor will grow even more. I mean, and I'm saying that the state has no right to place its impotence, ignorance, or unpreparedness on the shoulders of its population and its economy that means her life. And the reasons that are cited as an excuse that nothing can be done now because of the short time until the VAT enters into force, changes in the information and other programmes that follow the VAT in the operation, with... the collection of VAT implementation, the production of chaos and confusion etc. for me and for 99% of the population not acceptable in this time and the fact that the Management Board of indirect taxation so arrogantly writes, the normal Commission has accepted, implemented in principle even though it is not principles for me and it is said that these principles should not be accepted. I normally reject it as a reason, and I don't think there's a reason. And the reasons set out by the Administration of indirect taxation, related to the second part of the law relating to the reduction of credit to the state by the economy, are humiliating both for this paragraph and for the legislator of the law if you read that answer in the form of what they have called, decisions, because they do not give them opinions and suggestions to this Parliament, but give final decisions. That's absurd. This parliament is merely a form of meaning and anything else we would like to do would have to be done in the form of a petition to have mercy on someone who suddenly became an expert in the economy, to regulate and resolve it. I'm saying there's not much of a business expert out there, but I have a second opinion. 44 Therefore I ask this Parliament, to understand my gesture in my endeavor that this law in a slightly altered form, in relation to one that went a few days ago, before this law, to understand the state in which this land is located and this people, that this is also temporary in the ultimate measure, a temporary measure as it is said that the dream side may be the temporary one, may also be a temporary measure in order to be tempered, I consider it to be a far smaller loss for us all and for the state, to reduce the impact of this one until it is prepared, better said, until under the alleged signs of the situation and the situation in this country, while we introduce a differential rate. I ask all of you once again, that without more discussion, I think it has already become a little bit of a sight and I am going to skip and degutantly, ask that, without more discussion, we practically and effectively vote for the Commission's report, normally with my proposal to refuse, to vote for this law, and to amend the VAT law and make life easier for the poor citizen and help the economy that still stands on glass feet and the lack of money in the budget to settle in a better and fairer way. I know that 17% with a small gap with 16.5% is someone who's accounted for and replaced the VAT with the Tax on Transport of Products and Services Act, that 0.5 now if we release this will reduce some pile of money, I know that here is fighting for the possibility of serving this country but I'm also fighting for that part of this population not to be hungry until we remember to do something else. That's why I suggest, as I suggested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20863	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Comrade Križanović, did you sign up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20864	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think the fate of this proposal has been quite certain. The Commission's position could be expected because, ultimately, initiatives coming in time and before this proposal were rejected from this home. I will not tell and repeat the story of the importance of VAT and changes, i.e. the execution of a single VAT rate because we have had the opportunity to talk about it almost this year. However, I would like to say in principle here that it is not a proper report from this financial committee. If you look at the reasons why this bill is rejected it comes down to being too late and it would be all right only if it wasn't too late, that there was time to accept this, to arrange the program whether, to carry out the preparations for monitoring and applying the funding..., which doesn't correspond essentially. You know, a year ago when we passed the law, then we had a whole other argument to take one step. This parliament should remain in place to defend a particular policy because of the dignity of the parliament. That is why I cannot accept the Commission's explanation and report because it is not correct and does not reflect the essence of the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20865	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I call on you to prepare to vote on the Commission's report. 45 Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 19, v. 9, abstention 1. He's got a majority, he's got an entity, so the Commission report's been accepted, and I realize this law didn't go through, the law fell. And, by passing the 16th point of the agenda, Ad.16. The motion for a decision on the organisation of the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the 69th session, as is known, has delayed the statement on the Prijedlogu for this decision due to the dilemma expressed in relation to the amendment, the position of the first floor, which is the amendment, which states the assistant elected official, Amendment VIII, is here with me. It was a controversial term for the elected to be declared by the committee in charge. I remind you that the committees in charge of both homes at the joint session have adopted amendments. In the plenary phase, one amendment was submitted by Momčilo Novaković, but last session found the amendment to be untimely. I think you've received reports from the administrative committees of both homes on the disputed amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. Mr. Novaković, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20866	I would only beg an interpretation, since I delivered the amendment. Last time I was told it took 48 hours before the session. Since it wasn't then, and now it's more than 48 hours, is this amendment now in debate or not?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20867	It's not. That's what business counts for, that's what I asked for. So that amendment is considered untimely.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20868	But we didn't discuss the law at all last time.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20869	Well, we didn't, I agree. We have an interpretation of the secretary. We have an interpretation, I'm sorry, I'm not interpreting. Here's the secretary of interpretation. So that's the view that it's not a timely amendment. Who's coming forward for the debate? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote on the motion for a decision. Vote now. So, for 23, against 1, abstentioned no one, 15 from the Federation, 8 from the RS. I agree that we have adopted the proposal for a decision on the organisation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat. 46 We move to the 17th point of the agenda, Ad.17. The proposed donations for BiH in the period '96-2005 From the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, October 3, 2005, we received a review of the donations for BiH in the period from '96-2005, which the Ministry made up on the basis of the conclusion of the BiH Council of Ministers of 14.7.2005. You got that material. Yesterday, the Bureau of Representatives held a meeting to determine the cost of donations. You have received a report from the Commission. You have seen in the report that the Commission proposes that the donation proposal be taken into account despite the fact that the material is not done according to the criteria and at the request of this home. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Tihomir Gligorić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20870	You received a report and we tried to chronologically state everything that was important and what was done in the meantime. It is essential that the House of Representatives, when it formed this commission, tasked it to establish a record or database of donor funds, to establish a way of spending and a possible responsibility for the misuse of the use of donor funds. We were formed in 13.10, so two years ago, and when we found ourselves in one situation as well as in the dilemma of how to solve this issue in the best way, we then came up with information that the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations has a program and is working on it. In the Commission, we expressed our satisfaction at that time that it is good that we have it, but also then and later we faced the fact that this programme does not correspond to the project task given by the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives and we were definitely convinced yesterday, while the independent auditory house in that direction also gave an opinion. We now have a special problem, which is that this project expired in September of this year. It is uncertain that this project will be implemented or completed. What? Well, it's been uncertain since the new year, and who's going to be running these jobs, whether the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations or the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury. So we came to some point where instead of going forward and going further, it kind of brings us back to the beginning and we had to face the fact that this program wasn't complete. The report we sent to the House of Representatives in front of the Commission, and the House of Representatives adopted it in March of the month, there was said that the database has certain shortcomings, that there are no reliable guarantees that all donations are covered, that there are no instruments for reliable control and verification, the source of these data are not countries and organizations donors, but the authorities that participated in some way and donor projects, that these projects under quotes are simply not registered or entered into the database, that they acted directly on the users of the donation database do not contain meaning, data on significant amounts, no donations received by NGOs, the speed of data update is also a lack of this database, as well as possible duplication of the consequences of delays and update that, in addition to the fact that the entire project has cost around 2 million dollars and 800 thousand dollars so far, it does not contain any data on how the project is responsible. 47 My dear colleagues, we are discussing the review today and the House of Representatives has asked the Council of Ministers to submit a report within 60 days. We got a checkup instead of a report. The House of Representatives can adopt reports, not reviews, according to the Rules of Procedure. That is why we have also proposed to the Commission that we take this review into account. It's not even clear to us when I mention this independent auditory house that said, the lack of this programme of millions and 800,000 marks, when we said it in March of the month, why the auditory house was engaged in April and May of this year, to confirm all this, and it's unclear how much it cost and whether we needed it, when we had already seen it before the Commission. That's why I say Daragi my MPs, you have a 180-page review. Each side when you divide a million and 800 thousand dollars, you will get that each page costs $10,000 of this review, because it's practically just printed from the database it has in the Ministry but of course, and in the Ministry itself realizes that this isn't really a database but an attempt at some record of the establishment of donor funds, and we are far from the final base of spending donor funds. There's no collection in Table 1 until page 116. From 116th to 178th, they talk about donations from the RS, and in that table it ends with and interferes with both the Federation of BiH and Bosnia and Herzegovina, I mean three ministries when I talk about joint BiH institutions, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury and the Ministry of Human Rights. Then RS and Brcko District and finally we have that amount recorded here at 7,211,510,695,39 KM. The question arises, why is it not separated, why is it not in structure so that MPs can manage more easily. You only have one final number and nothing in the meantime. Here it's said that there are 59 donors plus others, that's 60. It is thought of NGOs that participated with 304,793,710,00 KM and in this item we see that it refers to 810 million. So it's completely unclear in these positions as indicated and there's no correct explanation. The assistance of the European Commission, we are only talking about the European Commission, was recorded in three periods during that period. First since '96. by 2002, of 1,158 billion, and a foreign source is called the 2003 OECD, a geographical distribution of financial flows. In the second period from 2003 to 2005, amounting to 219 million but now euro. The data source is the World Bank, the financial flows of BiH from 2003 to 2005. And in the third period since '96. Up to this year, BiH records recorded aid of 1.3 billion KM. There is a finding that the unrecorded part of the aid is the result of direct enforcement by the European Commission. In the review itself, there is one finding that a number of projects are found to exist in the donation review, not knowing the exact number of projects that are directly funded and implemented by donors so-called. Direct execution and that these projects are not reviewed donations since '96. until 2005 because their implementation and financing did not go through the financial flows of BiH institutions. This is a direct recognition that many funds, many projects, their implementation and implementation have not gone through the institutions of the system so that the control of financial flows is not covered. The aid review did not separate the financial resources by entities and Brcko District, so yesterday we received data from the representatives of the competent ministry, so if anyone is interested in knowing that out of these 7 billion, the Federation of BiH received 5 billion 164 million, rounding now I, the RS got a billion and 459 million, the Brcko District got 144 million 48 and BH 443 million institutions. It's thought of these three ministries that I've already spoken about under the joint institutions. The obligation remained since last time, when the House of Representatives adopted the report, that within 30 days it was necessary to present the project from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, meaning within 30 days, it was in April. But here, we're not, we're not, we're not allowed MPs to implement this program that I see here in September, it's expired, it's costing so much, and when we take an example on this million-and-eight hundred thousand-mark project, that we don't know the structure that this ministry cost, how much they might have taken on technical education, it means helping to perfect these people, then it's causing suspicion that we can, on other projects, have a way of spending donor resources when in this base, from which we started, we haven't achieved much. Given that there was much to be said about this, I would have ended up this way, to remind myself that the Commission and the House of Representatives had adopted that conclusion, that it was possible to resolve this through their own project, which was done on the basis of EU standards and which could have covered or could have solved this question, that is, the project task given by the House of Representatives, but the Council of Ministers refused to explain that there are no 299 thousand KMs, that they do not see the results of this job or the effects of this job. So today we're faced with an expired program, that the program is not a good competent ministry, we don't know who's going to be doing it since the new year, that the project mission or that we could do it this way in a year, because that's how we gave the guarantee that in a year we're going to solve it. But now the objective question is being raised, how now, although Parliament would approve this project that we have offered as an exit and to resolve this issue, in what way we could do it now, in the light of the fact that this Parliament is in the prime minister's office and that in this case we cannot resolve it in this mandate, there remains a problem and a question for this Parliament, because I believe that the parliamentary oversight must be above the executive authority, that the executive authority has tried in many ways to carry out the obstruction, that we have never finally received the report we have asked for. That is why we are now proposing to deliver the report, to take this review into account because we cannot adopt it because it is incomplete and has not responded to the conclusion of the House of Representatives, and it has been quite clear since 12 April this year. It remains under conclusion 3, in order to resolve this problem one dilemma. And that is the very continued work of this investigation committee. Given that we have stressed here, that the House of Representatives can oblige the Council of Ministers to submit, as soon as possible, a report on donations under the criteria established by home in the formation of the Commission of Investigation, with transparent data by donors, users of donations, sectors, etc., and that possibly the Commission is coordinating and overseeing. This was set aside for the Commission of Investigation to remain and co-ordinate with the Council of Ministers this paper in order to maintain parliamentary oversight of the executive power on this important issue, or for the Commission of Investigation to provide the Commission with funds to activate the proposal for a project to determine the spending of donor funds. It would be to reactivate an existing project that the Council of Ministers has already said in its own time, that it is unnecessary and we thought it is, but now there is a new problem, which is that there is not enough time for this project, the project of this house to be realised in a year, since the elections are going. This conclusion is in the alternative. I would ask that others get involved in this debate and try to resolve that question, whether we should pass on responsibility to the Council of Ministers, that Parliament retains that control and that in that case, the Commission of Investigation and ceases its work. Thank you. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20871	Thank you. I think this proposal here is a donation for BiH in the '96-2005 period, which is the suggestion of our commission, but here I am not taking away anyone's right to discuss it if he wants to. Who's next to the word? But, yes, here's the idea of being well-acquainted. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. And I don't think we're making a statement. So we took note of this donation review for BiH in the '96-2005 period. And, in doing so, you got a condition to move to the 18th point of the agenda, say,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20872	.. The Commission has some doubts about the further status of this Commission. Here we have offered as the Commission two solutions, that, in accordance with the decision of this House, on the mandate of the Commission, this job is transferred to the Council of Ministers, and the second is that since the work of this Commission has been frozen, the Commission should continue to work, coordinate this work and, with the help of the Council of Ministers or a certain ministry, probably in the future of the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury, do this job with the support of Parliament and the Council of Ministers. Therefore, I think it would be good for the House to determine further status and business on this mission.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20873	Thank you. I think that here we are, I'm reading this third conclusion, maybe it would be, so I'm thinking too much about adopting a conclusion saying that the House of Representatives obliges the Council of Ministers to report donations as soon as possible according to the criteria set by the House when forming an investigative commission, with transparent data by donors, donation users, sectors etc. Dot. It still does, because it doesn't make sense that this investigation committee is becoming a supervisory committee. Then this process completely loses its meaning, it's more subjective, I think it may be the conclusion of ours, unless we're satisfied with this work. So that would make sense to me. All this is further, and possibly the Commission is coordinating and overseeing, i.e. providing the Commission with funds to activate the project proposals, etc. I think about the funds, we're finishing this financial year. I don't even know how much money it would take. So that's my personal thinking. Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20874	...I don't mind that proposal that you've just made, but then to make a decision about saying, disbanding this commission, this commission stops working. Since I'm a member of that committee, I think I care about knowing what's further with, what's the status of that commission, 50.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20875	This is understood as we adopt the conclusion, therefore, after this debate today, we are in charge of the Council of Ministers that according to the criteria set out for the delivery of the donation report,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20876	To find out that the Commission did its job, as much as it could,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20877	The Commission has disbanded itself. She's not alone, she's alone.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20878	And now to define further work towards the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20879	Yes, it is. That's this conclusion you prepare for the vote. Vote now. So I figure with 19 votes for, one against, two abstentions, we've adopted this conclusion. And thus obtained the condition to cross the 19th agenda point, reviewing the conclusions on the establishment of the Research Commission to examine activities related to the construction of a customs terminal in Tuzla, which is 19. I apologize for the 18th point, excuse me. It's my fault. Ad.18. Proposal for a candidate for members of the BiH Council of Ministers' Office for Appeals You have received a proposal from the Council of Ministers to deliver to Parliament on 15 October 2005. I'll remind you that according to Article 49. The Law on Public Procurement The Office for Appeals consists of 3 members who are elected from the order of recognised experts from administrative or administrative proceedings and 3 members who are experts in the field of public procurement, transport and strategic business management and have been selected through public competition in a manner provided for in the legal acts. The Council of Ministers sets out a proposal for candidates following a public competition, taking into account that two members are from the Federation of BiH and one from RS. In accordance with Article 49(7) of the Law on Public Procurement, members of the Office for Appeals are appointed by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. You've got a proposal to appoint 5 candidates and that, 1. From the order of management experts, Amira Pilav, Dragica Miletić, Jasminka Putica, 2. From the order of experts in the field of public procurement, Blago Bošnjak, Kasim Bajramović, For a place of experts in the field of public procurement, the Council of Ministers will discuss the competition again. I'm opening a debate. Momčilo Novaković, here you go. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20880	Mr. Chairman, I have suggestions ahead of me, and now I don't understand something here. Namely, the first sentence in this case reads, the BiH Council of Ministers held at the 23rd session of 29.9. In 2005, it set out a proposal for candidates for members of the Board of Appeals, in Croatian, and concluded that the proposal was being informed by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. So, who's adopting the proposals? Do we inform ourselves of this or do we adopt it, because this is what we're informing ourselves of a proposal that is clearly unclear who adopts it. And since I've already taken my word that I'm not answering anymore, if we adopt then I also have one question, and that's the last attitude that says, for one month of public procurement experts, it's concluded to call a re-competition. Since it's national, I guess there's a national here, we actually have a 3 in the order of...debalans, so to speak, we have a 3 in the order of Bošnjak and one in the order of Srbin and Hrvat. Is it understood that when calling, the meaning of filling this place will be from the order of the Serbian people?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20881	Thank you. Is that all Momo? Here I'll just give you an interpretation, I read it. In accordance with Article 49 of Article 7 of the Public Procurement Act, members of the Office for Appeals, appoints the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, but since we refer to the Council of Ministers' proposal, today there is no one at the Council of Ministers to be ashamed again, to defend neither the competition nor the recompetition, I think it would be good to leave this point and to make a statement about it when the Proposer is present, that we can ask him a question because I cannot answer your question which should be answered by the Proposer. So, if you accept that we're postponing a statement on this, for the next session. Do the others agree? Thank you. There's no need to plead. We move to the 19th point of the agenda, but I ask that the Council of Ministers be informed in writing that we have removed the statement, only because they were not present to answer any questions. Nineteenth Point, Ad.19. The proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an investigative commission to examine activities related to the construction of a customs terminal in Tuzla, MP Selim Bešlagić, I am sorry, there is no promoter. On 14 March, MP Selim Bešlagić submitted a proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an investigative commission to investigate activities relating to the construction of a customs terminal in Tuzla. You've received a proposal for a conclusion. I'm opening a debate. Please, but okay, here's the deal. We've established this as a agenda, and I think we need to make a statement. Here you go, Mr. Zorić. You asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20882	Yes, I asked for a word and thank you for giving it to me. I suggest that in this Roman point I be Arabic 6 point and this line. Do I make myself clear? 52
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20883	I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20884	So in Roman and we have Arabic 6 and the same line as at 1,2,3,4.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20885	Okay, now it's clear. Make it six, I don't mind. Who else wants to discuss it? Here you go, Felić. Let's just see if we can form a commission, and then we can talk about candidates. So we agree to form a commission. I ask that two members be proposed.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20886	Hadžić Izet and Avdić Sead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20887	So I suggest Mr. Novaković and Nikola Špirić. Did you want to tell someone long?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20888	I must say, I have a dilemma here. I'd like to share it with my colleagues. In fact, here it is, conditionally speaking, some activity that has been done in the Federation of BiH and many would, yes, but not wanted for the entire regional centre. Here I am, Does this mean, then, that this investigation committee will be doing research for the entire regional centre? No, I mean for everything, not just for
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20890	The Commission will establish its task. So I suggest Novaković, Špirić, was the proposal,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20891	Hadžić Izet, Avdić Sead
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20892	I'd like two names, Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20893	Filip Andrić and Vlatka Komšić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20894	Thank you. We have six members. Prepare to vote. 53 Prepare to vote. Vote now. He proposed Novaković, Špirić. You passed Momo, thanks for esteeming you. So, we're done voting. For 21, no one against, one abstention. I find that we have received a commission in the composition that has been proposed. Moving to point 20. Ad.20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement from a) to (e) in the agenda There is no need for me to read and over-read in particular if there is no specific debate, to ratify all agreements with one vote. I'm opening a debate. No one's answering for a word. I'm closing the debate. I call on you to declare by voting on the ratification of the Agreement from a) to e. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, ladies and gentlemen, I agree that, unanimously with 26 votes in favour, we have ratified the following agreements, given agreement in fact on ratification under f) of the Agreement to take over the role of co-founder of the BiH Institute for Missing Persons between the Council of Ministers and the International Commission for Missing Persons, g) of the Agreement on the provision of air services between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, h) the Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Macedonia on Social Insurance, and) the Administrative Agreement for the implementation of the Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Macedonia on Social Insurance, and under j) the Note of the Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Slovenia on the conditions of the secret transfer of part of the contingent of the Republic of Slovenia to the benefit of BiH, We move to the 21st point of the agenda, that is, Add.21. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic on the Roads to BiH The proposal for a Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic was adopted in a different text of both homes, which requires the establishment of a commission in order to achieve a uniform text of the law. We need to appoint three members from the House of Representatives. Miloš Jovanović, president of the Commission and third member Izet, Jovanović, third member? The Sopta Ruža. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that with 26 votes, so we unanimously appointed three members to the Joint Commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the basis of the security of traffic on the roads of BiH, namely Mr Hadžić, Ruža Sopta and Mr Miloš Jovanović. 54 We move to item 22 of the agenda, Add 22. The appointment of one member in the Joint Commission of both homes to bring the Law on Public TV Service into line, instead of Mr Vink Zorić, whether there is a need to discuss Mr Zorić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20895	I suggest Mr. Ivo Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-08-0.u20896	So, if there's no further suggestion, I'd like to make a statement. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, unanimously, in fact, with 25 votes for, no one against, we have appointed Mr. Ivo Lozančić instead of Mr. Vink Zorić at the Joint Commission of both homes to bring the Law on Public TV Service into line. I wish him successful work in the Commission. By doing so, ladies and gentlemen, we are concluding today's session, and you will be informed of the next session in good time and will be delivered to you on the agenda and on the agenda. Thank you. The session was completed at 1440 hours.
