ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4047	Dear envoys, your Excellencys, honored guests, presentations of public information funds, I warmly welcome you all and open the 38th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. They justified their absence from today's session: Mr. Milojević's deputy chairman, on the official road, Mr. Halid Genajc is on the official road, everyone else is present. Out of the order of the Serb people, three envoys, from the ranks of the Croatian people, five envoys and four envoys from the order of the Bosniak people. A total of 12. For the 38th session, I propose the following updated agenda: 1. Answers to envoy questions and envoy questions, 2. Record of the 37th session, 3. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Central Bank of BiH, 4. Declaration by the People's House on the request of the Council ofminsitaries to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Public TV System of BiH, following a hasty procedure pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 5. A statement by the People's House on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the draft law on services for foreign affairs under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 99 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 6. A statement by the People's House on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Purpose and Use of Part of Assets, which BiH received under the agreement on expedience under the urgency procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 7. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, following a hasty procedure pursuant to Article 100 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 Proposal for a law on the participation of members of the BiH Armed Forces, police officers, state workers and other employees in peace support operations and other activities abroad, Proposer of the House of Representatives, 9. Proposal for a law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions on detention and other measures in BiH, 10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act, 11. Proposal for a Law on the Postales of BiH, 2 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act in BiH Banks, 13. Proposal for a decision on the sale of immovable property, 14. He gives consent to ratifying the European Convention on Extradition, 15 / 15 Giving consent to ratifying the European Convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, 16. Giving consent to ratifying the European Convention on the Transfer of Procedures in Criminal Matters, 17. Giving consent to ratifying the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes of Violence, 18. The BiH Ombudsman's special report on the parties' complaints concerning the work of the BiH Council of Ministers, the co-operation of the BiH Council of Ministers with the Ombudsmans for Human Rights, 19. Consideration (a) Information on all current future missions of members of the BiH Armed Forces with a report from the Joint Defence and Security Policy Committee, (b) Information on the participation of police officers in peacekeeping missions, with a report from the Joint Defence and Security Policy Committee. Here's a proposal on the agenda. I'm asking the envoys who are not to insert their I.D. cards, so they have full records. Thank you. We're going to discuss the agenda. Are there any reports? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We continue to work on the read agenda. Ad.1. Answers the envoy's questions and emissary questions who's answering? Mr. Limov has a desire to make a statement about the answer to his envoy's question. Here you go, Mr. Limov. Okay, here's to inform Dom, so only two answers have arrived for Mr. Milojević, and since he's not here today, there's no way of saying the answers. So it's about the question. Here you go, Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4048	Dear Mr. President and Vice President, fellow envoys, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Council of Ministers, professional services and other BiH institutions, distinguished guests, We welcome you all together, I would like to take this opportunity and ask a few questions and send one initiative. First questions. What properties were the users of JNA and Robna Reserve, which were located in the Bosnia and Herzegovina area sold by the institutions, to which they were sold and under what conditions? 3 Second question. What has the Council of Ministers and the relevant BiH institutions done so far and what will they do, to legally annul the sale of state property, which have carried out incompetent lower levels of power, selling foreign property, or state property? Who is responsible for so far missed or unprofessionally conducted legal and diplomatic activities, and what will the BiH Council of Institutors do to ensure that BiH does not definitely lose the Šipadova Luka in Sivenik? What is the status of the property of state, economic and other BiH entities located in the territory of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia, and what is the status of the property of the said states located in the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina? In addition to these questions which I refer to the Council of Ministers, I would like to refer a single initiative, and on the basis of Article 9. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and this initiative to establish a parliamentary commission for the implementation of activities and to establish a proposal for the text of Bosnia and Herzegovina's state anthem. Article 1(6) Bosnia and Herzegovina's constitution found that Bosnia and Herzegovina will have those symbols decided by its parliamentary assembly, approved by the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. The symbols of all normal, modern states are anthem, flag and coat of arms. It has been four years since the adoption of the Law on the National Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unfortunately, our country's anthem still has only musical but not text content. Respecting the needs and interests of the state and the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also respecting the constitutional responsibility of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I propose that the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH establish a special committee of six members who, together with the House of Representatives' Commission, would be able to carry out the necessary procedure and to establish, namely, the selection of the text of the Bosnia and Herzegovina national anthem, which would be proposed for adoption of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I leave it to our colleague that I am assessing how to conduct the procedure in terms of this initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4049	I thank Mr. Limov. Mr. brkati, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4050	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues, distinguished guests, respected journalists, I welcome you all, and I cannot help but ask one question both to the College and the public, and the answer would be in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I hate to watch the show "60 minutes" because I know her messages from time to time, but sometimes when there's nothing else on the second channel, then I look at it for a few minutes while I can watch it. And, last night, unfortunately, I turned on television, right at the moment when there was a conversation between our fellow MP from the House of Representatives and a guest on that show supposedly some high-integrated intellectual, who performed like that. 4 I ask the question of the College what will our college do, and I have my proposal on this show. I propose that this show be reviewed and that the House College come out loud and loud once and say that such a way of democracy as this respected intellectual, under quotes, cannot be in BiH a benchmark of value as it advocates. I, indeed, think that it has gone beyond every measure of humanity, courtesy, the act of calling on a public lynch, no less than delegates and MPs in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The second thing is how much it takes for him to serve honor, but it should serve the honor of those who have chosen such a man on the Federal Television Management Board and who give him very often, very big minutes on their shows, especially sixty minutes. I am, indeed, asking that there be law in this country and that we have laws for all people. Those who are calling for a public link did not simply realise that the time of diversity in BiH came and that this should be resolved through democratic means, dialogue, consensus and the like. His one-mindedness has passed, time has passed, and I find our home very clear and loud to tell the responsible what to do about it. I think the show should also be looked at by the BiH Public Prosecutor, the Prosecutor's Office and done what needs to be done. I feel that I had no right to remain silent and therefore ask that question, or the task of our colleague, to do what needs to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4051	I thank Mr. Brk. Who else wants to ask a question? Mr. Čengić. Mr. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4052	I am taking this opportunity to welcome the House Presidency, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community and the media, and only to supplement what Mr. Brka said. I would ask the College to go public in co-operation with the Second House College with official information as from the beginning of this term of office of the Parliamentary Assembly until yesterday, and how many of those laws, adopted in the Parliamentary Assembly, were imposed by the High Representative? We, therefore, have now become the object of a kind of attack on state institutions, above all on the Parliamentary Assembly, for reasons that I cannot understand. I think the public will understand them better when I get out with this data. So, it would be very important to officially and officially, if not both at home, but at our college compulsory, at a press conference to get to know the number of laws this House has adopted in this term and how many laws it has imposed. I would ask you, too, to make a comparison, given that we are from about two years to a few months in this mandate to make a comparison with the previous mandate and the results made there. I don't object to anyone for either one simply, just to see the parameters again in two directions. How many laws were passed in the previous assembly, and how many of these laws were imposed by the High Representative so that it could be seen because we were here last night in a situation to hear the absolute misinformation. So, a deliberate and elaborate prank, which went both into the announcement and the 5 that was repeated in the debate on the work of the Parliamentary Assembly, that two-thirds of the laws adopted in this term had been imposed by the High Representative. So, it's such a kind of misinformation that it actually borders on Blasmey and, in fact, it doesn't even represent information anymore... it's an attack on state institutions, and above all, right at the Parliamentary Assembly. Not entering, not at all, nor into the elements discussed, and especially about the things that are still open, so, which are being discussed, I'm only talking about the fact that the law has been passed and how much of these laws have been imposed by the High Representative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4053	I thank Mr. Čengić. Who else wants to ask a question? No, as a member of the College, currently chairing our home, I will say that the College, in accordance with Article 17 of our Rules of Procedure, will do everything that has been discussed on these issues and also do everything in its jurisdiction, and in accordance with this current Rules of Procedure, that indeed the right and quality information of the public and those part of the public who wants to convey the right information and the truth about all the issues, so we are not closed, on the contrary, we are open and we want to talk about all the public and arguments and I really think that all those who are responsible, and above all I mean public information, to be at the level of their responsibilities and to come to the right information and to publish only the real information of the truth, nothing else should be spoken in comment can be given and sometimes some judgment about something, but the facts must be true. And it really was on a tell-all and some other false, elemental false shows. And I think we're going to have to work on that, because otherwise, it's created, let me tell my one thought and assessment, one public picture when it actually became a shame to be a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament. I think it's bad. It's supposed to be an honor, not a shame. In particular, calls for the physical link of parliamentarians, I think it is a first-rate scandal, to use the public media, to invite people and citizens to come to Parliament and to Parliament with baseball bats, I think it is outrageous. Not famous. I don't know what the difference between that aid and someone else who might have other intentions, etc. I don't even know how to deal with parliamentarians. Here, thank you for these questions. I will repeat, do everything again, repeat, in accordance with Rule 17 of the Rules of Procedure, which says that the College is in charge of the exercise of the rights and duties of the envoys involved in the conduct of their duties, and I think this can be done precisely under this provision, and we will do everything, here I am about so much. Any other questions? There isn't. Thank you. We're done, Mr. Pajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4054	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow delegates, honored guests, On the matter first of all Mr. Osman Brk, I expected something more concrete than you as chairman. Now I hear something, I don't think it's appropriate already if the question is already being asked if something is being discussed, that we're all being called, I feel also called for something, but I think it was correct to make it clear and loud 6 says who it was and at least more concretely what it was said, if the question is already being asked. I'm in doubt right now because I feel like one of my fellow delegates said something. Now we're all in the same basket. I don't know what this is about. I didn't watch the show, so I wasn't informed, and I wouldn't want anyone to get the impression, maybe if we were all in that same basket and we were doing something that wasn't right to be done, which is inappropriate to delegates in the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4055	Thank you, Mr. Pajić. Mr. brkati will explain.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4056	I thank you. I thought we were all familiar about it because I didn't go wide. Last night, on the show "60 minutes" was a dialogue between our colleague Mire Jović from the House of Representatives and Slave Kukić, I cannot call him a gentleman with such a dictionary as he performs on the public media where he is a member of the Management Board and he called for a public, very much disinformation he said, very much, and I will now tell you only one. Just now, Mr Hasan Čengić said that he said that two-thirds of the laws in the Parliamentary Assembly were passed in our assembly, thanks only to the High Representative. We passed 147 laws, 21 passed by the High Representative. So he said one notorious lie, a huge lie, wasn't a small huge lie, because he was right in that step. However, the crown of everything was, when he spoke about the work of Parliament, a colleague of mine, I hope you will understand that he told you that Parliamentarians are doing so badly and so seek some privileges of enormous, abnormal, that he simply recommends to the people that the people take the bats, baseball bats and come to Parliament and beat us here. I don't think such a man can be, in my opinion, by his own qualities or by a member of the Federal Television Management Board, and the Federal Television broadcast that show, because the editor probably knew what he was going to say at the end of the show, because that's usually how it works, and I don't think that this is what Parliament can say. And that's why I asked our College to take action, and the chairman-in-law said, within the limits of our Rules of Procedure, that we would take certain measures. I think you get it now.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4057	Thank you, Mr. brkati. If there are no more questions, then we're done with the first point and we've moved on to the second item of the agenda. Ad.2. Does the record from the 37th session of the House of Peoples have any objections to this record? If not, I suggest we make a statement on this record. 7 You can approach the vote. We'll do it again, I'm sorry. We can do it now. We'll do it again, I apologize to everyone. You can vote now. I suggest we vote in the usual way, manually, so I invite you to plead by raising your charts. Who's in? Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted the record from our 37th session. Let's move on, I guess the technique will get better by then. Ad.3. A report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Central Bank of BiH You have received a report. Is there a need? There isn't. I suggest that the House of Representatives adopt this report, I suggest we approach the adoption of this report. Who's for the report, who's for? I thank and realize that we unanimously adopted the Report of the Joint Commission on Efforts to reach an agreement on the same text of the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Central Bank of BiH, which passed this law. Ad.4. Declaration by the People's House on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Law to the Public TV System of BiH, following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of the Peoples of Leader are discussed whether the law will be considered in a shortened manner. The House of Representatives has adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to shorten the deadlines for considering this House. Who's answering for a word? Niko. I'm closing the debate. We're pleading procedure. We can vote again electronically. You can vote. Voting results 10 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. I agree that most of us have adopted a request from the Council of Ministers for the Law on the Public TV System of BiH to be considered under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. That's what we're done with point four. And we're going to the fifth item of the agenda. 8 Ad.5. A statement by the People's House on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Service for Foreign Affairs under the hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 99 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples are being debated whether the law will be considered in a shortened manner. The House of Representatives has adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to shorten the deadlines for reviewing this law. Who's calling for a hearing? I'm closing the debate and calling for a plea. You can vote now. I'm finding the results of the statement. So we unanimously made a decision to consider this law by a brief procedure. That's what we're done with the 5th agenda. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda. Ad.6. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Purpose and Use of Part of Assets, which BiH has received under the Agreement on Sucession under the Rapid Procedure, pursuant to Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples are being debated whether the law will be considered in a shortened manner. The House of Representatives has adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to shorten the deadlines for reviewing this law. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I'm calling for a plea. You can vote. I'm finding the results of the vote. We unanimously adopted a request from the Council of Ministers for this law to be considered under a shortened procedure under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Ad.7. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 100 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the People's House in accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on the requirement for the law to be considered in accordance with this article after the debate. The House of Representatives adopted this law as a matter of urgency. Amendments shall not be submitted in accordance with Article 100(3). I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate and calling for a plea. You can vote. I'm finding the results of the vote. With 11 votes in favour, one envoy did not vote. We have decided to consider this law in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I'm opening a debate about the law. Who's calling for raps? There are no reports. I call for a statement of the law. You can vote. I find that we unanimously passed this law. So, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement in BiH. 9 Ad.8. Proposal for a law on the participation of members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces, police officers, state workers and other employees in peace support operations and other activities abroad, Proposer House of Representatives, you have received the law as well as a report from the committee responsible. This is the first reading of the law, Article 90. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. The House of Representatives passed this law at its 48th session, held on 22 December 2004. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Limov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4058	Dear Mr. President, distinguished fellow envoys, from a report of January 26th. The Joint Commission of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, shows that members of the BiH Armed Forces participate in UN-sponsored peacekeeping missions in Ethiopia, i.e. in Eritrea, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and that the practical final preparations of a military unit of the BiH Armed Forces for participation in operations, etc. coalition forces in Iraq. The mission to Iraq is not within the UN. As far as I'm concerned, God is. The aforementioned report by our joint commission states that police officers, I quote, "From the Federation of BiH and RS take part in three UN-sponsored peacekeeping missions in East Timur, Liberia and Haiti". The participation of members of the armed forces or police as well as civil protection, as well as other officials of any modern country abroad, represents the international activity of that country. With us, the main actors are told international activities today. The process is going on and we're very likely to be witnessing important changes in this regard. All of the aforementioned activities of the participation of our military and police forces in international peacekeeping missions abroad are practically not based on the law, on the BiH Law. In fact, there is simply no law that would regulate this issue at country level. Today, it is an opportunity for us to get the law that is our need, our interest, and the obligation that arises in Article IV.4.a. The BiH Constitution, according to which the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has the capacity to pass laws to implement the Presidency's decisions or to exercise the powers of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. This means practically that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly was mandatory after the BiH presidency decided on our participation in an international peacekeeping mission, passed a law that would regulate this issue. It has been ten months since the MP at the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Momčilo Novaković, referred to the parliamentary procedure of the law on the participation of members of the BiH Armed Forces, civil servants and other employees in peacekeeping operations and other activities abroad. There's no need to trouble us now about our business deadlines, but now we're where we are. I have four laws ahead of me, and all four of those ten laws are similar in terms of the content and the problems that these laws are poisoning. And, of course, in a few of these laws or versions of the law are different. First, I have in my hands, therefore, a request already mentioned by the representative, a colleague from the House of Representatives Mr Momčilo Novaković referred to the parliamentary procedure sometime on 20 April 2004. Then I have a law which I referred to in the procedure on July 7th 2004 and which in several different ways treats this issue, i.e. the content is not exactly the same. There are important differences. I have the same law or text that our committee, the Joint Committee for Defence and Security Policy, finally came up with and oversees the work of these services at BiH level. And I have a fourth version of the law of the Republic of Croatia, of course, now the question is why I need that law. I made this law to remind myself that what my colleague Novaković did was the prescribed law of the Republic of Croatia, and that is one version of the bad copying of the law of the Republic of Croatia, which is why I was actually in the procedure and referred to it in the 7th month of last year, conditionally my version for which I do not know what her destiny is. As far as I know, it was a debate, or this committee decided to send it to someone, I'm petitioning the Council of Ministers, although I'm not officially informed about it, and if I've been waiting for that day at the Commission's meeting, yes, I'll probably declare myself, or should I say my opinion on it, if you want to do so. In any case, I suppose it's somewhere in one of the drawers as well as a series of other legal projects standing in the drawers of some people in the Council of Ministers or something else. Of course, with the fact that it is necessary for us to get this law, I feel the need to say certain things that I appreciate should or should be the content of this law and in that sense to answer both the question and to warn not only about the difference but also the specificity which is the characteristic of our country's recovery, therefore, Bosnia and Herzegovina. I must say that the Commission has certainly made significant efforts to correct this text and that it has done well in this respect and, in this respect, I congratulate the Commission, and I especially congratulate them in that part of what, in a certain way, let me use an expression that may not be appropriate, but it has first come to my mind "shut" out of this law philosophy of Entitatism. In the modern world, it is, by the way, a very colorful practice when it comes to legitimate solutions to this problem. So it's very difficult to find some model that you could apply, or say BiH, here's the law for you, that's actually what you can hope for. So, it's a very charming practice and I'm going to say a two- or three models very briefly and, of course, I'm not going to talk about the Croatian model. So, first in the U.S. Congress, or Parliament conducts a debate and vote on sending troops outside the United States, and even if the world's most powerful power has a presidential system, their president can send troops out of the United States only for 92 days, and for an extension, he needs the consent of Congress, or Parliament. This basically means that 11 presidents of the United States are more powerful than our members of the presidency, not to speak more powerful entity governments, because they decide. One of my colleagues recently when I discussed a similar problem asked me if it was true that the Federation government had made a decision on the extension of the mission in Liberia, I said yes and now I say yes. So, of course the second model, which is interesting, at least I think it's interesting for us, is a model that has Sweden. Of course, there Parliament makes key decisions and, what is interesting for each mission, Parliament makes a special law, which means that Parliament knows all the elements of the mission given and that these elements are embedded and then Parliamentarians commit themselves to whether it is what is the interest, primarily Sweden, but also the general interest of their participation in international peace missions. We have an interesting situation, let's say, in the Netherlands. In Article 100 of the Dutch Constitution, they clearly specify that in the early stages, therefore, in the very beginning, the government and parliament, they must agree with each other, and this again implies that Parliament, before it initiates the activities of the preparation of the given mission, knows the relevant elements. Of course, this time I won't mention the Nepali-type countries or those where the dear leaders determine everything, although with a little irony I can say that when it comes to preparing this next mission, there seem to be some dear leaders among us. Now, of course, why am I taking this one? So I am saying for the simple reason to say that we have spent too much time, that we have not included all the subjects properly in the concrete activity, and even by the solution of this law that the Commission proposes, Parliament is expected at a certain point, to practically stop the whole procedure, and now in a concise case that would cause these issues, it is too much to say. Because we already have an officer in the U.S., we have an officer in Qatar, I don't know our people are preparing for a humanitarian mission, practicing offensive attacks, and so, we saw it on TV. So, therefore, these are all the elements that need to be discussed in Parliament. Of course, there goes the text of the law, where, in my deep conviction, it unwarrantedly dropped the police force. So, the first colleague, Novaković, dropped the police force, and it was well noticed by our commission and put it in the name of the law, but also in the content of a solution relating to the police. But I'm surprised they didn't notice they were dropped, civil protection was dropped. She has to the soul in some laws, there are actually in most of these laws, because, especially these days, we are witnessing certain unkind events that nature has imposed, and where we actually see ourselves as BiH, we see ourselves as we have acted, we have treated, etc. and, if there were offers of certain examples of medics, doctors and how much of this I know practically from the realization and, as such, there was no change in the aid. And, I don't think anyone should be convinced that in one of these laws it is necessary to regulate the issues of the engagement of our firemen, mountain service members, biological chemical decontaminationists, medics, humanitarians, etc. These are all specialized teams and mahogany persons, therefore, civil character, without whose engagement it is difficult to achieve success in individual missions. I am afraid that the solutions in the law offered by our commission are underlining the commitment of our people to work in peacekeeping missions abroad with the UN Charter of Chapters VI and VII, as well as with the auspices of the UN mission. 12 Also, the formulation for which the Peace Support Operations Commission has been identified, as it is in the law, shows that there are not enough members of the Commission to first of all consult or to say directly familiar with the definition of peacekeeping missions given by the united peoples, because, if they were, then practically, they should not touch the initial formulation of Mr Novaković, which speaks of peace support or, I used the expression of the peace mission. Why am I saying this? Because the UN on its website defines five types of peacekeeping missions. And, of course, it's the achievement of peace, the preservation of peace, the implementation of peace, the building of peace and the humanitarian mission. And I personally think that we should stay in that initial formulation as determined by colleague Novaković, because it is very difficult to classify all and these five types of support for peace. There is, therefore, a characteristic of each of these missions. If it is difficult for anyone to look for a website, I, I suppose it may be helpful for us parliamentarians to read chapter 22 of page 153. The Parliamentary Manual, titled "Parliamentary Surveillance of the Security Sector, Principles of Mechanisms and Practices", was issued by the Interparliamentary Union, the OSCE Mission and the Centre for Democratic Control of the Geneva Armed Forces. If we were asked now to state what kind of system we want to build, I assume that the vast majority, not only of parliamentarians, but also of other people in BiH, would operate on a system of parliamentary democracy. I think that definition should also be taken into account on the occasion of the production and of these legal projects, as it is before us today. And that means that a key role in this activity, however, has a Parliament, because it makes key decisions and I personally advocate that Parliament in the early, here, conditionally speaking, on a Dutch example, I have warned about what early stages mean, that in the early stages, therefore, Parliament is properly involved in the overall activity, so that it does not happen when the matter is brought to an end, that we are practically here having a debate and questioning in some situations, at least theoretically speaking, perhaps even the whole mission. Of course, passing this law is a convenient opportunity for us to finally regulate a single question, which I don't understand. I wish the commission had sent me and told me that it couldn't because, that someone wouldn't, etc. but I think this law, that the content of this law should be, with the rest, regulated legal problems of stationing, deployment and action of foreign armed forces, police and officials in missions in BiH territory. I don't know what's dangerous here or what's wrong with that. And I don't think we should ignore this question nine to ten years after Dejton. I would understand this only in the case of an argumentable way of saying why this is not going, or perhaps it is the Commission's commitment to make a special law that will regulate this issue, and yet again this parliamentary assembly and our commission have the right and I personally as far as I am concerned, I am prepared in an appropriate manner and in this activity to participate, at least here as a representative in the House of Peoples. Of course, why is this important? Well, it is important because of the fact that we have it, and no one is stopping us from regulating it legally, that we are not always dependent and that we are not always an object in this, but that we are legally ourselves in a position to actually be in the right way of the subject who will participate in the talks, in the decision-making process, so if you want to be in control, 13 because Parliament is in fact a place where we need to exercise and control and one of the essential weaknesses is precisely an insufficient determination of Parliament's role in terms of monitoring the implementation of appropriate peacekeeping missions. Of course, I am, respecting the fact that there is an interest in the part of those who take part today and for some other questions, trying to concentrate as much as I could and not to be distracted by these rather loud sounds from the mouth of some, first of all, here is the chairman told me by the observer, so that in a certain way it is out of the way what I said and I don't need to specifically underline on the basis of what is now said and what I have said so far, it is clear that I can't support the proposed text of the law, because I would agree to solutions, which I don't think have an adequate professional, content and conceptual level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4059	I thank Mr. Limov. Who else wants to take part in the debate? No more reports. So we're discussing first reading. We've finished the debate, I'm calling for a statement on the law in the first reading. You can vote. I'm finding the results of the vote. So, with 11 votes to, 1 vote against, we passed the Law in the first reading. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. I'm making a statement. You can vote. I'm finding the results of the vote. 11 votes for, 1 vote against. I realize we decided to do another reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. The new amendments were submitted by Mr Tomislav Limov. However, it did not comply with the deadline set out in Article 89(1). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, which reads. That at least 48 hours before the beginning of the session, amendments should be renewed. I got the information that Mr. Limov did it late, and that's not why there was a reason. Sometimes we had a situation that the commission had a session just before or no more than two days before the House session began, so in that case we made an exception that was logical, and then the amendments could have been submitted until the very beginning of the House session. We will also use this practice in the future, but we will stick to all other cases of the Rules of Procedure, as set out in Article 89(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Limov, if you want, you can.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4060	I can do that. Well, first of all, I got this on Friday by our commission, but if you look at the paperwork a little bit then you'll see that there's one two months that I sent this and just addressed it to the MPs, with the intent that there was no compliance with the dynamics of activity in the commission phase between the two homes. So, given the 14th fact that everything is known from the statement, there's no problem you're running further activity as you wish, but just to have the information that two months ago I forwarded these same amendments and addressed them to the envoys.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4061	Here I already have the information, therefore, was the House of Representatives, but our session was scheduled on time, it was a deadline, the deadline is known, the Rules of Procedure wrote and the commission ended on 16, you were 17 on Friday, so there were four days until today, or five days. I run in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We're going to a debate. Who wants to take part in the debate? There are no amendments. I call on us to make a statement about the law, the law in the second reading. You can vote. I'm finding the results of the statement, the vote, with 11 votes against, 1 vote against, we passed the law in the second reading. Since the law in the same text has been passed in the House of Representatives, there is no need to agree and thus the Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of BiH, police officers, state employees and other employees in peace support operations and other activities abroad is voted in the final text. We're moving to agenda nine. Ad.9. A proposal for a law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures in Bosnia and Herzegovina has given you the law as well as a report from the competent commission. This is the first reading of the law, Article 90 is the first debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. You have received a report from the committee responsible, which adopted 37 amendments, which are identical to the amendments adopted at the House of Representatives. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. Is there a need on behalf of an authorised, competent commission, if desired? There isn't. There's no need. We declare the law in the first reading. You can vote. Here's a business intervention. We are currently without a quorum and we must wait for Mr. Šiljegović, so we will have to repeat this vote. Since Boško the head of the club, then he doesn't have a boss, so we have to wait for him. Here, I suggest we continue our work, Mr. Šiljegović has arrived, we have the quorum. 15 I call therefore on us to plead in our first reading on the proposal for a law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures in BiH. You can vote. I find that we unanimously, with 12 votes, passed the law in our first reading. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. You can vote. The results of the vote, 11 votes in favour, we'll go to another reading unanimously. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the Law. There were no new amendments. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports, I conclude the debate, and I call for a statement on the law. Here's your vote. We're voting on the law in the second reading. I'm finding the results of the vote, and we unanimously passed the law in the second reading. I find that the Law on the execution of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures in BiH was adopted in the same text as in the House of Representatives and thus adopted in the final version. We move to the next item of the agenda, regular number 10, Add.10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act You have received the law as a report from the competent commission. This is the first reading of the law, Article 90. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. The House of Representatives adopted this law in the first and second readings in the proposed text. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. We're voting on the law in the first reading. You can vote. I agree that we unanimously adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure in First Reading. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. We plead. You can vote. I agree that we unanimously adopted a decision to do another reading of this law. 16 The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. There was no amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr Filipović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4062	Thank you very much for your word. I welcome all present. There have been amendments. That's why I'm calling. As a relevant committee, the Constitutional and Legal Commission discussed the proposal for a law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures. She rated this as a very important law. We have estimated that this law should have this, even today, and therefore, the College of the Commission, Mr Neimarlija, Šiljegović and I would have accepted amendments to the House of Representatives, only a little bit of what is the problem?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4063	The problem is, it's the law before we passed, and in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act there were no amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4064	Excuse me. So I messed up the order, sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4065	I was going to say, but here's what we've been saying, so there's been no new amendments. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? There isn't. I conclude the debate and call for us to vote on the law in the second reading. You can vote now. I agree that we unanimously passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act. And since it was adopted in the same text as the House of Representatives, this law has finally been passed. I have another suggestion, that since we've done half of our scheduled agenda, that we now have a break by 2:00 and in that time we can, of course, have lunch. So we pick up at 2:00. We're going back to work. [[PAUZA]] Once again, I'd like to ask all MPs, the envoys to check that their cards are identified in the position they're supposed to be in. We've reached the 11th item of the agenda, 17 Ad.11. You've received the bill as a report from the committee responsible. This is the first reading of the law, Article 90. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. The House of Representatives passed this law in the first and second readings with 13 amendments. The House of Nations' competent committee adopted 11 amendments that have become an integral part of the current law. I'm opening a debate. Who's picking up the word? Mr. Čengić,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4066	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the International Community, representatives of the media, we have before us the Law on Post Offices. I hope, if there are questions, we have a chance to get answers from the Council of Ministers. This law is interesting for two reasons. First, because for the first time in post-day BiH, the rights and position of operators and all the main rules of conduct and relations within BiH's territory among operators as well as BiH's relations, BH operators with operators from other countries. The interesting thing about this law is that for the first time this law started, namely, it started being prepared in 1998. Here, I think we'll soon be able to celebrate 7 years as it began working on this law. So, then, stopped in 2001, in order for me to understand, last year's work to be restored, and today we have a situation where we have a law ahead of us. Very briefly, the law does not have a large number of members. He's very clear. At the Commission for Foreign Trade Policy on 29th in a row, this law has been considered as the competent commission. There was a number of amendments, of which one number of amendments was accepted, one number of amendments were not accepted, and it is that the Commission for Foreign Trade Policy accepted the text of the law with certain revisions which were translated into amendments and which you received in the report. The point of the amendment is that, in my opinion, only better technical solutions and repairs have occurred in technical terms, and in some places perhaps clarifications of the text so as not to give rise to reflection. I'll just warn you there's one flaw in the report. In Article 10(c) of the Law, instead of in the first row, it brings technological regulations of interest, and in the second row it says – especially regulations that, instead of words – should be said in particular – and proposes. All the rest of the text remains exactly the same. In this way, the general conditions for the provision of postal services and general standards of universal postal services will be 18 proposed by the Post Office and adopted or adopted by the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Given that the Commission has had a unique position on all issues, and given that there are certain differences between the draft text of the law proposed by our Commission, if the House adopts the text proposal as adopted by this committee, then it will be necessary to set up a Conciliation Commission, because the House of Representatives adopted the proposal for this law in something different text. To conclude, on behalf of the Commission, we propose that this law is now considered both in the first and second readings and that, by respecting the amendments accepted on the Commission, we accept the law as a whole in both readings, and thus we come into a situation to come into effect soon after the text has been agreed between the two homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4067	I thank Mr. Čengić. Who else wants to talk? Is there a need for a representative of the motion? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'm the one who concludes the debate in the first reading. And I call for a vote, so we vote on the law in the first reading. You can vote. I find that most votes, with 11 votes in favour, and one abstention, have passed the Law on the Post Office of BiH in the first reading. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. That's what we'll decide by voting. You can vote now. I find that we have unanimously made a decision to do another reading. In the second reading, there is a debate on amendments and a vote on the law. There were no new amendments. I'm opening a debate. Who's calling for a hearing? There are no reports. I am concluding the debate and calling for a vote on the law in the second reading. You can vote. Okay, well, I suggest that it does have full regularity, so let's do this vote again. I call on us to vote again. Vote now. I agree that with 11 votes for, 1 abstention, we passed the Law on the Post Office of BiH in a second reading. 19 Thus the Law was adopted in our house in a different text than that of the House of Trusts, and it is necessary to appoint a committee to agree with the texts. Here are the club representatives, Mr. Hilmo,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4068	Colaga Hasan Čengić in front of the Bosniak Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4069	Sir, I'll Spajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4070	Croatian club, Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4071	Mr. Šiljegović,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4072	Mr. Vinko Radovanović
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4073	Thank you. You heard the suggestion. Who's up for this proposal? I agree that we unanimously adopted a decision on the appointment of the Commission for text alignment in the composition, Mr Čengić, Jukić i Radovanović. That's what we're done with the 11th agenda. Moving to agenda 12, Add.12. The draft law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act in BiH banks has given you the law as a report from the competent commission. This is the first reading of the law, Article 90. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. The House of Representatives passed this law in both readings with one amendment. The committee responsible adopted the law in the proposed text. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I call for a statement on the law in the first reading. You can vote. I find that we unanimously passed the law in our first reading. I suggest we do another reading. That's what we're going to say by voting. 20 you can vote. I realize that we unanimously passed the law, did the law reading, did the second reading of the law. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. New amendments, the new amendment was submitted by the College of the House of Peoples. In order to comply with the text of the House of Representatives, it is actually a small repair. Therefore, in Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Economic Area (‘the EEA Agreement’), the European Economic Area (‘the EEA Agreement’), the European Economic Area (‘the EEA Agreement’), the European Economic Area (‘the EEA Agreement’), the European Economic Area (‘the EEA Agreement’), the European Economic Area (‘the EEA Agreement’), and the Swiss So we decided on the College to do this, to avoid unnecessary consent, because it's actually only one thing, here's the language repair, or more precise determination. Can we accept a amendment like this? I'm making an amendment to the plea. Here, vote. I find that we have read, said amendment, adopted unanimously and it becomes an integral part of the text. Does anyone want to discuss the law before voting on the law? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. And I call for a vote on the law with the amendment that we adopted. You can vote. I agree that we unanimously passed the law in the second reading and the same text was adopted as in the House of Representatives and thus this law was adopted definitely in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We're done with the 12th agenda, and we're moving on to the 13th agenda. It says, Ad.13. The motion for a decision on the sale of immovable property has given you a report from the committee responsible. The Commission supported the proposal for a decision on the sale of immovable property. The House of Representatives adopted a decision on the sale of immovable property. I'm opening the debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Limov, Mr. Limov, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4074	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4075	Okay, Mr. Limov, the committee responsible, Mr. Ilija Filipović. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4076	Thank you very much for your word. So this is a very hot topic, a topic that received such a charge before this House session, that it wasn't so I won't say anything more, beyond what the Constitutional and Legal Commission said. We have been discussing the proposal for this decision on the sale of immovable property, we have had before us a decision and we have acted in a way that, most of the votes of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, we have proposed to the House to consider and make such a decision. In view of the fact that this is really about the property of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and there is nothing controversial, therefore Parliament decides, since the funds from the sale of such immovable property are the budget of the BiH state. The budget of the BiH state can only be brought by Parliament. We had with the Decision on the sale of immovable property which has four articles and the conclusion that he followed, the conclusion of the Council of Ministers who followed, which was also delivered to us, signed by the chairman of Mr Terzić. In point 2 of that conclusion, the interregion states that this decision that we are deciding on today is a general act that will regulate the issue of sales of immovable property under the Succession Agreement, that such an act should be taken by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, since the holder of ownership is registered to this immovable state of BiH. And to determine how the funds will be spent. So that's what the Council of Ministers is asking of us. Next, we also have the conclusion proposed by this, Mr Čengić, but you have one addition to this decision, which was forwarded by the Council of Ministers. I'm surprised it didn't suggest and this way of spending the funds, it would make it easier for us to work here, and at the same time, in the same form, that decision already taken by the House of Representatives would have passed. So, the Constitutional and Legal Commission followed the House's decision, and most of the votes suggested this House to consider this decision, assess and make this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4077	I thank Mr Filipović. Just a moment, Mr. Limov. Because this topic, these days, is very current, that a certain number has appeared, or at least one association of students, and the public is talking about this, it is actually a very attractive location from some 130 thousand circus around here, square meters in the city center, so the former Vojarna Marshall Tito with all the facilities that are also devastated mainly, etc. And it's very interesting, so here's the purpose and future of this entire space. We have this decision, or a proposal for sale by the Council of Ministers. That's what we're going to decide today. However, in order to make a quality decision and remove any dilemmas whether everything is in accordance with the law and the applicable regulations in this country, it would be good to use ourselves here, here is the presence of the deputy public defender, Mrs Miletić, so I would invite her to tell us, from this aspect, something about this legal work. Mrs. Miletić, please. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4078	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, guests, it is my honor to welcome you on behalf of the Attorney General and on my own behalf. As far as this is concerned, you have a decision on the sale of immovable property. I would before I tried to give, there were actually no questions, but I'm going to say that this decision was made in accordance with all the positive regulations. First, I have to tell you, what I want to tell you, which is that the BiH State is the head of the right to dispose of the property in question. As the holder of the right of disposal, i.e. the right to property, it can decide on the status of its property. So he can keep them in his possession, he can lease them, and he can sell them, too. So, the BiH state, through the Council of Ministers and through both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly, can make a decision to transport these properties. So there are no legal obstacles to the same traffic. There are no legal obstacles. I have to say, if you want me to give you any more legal status before this one, '91. these properties and legal status now. In fact, before, by the year '91 in the land-book excerpt, these properties were registered as state property. In the ownership list was the owner of the SFRY or SSNO, and until '96, when the Government of the Republic of BiH transferred those properties, it only transferred the right to use. I need to explain here. So, by decision of '96. of May, the Government of the Republic of BiH has transferred only the right to use the University and not the right to dispose. So you know. After that, there was an enrolment in the land books, but I have to do the same as I told the House of Representatives that the enrolment in the land books was illegal. Namely, what happened. The property legal service of the Novo Sarajevo Municipality has adopted a solution that has also transferred the right to have and to use it at the University. So she transferred more rights than the Government of the Republic of BiH conveyed in its '96 Decision. Afterwards, I asked the Property and Law Service to adopt under the right of supervision to amend its solution, annul this solution and to establish the holder of the right of disposal, Bosnia and Herzegovina, in accordance with the Agreement on Sucession issues, since aneks a of these properties belonged to BiH as the holder of the right of disposal and, of course, because the property is located on BiH territory. After that, the Property and Legal Service adopted a solution and found that BiH's right to be available. We have also established the termination of the right to use these properties, we have made enrolment in land books and land books now, the BiH state is being held as the holder of the rights of availability and use and in the ownership list. Therefore, there is no legal interference that the same properties are being trafficked, if they decide the relevant factors here, for the Council of Ministers and both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4079	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Čengić. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4080	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to ask you a few questions. The first question is, who was registered as head of ownership of kasarni Maršal Tito until '92 until BiH's international recognition?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4081	I've already given the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4082	Okay, but here I am, I'm not obviously, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4083	...the ownership list included the SFRY or SSNO ownership list, and in land books was social property and according to the Law on the Conversion of Assets, it became state property, which means the property of the BiH state.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4084	At this point, before we decided what would happen next to this property, who is it, who is this property registered to?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4085	This property today in a land-book copy, here I am, with evidence here, to present it to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4086	Just say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4087	At this time, the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina is registered in both the land and the land.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4088	Next question. Is there more real estate or immovableity on BiH territory that was registered before the war as the property of the SSNO, i.e....?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4089	I have to say, the D.A. collects information about such property and I have to say the same, that there is no state-level body that would keep records of these properties and that makes it difficult for us. And you know the powers of the D.A.'s office, that it's 24 legal representatives of the state and its bodies and is not an authority that will collect real estate data.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4090	However, I ask you, do you know as an institution and for one, the only real estate on BiH territory until the war or before the war in '91. Was she enrolled as SSNO property? Were there any of them,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4091	So we have, we're just collecting data, we've got some land-book offices and real estate clusters.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4092	So you have a record. No, all but one.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4093	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4094	Okay, next question. On today, apart from this facility, was another facility listed as the property of the BiH state, and before that was the property of the SSNO-A, before the war?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4095	The Attorney General shall carry out these activities, legal actions or,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4096	Is there even one object that, as such, is currently listed in social property today?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4097	Well, it's in the land books, like I said. You know what, land-booked possession books, actually cadastar books aren't set up, you know, and somewhere they didn't write real estate as the holder of the right to the state of BiH, or the former SRBiH, but only state property and according to the legal order, it's the property of the BiH state.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4098	Is there another property on BiH territory that was included in the ownership books, like the property of an SSNO which today is registered as state property in the same way as the Kasarna Maršal Tito facility, in the same way? 25
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4099	I can't answer the question now, if my colleague might have been doing anything about it, but I was, no.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4100	While you were, no.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4101	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4102	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4103	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4104	The debate is under way. Mr. Limov checked in, but we've been waiting to see here, the lawyer's exposure. Here you go, Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4105	Well, and thank you, Mr. President, it certainly helped me, especially this first part, when the lady exhibited even though the dilemmas had only just opened after answering the question of a respected colleague, Čengić. But I'll, no matter what, make my point about this. However, before I say anything at all, I would like to make it clear that when it comes to the proposal for this decision and what I am about to say to the team, it has nothing to do with the relationship, my relationship with the United States, because we all, in the end, well know that the United States is our friend about that their merits for BiH's survival are immeasurable. I also personally find it very positive and important that the institutions of the BiH state have come to decide on property that is by nature state-owned and which is also for us, although this one, these answers by the ladies are not exactly encouraging, but I still want to believe that behind us there will be a phase when the incompetent bodies of the institution have had, decided, sold what constitutes state property. I also want to say that you all respected colleagues, like me, have received a request from 30 NGOs in which representatives of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH are calling for us to vote against the decision in question on the sale of 44 thousand 175 square meters of former Military Marshal Tito. Of course, as far as I'm concerned, I took this appeal seriously and in any case answered the questions that will be given to this debate, and it will define me in which direction I will therefore plead at the end when we decide on it. Even if a call from NGOs had not been made, I personally would not have made it easy to give my vote for a decision that we should plead today for several reasons. 26 First, I believe that the overall procedure around the part of Maršalka although the lady claims that everything is okay, in my opinion it should look different and must have a certain legal basis in the sense that it is necessary to pass a law which, therefore, would be a regulated question of the availability of a decision, etc. about a property called state property. It is particularly important to complete this property, to see how depending on the part of the territory or part of BiH on which it was, what practice it was, to see on the basis of therefore a general commitment that what was once owned by the State of SFRY or the Federal Secretariat of People's Defence, to see that logic and to bring that property into the same position as whether. And that our relationship is the same and we representatives at the state level by nature of things have an obligation to advocate such solutions that will be equally applicable to every inch of BiH. I also think, when it comes to this solution to the US Embassy's location, that in the area of our city, our capital, Sarajevo, there are more better solutions to finding a suitable location. Also, the third reason would be the fact that this conclusion warned by a respected counterpart Filipović, and the decision is not in line, is not in line. In other words, what is stated in the conclusion, and as mentioned in recital 2 above, that the decision will set out the way in which the funds will be spent, are not precisely specified in the decision itself. So there is a discrepancy between the Council of Ministers' conclusion and the proposed decision. Of course, I mean, there are certain solutions here in this direction. I suppose that, at the end of the debate, this House, or each one of us, will take its stand, respecting the fact that we now have one solution that offers a way out, i.e. making a practical agreement between these two acts of the same author, so the Council of Ministers, but thus brings us into a new position, given that, on a proposal from the Council of Ministers, the House of Representatives has made an appropriate decision, and then it will be necessary to implement the appropriate business procedure. In any case, I would be much easier to identify myself to support the proposal for this decision to sell the immovable property delivered to us by the Council of Ministers if I received acceptable answers. Here, and I will ask some questions as well as the esteemed colleague Čengić, in the context of my discussion, I will ask some questions which I have asked as a member of the Constitutional-Law Commission and precisely because of the lack of answers to these questions, almost completely missing answers to these questions, I have chosen to be abstentioned at the session of the Constitutional-Legal Commission. Why, therefore, my first question, why not wait for the adoption of a special law that will regulate the issues of status, the means of availability, the relevance of the procedure and the decision on the fate of state property? So why didn't this question be resolved, this particular issue of sales, I respect this attitude that it can, but it can also be done through the tender. You have to answer why it's like this, and it's not like that because both are within the law. And is the price of 290 marks, some say that when BiH's specific obligations are recalculated, it is economically optimal per square metre? Then what are BiH's obligations in terms of the preparation of the ground, and will the price of the sale be less realistic? In which 27 money will be spent by selling the property in question, we will need to identify ourselves, and given the appropriate solution that came from Mr Jukić in this apartment. Then, what is the fate of the 2000 Master Plan, which is foreseen at the site of Marshallka's construction of the University campus? Then, what will happen is that because of the inappropriate, in my conviction of the inappropriate location of the future United States Embassy in the heart of Sarajevo, this embassy is hampered by traffic from three streets and if the world's first power of the modern world, for the safety of its facility and person in the future requires, for example, the dislocation of the train station, bus stations, a whole series of other institutions, and that I'm not talking about the Campus himself who, and it would be good to hear the answer to the question whether or not to stay in it, and then of course I can form my own position on it. There's no dilemma here, you can ask a whole series of other questions here. I have defined myself for those who, for me, are this one, who seem to me to answer these questions, would personally help me to plead on this matter and, of course, I will, on the basis of the views expressed in this debate, based on the answers that I assume will follow and define this, therefore, according to my personal assessment in relation to this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4106	I thank Mr. Limov. Who else wants to take part in the debate? Here, there were some questions, so if there's anyone else to discuss, then let's go,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4107	...questions and dilemmas I may have an answer to.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4108	Okay, Mr. Čengić, here's Mrs. Miletić to explain, so we'll continue the debate. These questions Mr. Limov has referred, which, of course, are in jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4109	First question asked by the honourable Mr Lim, I will answer. Why don't you wait for the law to be passed? I'm not competent to answer this question. I said that BiH's Attorney General is acting, protecting the interests of state property, so at the request of his parties, therefore, I could reciprocate you, why you haven't passed such a law so far, and that we will implement the Attorney General. As for the traffic of immovableity, directly by contract. In accordance with Article 16. The immovableity law is prescribed to be trafficable, to carry out immovable traffic and to other socio-legislators, to legal work with compensation and without compensation, which means that the state can transfer its property to another legal person, with or without compensation from the conclusion of the legal transaction. I have to say, if we haven't closed the legal deal yet, actually legal business, we haven't concluded the contract after the 28 of these decisions go to the conclusion of the contract, which will regulate everything. The rights and obligations of the Contracting Parties, in particular the rights and obligations of the BiH state and the rights and obligations of the United States' buyer. As regards the purchase price, which is established. The purchase price was determined by the relevant house, which is the Office for the Construction of Canton of Sarajevo. The price includes land editing, it is all presented nicely in the Memorandum delivered to you, or the Parlemntar Assembly, and the Council of Ministers adopted such a decision, or adopted that assessment from the relevant house, the Building Office. What else was there? I must say, Canton Sarajevo has made a regulatory plan for that site. The regulation plan envisions the construction of a U.S. Embassy building, in line with the regulation plan. As far as the Regulatory Plan is concerned, I can't present it, these are the relevant factors, this Canton of Sarajevo, specifically the Ministry of Urbanism. That's it, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4110	Okay, thank you, ma'am. Mr. Hasan Čengić, Mr. brkati. Mr. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4111	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected present, here today should bring an end to the work that has been going on clearly, slightly said for the last 8 to 9 years. A job involving a significant number of BiH institutions and individuals, and even outside BiH, and a job that is extremely important for diplomatic relations, continues to develop international relations with BiH but at the same time extremely important for the development of higher education of science, research, etc. I would like to say that I belong to those who believe that the US position towards BiH and our policy towards the United States is of particular importance and particular importance. And I stress that the role of the United States in stopping the war in the Dayton negotiations that led to peace, in establishing peace after these negotiations, in establishing aid in return, stabilising the situation in BiH and the region, developing BiH institutions, developing democracy in BiH and Euro-Atlantic integration was unimaginable without positive, extremely positive and factually decisive roles of the United States. In that sense, I am convinced that I share the views of the commitment of the people present here in the House, that further development of such relations is a positive, necessary condition for BiH in the future, both from the point of view of stability and from the further development and strengthening of BiH institutions and also from the international reputation of BiH. In order for this to happen, it is not only enough that we are in the mood for such relations between the United States or the US Government and Congress and other US institutions, that 29 are in the mood for BiH, but obviously it is necessary and to resolve certain technical conditions, and one of the first is certainly a permanent and final issue of US diplomatic accommodation in BiH. The embassy space. I was personally involved in the search for, or the talks for the premises of some embassies, and I know well that it was a painful job in this city of Sarajevo. I'm talking about some cases after the war. And, as I recall, none of those cases that I've been familiar with, or that I've been familiar with, maybe '98-7, etc. It hasn't been solved yet. This, therefore, does not contribute to the efficiency of our institutions, both cantonal ones, which are normally responsible for urbanism and these types of permits and consent in space, across the city of Sarajevo and state institutions. Of course, there are also real problems, such as the geographical location of Sarajevo, its urban definition, boredom, etc. But on the other hand, I dare say that there was a certain kind of indecision, inertness, waiting for someone else to solve the problem, etc. According to what was available to us, perhaps more in the public than in the official materials that we have on this agenda, we know that there have been proposals for more locations for the US Embassy and that, after various discussions, a certain institution of Canton has proposed and suggested this location. I have to admit that regardless of their likely good intentions, I don't think they've done a very good job. In particular, I don't think they did a very good job, given that these same canton institutions also had a question from the University of Sarajevo, a location for facilities, or a campus of the University of Sarajevo. So there is no dilemma that it is extremely important to resolve the final issue of location and accommodation of the US Embassy but it is also very important to resolve the issue of Campus University in Sarajevo. The need for this final solution to Campus University is also something that must be the subject of the decisions of the cantonal authorities involved in the preparation process and this decision. And we now have the task of trying to solve two important issues. Both, it seems to me that we agree in general that they are important, that they need to be solved and that they need to be solved in space, in the urban area of the city of Sarajevo. And now we have the situation that as a final proposal from the competent institutions in Canton of Sarajevo, the solution has come that part of the space intended for the campus of the Sarajevo University or the University of Sarajevo is given for the construction of the American Embassy. First, in a technical sense, it's not a very small space, it's a significant space. According to some estimates, maybe more than 20% of the total space. Secondly, it is interesting that it is located in such a part of the city, where some other very important communication traffic facilities or facilities were located that were spoken of by a respected colleague of Limov. And we have a situation that, in fact, we are doing something that is not common in a democratic world, not to say that it is generally incompatible, that, in fact, in the space of Campus University, we locate the diplomatic representation of a foreign country. It is well known that the diplomatic representation of each foreign country has very diverse activities, colourful activities and that certainly these activities do not always have to be 30 compatible with the objectives, purposes and activities of the university. As a rule, democracy is known to e.g. uniformed officers, soldiers, protection services, etc. They don't enter the space of the university in uniforms. Even if their members are students of that university. These are the usual, minimum standards of respect so-called. The independence of the university. We have a situation today where we are discussing the establishment of such an institution as the embassy in the Campus area. Now we are going to separate some of that space from the standards that are again, from the government and embassy's point of view particularly rigorous, safe with understanding and for a reason, which again in some way affect even the technical solutions of Campus itself and certain restrictions in terms of the development of Campus. On the other hand, we heard questions about the communication traffic arrangements, so with regard to security or security, so on communication, etc., at the very center, I can tell the epicenter of the city of Sarajevo, the points from which Sarajevo is developing in various directions. Now let me say one more detail. I personally played a part in the process we're talking about. Dear Mrs Miletić mentioned that the BiH government made a decision in May, if I have noted correctly, in '96 that the right to use, rather than the right to dispose, is being transferred to Sarajevo University. Before the BiH government made such a decision, I personally as Deputy Defence Minister of the Federation signed a document calling on the BiH government to make a final decision on the purpose of the camp, because the defence ministry's decision was to finally initiate and implement the demilitarisation of the city of Sarajevo, after a hundred years of the existence of military barracks, various empires, states, forces, half-force, powers all of which used the same space for the accommodation of soldiers, weapons, military equipment. So, for militarizing the city of Sarajevo, the Ministry of Defence, my signature in '96. has confirmed that more the city of Sarajevo does not need such an institution as the military barracks and that the military barracks should, instead, be converted into an institution for the needs of higher education, science and research. And in that sense, such a recommendation went to the BiH government. In that sense, I have personally been involved in this process and since '96 until today. Since I had my personal reasons, as well as professional reasons, and felt that there was no longer any reason for such a massive object of military use in Sarajevo, I gave such a recommendation as I gave on behalf of the Ministry of Defence, which was subsequently accepted by the BiH government. I hope it's clear to everyone today that even today I don't see any reason to say that it was a bad decision or a bad proposal to turn former Kasarna space into a campus university. I still think it was a good idea and that this is a good solution, which in another way modernises, dynamics and modernises the city of Sarajevo, and the whole of BiH by giving space to the University of Sarajevo, for further development, modernisation and enriching of the content of the city and state. With all this in mind, I think it is necessary to address the issue of space adequately and satisfactorily the issue of space for the construction of the US Embassy in Sarajevo. And, I think, it is also necessary to continue activities in the construction of Campus for the needs of the University of Sarajevo. Unfortunately, we've been put into a situation where these two good tendencies, two good intentions and two needs, this city and this state, are now facing each other. That's what we have to decide today. 31 Personally, I can't be against any of my attitudes. I was in '91. and '92. and today I felt that the role of the United States in relation to BiH is irreplaceable and special and that it is necessary to do everything possible to develop such relations. Today and in the future, I will think that the Sarajevo University should be a modern, European institution open to all BiH citizens and all citizens of the world who want to co-operate with this university as a modern institution. To conclude, bearing in mind all of this, I particularly support the idea, that is, the Council of Ministers' proposal to alienate this facility, which is owned and sold by the BiH Treaty of property by the Parliamentary Assembly. I think that's very good. I am concerned that for the first time in this house today, we are discussing the issue of the BiH state property that was created as a possession or as an object of BiH's succession on the basis of the International Agreement on Succession, and that we are only talking about this facility. So, let me ask myself, would you talk to me about this if possibly the buyer wasn't the U.S. government, but maybe he was a local buyer? Did we talk and is it true that no other facility, no other property owned by the SSNO until this, by the year '92, had been alienated and sold to date? Is one, and another object sold, any other property sold in such a way as to give consent to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH? Is it possible today, on the same day that we are discussing this issue at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, the Federation Parliament, and its same House of Peoples, to discuss the sale of assets of the former Yugoslav People's Army by the Federation of BiH. That's amazing. It's for Ripli, I have to admit that it's a disaster in which my colleagues from my party unfortunately participate. When I say so, I don't think they're supporting it, but they're taking part in the process. I think this is a serious question that deserves to be asked the right questions. In that sense, despite being in one duality between two contradictory positions, I am particularly glad that we have the opportunity to ask these questions here today. And I hope that from today on, we will begin to discuss them in agreement at the state parliament, or we will address these issues and implement our obligations, resulting from the signing of the Suxie Agreement. With that in mind, I suggest that the following conclusions be adopted. The conclusion that the Council of Ministers will receive money from the sale of these properties, except for part of the money that must be spent on land management, if I understand that it is somewhere of approximately 3 million, means the rest would be about 9 million, to direct that money exclusively for the construction of the Campus of the Sarajevo University. That would be the first conclusion. And the second conclusion is that the Council of Ministers is tasked with making use of BiH's BiH Law Department, and on the basis of the provisions of the Agreement on the Issues of the former SFRY, carry out all the necessary actions to enroll the entire immovable property of the former JNA on BiH territory in the land-marked property of the BiH state. Those legal actions must be taken immediately. 32 So, I believe that we should immediately assign this matter to the Council of Ministers to approach the implementation of its obligations under the Sucession Agreement and bring into the same position all the facilities belonging to the SSNO, before BiH's international recognition, on the entire territory of BiH and to bring the state into a position to be the title over that property so that it can carry out its obligations. If it happens, that the House of Peoples and thus the Federal Parliament, decide on the sale of former JNA property in the Federation of BiH territory by the federal government, I announce that the Bosniak Club will consider the possibility to impose an application to the BiH Constitutional Court for such a decision. We believe that as we have only seriously approached one issue, so the issue of one real estate must be equally and even more seriously approached by the issue of all real estate in the territory of BiH that belonged first to the SSNO and later through the law that is under way and which is being prepared, and all property, all immovable property, real estate and all other property that is the obligation of this state to care and responsibility under the Sluction Agreement. To conclude, I think these questions are very important. I am pleased that today we have the opportunity to talk to the state parliament about these issues and I am convinced that we will find solutions that will allow the US Embassy to be built on one side and that on the other side of the Campus of Sarajevo University to develop into a modern campus, a new and modern infrastructure for the development of higher education, science, research, or for the development of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4112	I thank Mr. Čengić. Mr. brkati, then Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4113	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I can't help but say something about this, although Mr. Čengić said a lot of things, which I'm making out with, I won't repeat it, but I'm going to have three things to say about three things. I think in a very awkward way, the entire procedure for granting this space to the U.S. Embassy is being conducted. The importance and role of the United States is immaterially speaking, and I am absolutely certain that if any BiH citizen were to be asked a question, with which country we should have good relations and what relations should be developed, it would probably be the United States, probably in the first place. So it must be the citizens of BiH who have a unique attitude in this regard and it is nothing, there is no dilemma. However, it is very clumsyly managed by the procedure around the location. It's strategically mishandled. False dilemmas were created whether this, whether or not, played its part in the media and created dissatisfaction in public change, with the first or not, precisely because the procedure was conducted in a diletarian way. 33 I would indeed recommend the most responsible in this country, which such things should lead, to approach this in one more responsible, more professional, subtle way than it was in this case. That's one thing. The second thing, perhaps this case is very minor in relation to the importance of the problem that we've just started talking about here today. I am very sorry and I am disappointed with the attitude of the lady who brought us here that they are an institution which they are, which they should worry about owning BiH, that they say, so we did not get the job well. And by the profession you had the task of asking Parliament to do so, if Parliament or the Council of Ministers didn't do so, I think it was your institution that had to be troubled if we hadn't already, because you're a profession, you know what that means, if I didn't know what it meant. So that's one thing. I think we should ask the Council of Ministers to, under urgent law on these problems and on that property. And, I won't, it's unacceptable to me, it's unacceptable to me that we just know, and so today I got a report here from the lady, about this location, that she's state property. We know there's more, but we don't have anything to do with today. That's unacceptable to me. You know what was owned by an SSNO in '91, that's what you know. It's not from the march of this, they need data to come now so we don't know that data, I guess they have on BiH territory and they just need to be picked up. It's such a simple job. And I really think that in this respect we should have a decisive view of what is going to be done, because we're going to get into a situation like this again, if there's any other customer on the side and anything like that. And I don't think we can go over it, just get over it. And because of that, as much as I was really about it being a single campus, but the needs are the needs, and I think it's illogical if someone in BiH today expected the House of Nations to stop it here, and it went past hundreds and hundreds of very responsible people whose hands went through this procedure all and nobody stopped it, that now someone asks us 15 to stop it here. And it certainly won't come to this, but it's irresponsible to ask, and it's irresponsible of the media to create an atmosphere in public change that it now depends on 15 people sitting here in the House of Peoples, and that all dissatisfaction is on these 15 people and not on those whose hands it's been through so far. I think we should think about it a little bit, what someone consciously does, that the Parliament of this state, which I claim is responsible for doing its job, is making one atmosphere, one image that absolutely has nothing to do with objectivity. And finally, let me say, maybe there's another good thing in this one. Except for what I'm asking us to have the law, which is the most important thing. I hope that we will get the second state property owned by Parliament back, which is the space where the American Embassy is now, that is the property of the BiH Parliament as far as I know. And if this embassy is made, we're going to get that worse space that's ours, which is quite good and thank Bog, we don't have much space in Sarajevo. We keep saying that for various institutions we need space, it's a more representative space, and I think it's one good thing that they're moving out of there and freeing us of that worse space as a state. Thank you. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4114	I thank Mr. Brk. Mr. Limov answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4115	Well, thank you very much. I wanted to ask an additional question. In fact, the esteemed Mrs Miletić said that she was not competent and that she could not respond to what I had set up. I ask you, Mr. President, if there is a competent person from the Council of Ministers who has proposed this and what we are discussing, to answer at least that part of my questions relating to the fact that it is not the conclusion of that Council of Ministers that is incorporated into the decision that we need to make. So, can a representative of the Council of Ministers answer that?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4116	Here's a sign from the bench that he can't right now. Here's the lady who wants to answer some more questions, or later. Here, here, Mr. Radovanović better get the questions going right away, and then we'll go back.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4117	I would, before I answer this question, this finding of the honourable MP, I apologize for the name and last name of this one that he has now asked. I must say, I personally, i.e. the Attorney General, drafted a draft law on state property in the 6th month of 2004, and given that property legal relations have not been resolved, and delivered to the Council of Ministers in the procedure. I have to say, the pravobranilaštvo was agile about protecting state property. We even collect data constantly from land-book offices and cadastrian this office, too. Therefore, we do what we do to protect state property. I have to say it, but when the law is passed, we don't, I don't know or know anyone from the D.A.'s office. It is on the Council of Ministers when they will refer the Bill on State Property to you and it is up to you when you will adopt it. As for the Council of Ministers' conclusion on the decision and on the means, I must say that I have now heard that there is a conclusion that the funds, that Parliament decides to decide both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly, decide on the funds spent. I'm really not, the pravobranilaštvo General is not competent to decide for what purposes and how these funds will be deployed. The only one who can decide on this is the Council of Ministers, for which purposes, and not the D.A. can't decide, really.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4118	Here you go, 35.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4119	I am very glad that you have now reiterated that as BiH's Attorney General you are working to protect state property. I have to admit, I don't want to argue with you. I also have to admit that I don't know exactly what you're doing. But I have two questions for you. First, should BiH's international obligations wait for domestic laws to be applicable on BiH territory or are they applicable on BiH territory at the time when the conditions provided for by this international agreement are met?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4120	Once the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4121	The second question is whether the conditions of the Agreement on Succession have been met and whether the obligations of the BiH state are in force at this time, and thus the BiH Justice Department to protect state property in connection with the Agreement on Succession?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4122	Well, we've taken legal action to protect the agreement. You'll have it in your report.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4123	Let me, if that's the case, then explain to me how it is possible for the federal parliament today to discuss at the House of Peoples that the federal government is selling former JNA assets...
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4124	Well, we'll stay with, with the constitutional suit, looking for an initiative to assess constitutionality and legality, I don't know that the federal parliament is discussing this,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4125	I don't know either, but I found out from today's press,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4126	I don't really know, but if we pass such a law, we'll do it, we'll get up, we'll file this, a lawsuit to the Constitutional Court, that's a law enforcement initiative,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4127	You see, let me, since I'm not a lawyer, to make a mistake, but tell me if one cop is attending an act in which someone wants to commit violence to someone else, is he supposed to let that violence happen, and only then bring in the perpetrator, or should 36 take action to prevent it in advance? So, if you as BiH's Attorney General have an obligation to protect state property on BiH territory, why are you waiting for the law to be passed when the law has been in the process for months. And why didn't you propose today to this home and before a certain time to the House of Representatives to make a decision that I suggested that all assets be prescribed on the basis of a succession, or registered in the ownership of the BiH state? I'm sorry, I'm not accusing you, but I'm asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4128	Please don't give me, I can't give,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4129	All right, Mr. Radovanović volunteered for the debate, please welcome Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4130	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would have one question and the deputy attorney and Mr. Čengić mentioned them several times to the BiH government in '96, which transferred the right to the university. I'm interested, Mr. Čengić, in mentioning several times the '96 government of BiH. I am interested in whether it is the government of the Federation of BiH or the Council of Ministers of BiH. I think it's very important.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4131	I'll answer to an honorary colleague. Apparently, he was a remarkable surgeon at the time without being involved in politics. Following the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, the government of the Republic of BiH, acting as such during the war, continued to function until the November '96 elections, the Republic of BiH, which was in the capacity of the Government of BiH under the Dayton Peace Agreement, was competent to perform those functions until the November '96 elections. The government of the Republic of BiH, that is, then BiH without the Republic, so without it, the government has made such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4132	I thank Mr. Čengić. Who else wants to take part in the debate? Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4133	Since there are no other candidates for discussion, and since we have two proposals actually on the purpose of these funds in front of us, and that the Council of Ministers is asking us, however, to determine the purpose of the funds, of any purchase that we need to make known, I propose a 15-minute break to bring these two proposals into line. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4134	I think this is a constructive proposal, I just don't know if we're going to have any more, and I'd like to say that if anyone else has to discuss it, to finish the debate, actually this part, this round of debate, so that we can go to a consensus, or I agree that we should have a break, to talk about it as much as possible. Before we do this, we decide who else wants to argue? If no one wants to, I'll say a few sentences. Dear fellow MPs, representatives of the Council of Ministers and other BiH institutions, guests, this is a very important topic and it has already been discussed here, in fact by most MPs and indeed the topic is very interesting and very important. Namely, it is two very important users or potential users of one space, Campus University of Sarajevo and the US Embassy. My basic idea, or thought, is that it can happen both if this potential of this space is designed and used in the right way. I have no doubt that the authorities of Canton and the city of Sarajevo have done exactly that and do not speak lightly of these solutions that we have been offered. I am convinced, I am not a lawyer here, nor the Council of Ministers, nor the Assembly, nor do I know the Council, the city of Sarajevo or the Canton of Sarajevo Assembly, but I believe they have made a responsible proposal for these solutions. Mr. Čengić said this problem of location for the SDA embassy was 10 years old. That's right. And it's not just since 10 days ago 15 again topics, so it's a constant topic. Good solutions are needed and there are probably few better solutions than this solution. This isn't ideal. I want to believe that, therefore, in this space, one and another request can be solved in a quality way. There are approximately 20 acres or 100 thousand m2 of very attractive space here. This is not an attractive space anywhere, but in this part of Sarajevo, and it is no wonder that the United States is interested in this as well as in its embassy and... Sarajevo. That's why I don't think we should talk specifically about the role and importance of the United States and here is not the most relevant price, it's not the most important. There are many examples in the world where countries deal with this problem, and the price is not at all important, but agreed. If an adequate solution is found, so is gratis. It's a very common practice. So let's not get caught up here for this price that's as important as that. No, it's not the most important thing. I also believe that this price that's written here is done again, we said how and how. Therefore, responsible in accordance with the rules of the profession on the pricing of such a space, etc. And I'm really not gonna say anything else. I will only mention one more issue of opening other unresolved issues in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the issue of former JNA property. It's a very interesting question, it's a very valuable property, and I think it's a bad approach if we're going to solve it with one conclusion of this home, or by the decision of this home or the other, therefore, the Parliamentary Assembly. I think that this issue should be resolved by one quality law and perhaps given the initiative to really prepare this law to be good and quality, 38 comprehensive and generally applicable and to adopt it as soon as possible, if possible in this term. I'm sure it is. We're missing that and we're missing it, and it's definitely going to solve these other dilemmas whether or not who has the right to dispose of that property. And that's gonna repeat a very valuable asset, a very large asset. Here, I don't think we have the right to decide now without a break, without talking between clubs, because we have here several conflicting suggestions of conclusions. And that's why I think it'll be very useful to have a break from at least 15 minutes to half an hour. I agree, and then we'll keep working, and by then Mr Pamuk wants to.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4135	First, I welcome you, I feel the need to say something at this point about the urban plan of determining the price of space for this campus. Why? Well, because the urban plan and the price of city building land, here's to this job and the project was determined at the time I was governor of Canton of Sarajevo. And I have to say, I'll just tell you some aspects of determining this price. Somewhere in '96, '97. There was one need in Sarajevo for Bosnia and Herzegovina to attract investments and open space to foreign capital to enter Sarajevo. In that sense, whether we've been for many years, i.e. For a long time we talked about one investment, investing in a space called Marin Dvor, this in front of this assembly, and then in that time we contracted this building of Bosmal because we've also attracted investments, we've contracted Terme from Chatez, we've arranged for Riverina. For example, at that time they were something, they came to Sarajevo about a billion marks of investment. In order for this to be settled properly and that this should be correct, the urban plan of the Sarajevo Canton, or Sarajevo, and whether this urban plan has been on the discussion for a full 6 months. Citizens of this city, citizens of Canton of Sarajevo, accepted the urban city at the same time set the price of city building land that moves up to 200 marks per square metre. Maximum. Look, it's not a price, at least when it comes to Sarajevo's huge profits, it's the price that gives an opportunity to attract investment to the Sarajevo area. And I think this, the kasarni Maršal Tito and that part of the quality and very high-quality urbanist solution is solved. The price of construction land in Marin Dvora space is set. That's what's very important and she's such a coffee. The truth is simple. If we could sell this place and so much more expensive. However, the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is next. We have the US Embassy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is one of the first to be placed here. They asked us for space and we gave them space that wasn't suitable for them, but at that point, it was the best thing we could give in Sarajevo. The embassy has settled in, and we've permanently remained in the U.S. Embassy's obligation to find the right space. The truth is, it's been offered 3-4 locations. It's another thing you're offering, but it's very important that someone wants to accept what you're offering them is whether. And there was a solution for the American embassy to be placed on a space that is now the subject of conversation. We did it. If we were 39 there, if we could call that space to give it, to sell it at auction, there would be a lot more to pay for that space much more expensive. However, it would be worth another thing, if we had offered it to the Indian embassy or the Chinese embassy, she would probably have paid it 50 and maybe 100% more. However, our interest was to have the US Embassy in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's one more thing we need to know. It's a state food store. There's one more thing we need to know which is important. The US Embassy is the largest US embassy in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the area of Southeast Europe. That means something to both Bosnia and Herzegovina. Probably means that to the U.S., too. And I think this proposal and what we've done now is not bad, but optimal. I think this is a good solution, and I am begging and I advocate that this solution be adopted and this Parliament adopts it. What is very important is for the Attorney General to tell us that in the process in this process, everything was going according to law. That's very important, because we from these positions and for this time we're not able to totally track whether it's legal. But here's an institution that we've formed to tell us that and people say that this is all legal, that the processes have been going very well and that it's okay. What's important is it hasn't been done yet, it's concluded, isn't it, Dragica? It is, however, in order to conclude that contract, there should be our decision as well. All the institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina have made such a decision, and I think this home will also have the hearing to take this decision and to solve this problem and to solve this situation. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4136	I thank Mr. Pamuk. Can we go now to that proposal we already mentioned here? Yes, it is. So I suggest and determine a half-hour break. So we move on at 16 and 15. Extended, but here. [[PAUZA]] Yes, it is. It was not possible to agree these views before. Mr Filipović, is this a new proposal? It's coming down. Okay. Would you like some sooner? All right, here's a proposal for a new conclusion by Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija reporting for debate, and we're discussing the point of daily work of selling immovableity. Mr. Neimarlia, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4137	Thank you very much. Gentlemen chairman, fellow delegates, guests, I was going to speak as a delegate who requested a break and to sort out the request in some way, the result of this break we had. We'll get to know the result soon as we get a protocol solution, and before that, I'd like to say three things. 40 Namely, I asked for a break so that we could agree on the proposed conclusion or recommendation to the Council of Ministers what to do with the funds that will be received if we decide to make this sale of land we are discussing and the subject I would like to express my personal opinion on, from this, you allow me to treat myself as a debate, as a contribution to the debate on this point that I am sorry for the reasons already pointed out here that we as a country were not in a position for the United States, as a friend of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to offer an appropriate location for their embassy for free of charge. Unfortunately, as a result, at the same time, of course, I am aware that we are in such a situation that we need the funds. Furthermore, I need to say about the reasons for the problem of this sale you have heard and, and quite well, I would say the reasons for almost professional or professional nature that has been presented by the distinguished colleague of Limov when he mentioned the issue of adequateness or the appropriate position of this location, given the security reasons, I therefore need to say that we have experience and believe and the representatives of the United States here on a single security that characterizes however life in this city and one expectation that nothing should be questioned or dynamicized to say so in some unsolicited way that security factor around this location if we make a decision to sell it naturally. And finally about everything that's related to the release of a part of this campus, the exemption of a part that is now available, to the use of actually Sarajevo University and students and the teacher himself in college, I have an additional one, so I had an additional obligation to face it. I am not sure that I have fully calmed my conscience in this matter, but to appease my conscience, it has been influenced by the fact that the United States has been helping students from this country so far, that this aid to students to graduate postgraduate and other studies is indeed such that in this case we still need to respect and I expect it to be so both in the future and in some way I expect, or I call on students of the Sarajevo University to also have vision as a fact that has connected us in a certain way or made it easier, for example, to set aside this purchase. Finally, as far as the proposal is concerned, first of all, which, in front of the club, has practically been presented by counterpart Hasan Čengić in the agreements that we have made and agreed to withdraw the proposed conclusions, first of all the consequences of their lack of legal justification because we have come to a solution which, I really think, has been agreed on legally at the expense of the solution or conclusions that we have drawn, which lacked this full, full legality. And expecting that solution that we're keeping legal with this decision to which we should determine ourselves I expect understanding of this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4138	I thank Mr. Neimarlija. Who else is answering for a hearing? No more reports. 41 Here is the professional service that brings us to the benches a new conclusion. We'll just wait for a very short time to get to know him for a while, even though we know him. So this conclusion would be substantiated in fact by all those proposed conclusions and the proposings give up all their earlier proposals, conclusions. Let's just see if the conclusion is written as agreed. Here, the conclusion is divided. If there is nothing to add to the text of the conclusion, I suggest we say first about the Decision on the sale of immovable property. I'm putting it to the vote. You can vote now. We're voting on a decision to sell real estate. I'm finding the results of the vote. 10 votes for, 2 abstentions, so we have reached a decision on the sale of immovable property as proposed, with this decision to make this decision and the conclusion that we have reached, we have agreed that this conclusion is to be expressed. You can vote on the conclusion. I conclude that with 10 votes and 2 abstentions we have adopted and the conclusion that is made for the stenogram – Decision on the cost of the proceeds of the sale of immovable property referred to in point 1. Decisions on the sale of immovable property are taken by the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers will quickly deliver to the parliamentary procedure a decision on the spending of those funds. Thank you. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4139	At this point in the agenda, if you'll allow me to remind you of your distinguished colleagues, I had another proposal to conclude. I'd like to ask you to come forward with that proposal as well. This is the proposal for a conclusion that has been delivered to the benches, which says – it is required by the Council of Ministers that, through the BiH Law Department, the basis of the provisions of the Agreement on Ex-SFRJ Sucession Issues, all necessary legal actions, which will be prescribed by the entire assets of the former JNA on BiH territory by the land ownership of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That is the conclusion that is intended, suggested, so I ask you to plead, no matter what statement it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4140	Okay. This is the conclusion that was proposed. I'm talking about it, I'm not going to repeat it, I'm just going to say one thing, I think this is a problem that needs to be regulated by law and that should be done as soon as possible, but I didn't go with that proposal, I just said my opinion and attitude. But we have a conclusion. 42 I draw this conclusion to the statement. You can vote on the conclusion proposed by Mr Čengić. The results of the vote. - Five for five against. So the conclusion didn't go through. That would end with this point. We're going to the next item of the agenda, Ad.14. Giving consent to ratifying the European Convention on Extradition I would ask Mr Pamuk to continue to lead the session, I will step out.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4141	The fourteenth point of the Ad.14 agenda. Giving consent to ratifying the European Convention on Extradition Report of the Commission you have received. Here you go. Do we have any objections? We're opening a debate. Yeah. Niko one's answering. We're going to vote. What's that? Who's in favor of adopting this point 14? Vote now. Well, there's three of us. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4142	We'll end up after all four points, because it's the same thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4143	So let's see, a total of 10 for, no one against and no one abstention. So this agenda item 14 was adopted. Therefore, giving consent to ratifying the European Convention on Extradition. That's what we adopted. Thank you very much. The 15th item of the agenda is Ad.15. Giving consent to ratifying the European Convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters Report to the Commission you have. Mr Hasan Čengić has something to say on behalf of the commission. Isn't that right, Hasane? Here you go. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4144	At the 29th session, this committee, as the committee responsible, discussed the issue of this Convention, and I just want to meet the House that I don't know which time we faced a major problem, which is the question of the presentation or presence of the promoters when it comes to such, such international bilateral and multilateral agreements. We have a situation all the time where the official proposing of these agreements is the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina whose representative does not come for reasons that are completely understandable and acceptable to us. In fact, our commission very often wants to know more about these agreements and conventions and to ask questions that most likely cannot be answered from the very text of the Convention but involves participation or inclusion, or membership in commissions that have been working on these agreements. We have a situation for the Council of Ministers to interpret that the proposal to the parliament of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency is that they do not need to appear as a proposing, and people from the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina simply cannot be of sufficient use to provide the necessary explanations, information, etc. so we can make decisions. In this regard, we have made more demands to both the Presidency and the Council of Ministers to agree and ask the Council of Ministers to send its representatives to the Commission. We had a situation that we held this committee, this session of the 29th in three days. All the time with the comings. Every time we put it off because we didn't have any proposing representatives. Today, we have finally decided to make a proposal to the House to give consent to these conventions and deliver to the benches a conclusion in which we propose that now, no longer the Commission, not the College of the House, but the entire House accept a conclusion in which we ask the Council of Ministers to send experts, or people involved in the preparation of these agreements, at a session of this committee, to assist us in the preparation of these agreements, or to negotiate ratifications that know more than what is said in the agreement in order to help us make decisions. In that sense, I ask you to accept this conclusion today and give it to the Council of Ministers and ask the Council of Ministers to send their people to the meetings of this committee in the future. And at the same time, we suggest that you give consent to the ratification of this Convention, which is like this previous convention and this subsequent convention, which includes certain legal actions and activities to the extent that our country wants to participate in joint commitments. What our country does not want to do has the right to rule out either territorially or in terms of jurisdiction. On the other hand, we are definitely increasing the legal standard of Bosnia and Herzegovina and international legal standards when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina's behaviour, but we are also opening up a space for Bosnia and Herzegovina to strengthen its judicial position, the possibility of extradition, the possibility of assistance in criminal cases, etc. which significantly improve the position of the judicial system, improve Bosnia and Herzegovina's legal system and ensure persecution on one side of the prosecution of perpetrators, on the other hand 44 high European standards for procedures that determine facts, i.e. establish possible criminal liability. In that context, I suggest that you give consent to this Convention and give consent to the conclusion, which I think you would like to make a special statement, in order to oblige the Council of Ministers to cooperate better with our commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4145	Thank you very much. Here you have heard the president of the commission. I must now tell my colleagues here that we had one, one written notice from the commission, and in this sense we acted as a College and directed a letter to the Council of Ministers and the President of the State and asked them to be present in this sense both on committees and on Parliament in order to enable MPs to make a better decision on these issues. Here you go, me if there's no one. He's got a Mr. Zno. I'm out of position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of my fellow MPs, just one question. Is this convention really called the European Convention on mutually providing legal assistance on criminal matters? ___________(?) Yeah, I mean at the end of things, certain processes, procedures, even relationships we've turned into things. It's so unanalysable.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4148	Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4149	I'm not a lawyer, I guess Mr. Ilija would explain it better. However, the essence of the conventions is therefore not trial itself, or extradition, or criminal problem, or criminal proceedings. The essence of this Convention is that there is a need for material evidence in some court case, if it is known that there is a witness or expert on the territory of another State that may be of benefit, or there is some kind of documentation, there is therefore material evidence which could be useful for a particular judicial process, to ask for cooperation with that witness expert, or with the competent state authorities of another country to come into possession of these material evidence that would be in the process. 45 For that reason I think our right to use the concept of things. So it's not a question of the criminal problem of a person il group of people, it's not an extradition of an individual or a group of people, it's a question of those additional elements that make up one court process.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4150	Thank you. Here, if there are no more applications for discussion, I suggest we plead and give consent and thereby ratify the European Convention on mutually providing legal assistance in criminal matters or someone is saying things, but let the lecturers say it. Things, though. Okay. We can vote. I thank and realize that we have unanimously reached a decision and agreed to ratify the European Convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. Moving to the 16th point of the Ad.16 agenda. By giving consent to ratifying the European Convention on the Transfer of Procedures in Criminal Matters, we have again the competent commission. Mr. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4151	So, first of all, I don't think it's against me to repeat once again that in fact all these four conventions are Council of Europe conventions and already 30 and several countries have accepted it, and as far as this Convention is concerned, it concerns criminal prosecution towards each one, its criminal law on criminal offences that are considered criminal acts on the territory of the country where it is due to take place. So if there is one in us, the law by which a crime is committed, in another country where we want this case to be prosecuted must also be considered a criminal offence in the law. The whole convention shall be subject to compliance. And it is interesting that both this Convention and other Conventions apply mainly to all acts other than acts considered directly by military discipline. So if someone were to break order, he didn't go into the army, fleed the army, etc. or works that are considered political acts, acts that are politically motivated. In cases of such acts, another country, regardless of having ratified this Convention, has no obligation to cooperate. However, when it comes to acts under the Geneva Convention, no matter how the country individually regulates them, they fall under the jurisdiction of this Convention. Thank you. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4152	I thank Mr. Čengić. The debate is open. Is there a need to report for discussion? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We declare our decision to give consent to the ratification of this Convention. You can vote. I agree that we have unanimously reached a decision and agreed to ratify the European Convention on the Transposal of Criminal Matters Procedure. We're going to the 17th agenda, it's Ad.17. Giving consent to ratifying the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes of Violence, again the competent commission. Is there a need?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4153	Very short. This Convention states that in the event of serious physical injury or health impairment or injury caused by the death of a country in whose territory this has happened, regardless of whether the offence has been prosecuted and brought to an end in the court proceedings, it is mandatory to make compensation, therefore for the loss of earnings due to the cost of burial or the loss of maintenance. It is pointed out here that every country has the right to determine the territory, so territory in the sovereign territory of the country to which this will apply. In other words, it can say that some part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory will not apply this, but the state must indicate which it is. Second, it shall have the right to indicate at least two other reserves in the sense that they do not apply to those works under those conditions, etc. Unfortunately, since we didn't have a proposing representative, we can't tell you if our country has prepared a statement in terms of these reserves. We're assuming it's not, because it's obvious that if you have reserves, you'll immediately be placed with counter-reservers of actually a minor right to co-operate. In any case, this is a very interesting resolution which essentially protects the victim of violence, regardless of whether he is a citizen of the territory of the country in which it happened, a citizen of the territory of any country which is in this Convention or whether he was in the territory of a country that is in the Convention, even if he is not a citizen of one of these, or a citizen of one of those countries. We think that this convention is one of the four that really make up the whole and repairs, namely raising the standards of legal solutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina and international co-operation and we propose that agreement be given. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4154	I thank Mr. Čengić. If there's no record of a hearing, no, I'm calling for a plea to give consent. You can vote. I agree that we have unanimously decided to give consent to ratify the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes of Violence. So here after a set of these points of international conventions, I suggest we make one conclusion that we've all got on the benches, here's what came out of the need and fact actually as a need and the fact that at our sessions we often don't have a proposing representative. I think that this is the least we can do and we need to do it once again and in this way warn those responsible for being more responsible for that obligation so that they can attend committee meetings and, if necessary, give clarifications and answers to the questions asked. Otherwise, we will be able to, or we will be blocked in our work, and I think often the question is whether we are actually doing the right thing if we violate our position to consider some material without a proposing representative, or whether we agree, on behalf of some pragmatism, to decide without the representatives present. I personally think it is necessary to further advocate and ensure the presence of the proposing representatives and then there will be certainly discussions and discussions, and then suggestions and I am sure of better and better quality. Is there any need for this conclusion? If you're not here, I'm inviting you to make a statement about this conclusion. You can vote. I find that we unanimously adopted this conclusion. We're going to the 18th point of the agenda, it's Ad.18. The Special Report of the Ombudsman on Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina concerning complaints from parties related to the work of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the cooperation of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the Ombudsmans for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina We had one reflection, so here is the position at the moment of putting this item of the agenda on today's agenda, today's session and we concluded about the following - that unless there is a relevant representative of the Council of Ministers, we will take this item off today's agenda and wait for the conditions to be met so that we have a relevant representative of the Council of Ministers. 48 We have also a message that this report has been discussed at today's meeting of the Council of Ministers, so that's an additional argument to do as I suggested. I think that's what we should do. Here I am making a statement to this proposal, so today we take this point off the agenda even though we put it on the agenda, but I said here are the reasons why we should take it off. Let's face it, I'm asking you to take her off the agenda. You can vote. I find that we have unanimously decided to point 18. A special report by the Ombusmen for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina is being removed from today's session. Mr. Pamuk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4155	Thank you, dear fellow I, we have in our time had one conclusion that all the materials, that is, all the points of the agenda that are in Parliament, will be removed and removed from the agenda unless the rapporteurs, or competent people from the Council of Ministers, are present before the debate. And then, something happened, so we gave up on it, and I'm asking you to make one such decision again, and let's say and let's announce it to the Council of Ministers to send it in writing that we're going to take off the agenda all points for which we don't have a report from the Council of Ministers, because that's how we strengthen our position, and our decisions will be better quality, and decisions will be better if we have these promoters. We're not going to make vague decisions, we're not going to figure out what that's meant, what it's written, and I'm asking, I'm putting this proposal on the table, I'm asking it to be put to the vote so that we behave in the future.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4156	Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4157	...not working, after which, before we made a statement about this to remove the Special Report from the agenda, and before our statement on the conclusion proposed by Mr Čengić. So one compatible conclusion is that it stems from his thinking that here we often need explanations on both the competent committees and the House compared to the presence of therefore authorised applicants of certain documents. But there is one other thing, we are very often in a situation to read in the reasons of our acts that come from the Council of Ministers that in the reasons we are calling for charters, declarations, recommendations, directives, etc. And today, we have adopted some laws that are abound with the proposals of certain international acts to which they are called, so they call on the proposings and elaborate all these fundamentally, the whole essence of the law on, relying on 49 provisions and international legal norms that are part of our legal norms of the domestic ones, because we have accepted them as such in this form or that form, and we have never seen them, we have never delivered them. I would like to propose one conclusion which would oblige the Council of Ministers to, in addition to the proposals for acts delivered in the parliamentary procedure, and in the light of these acts, call for provisions of certain international legal acts to be submitted to Parliament, so that the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina is obliged to deliver and translate the acts to which it is called. We are today, so this is a proposal for a conclusion. So today we passed the Law of Post Office, two directives are mentioned there, one in '97. the second Directive of 2002 amending certain provisions of that Directive of '97. Maybe someone noticed, I didn't want to support that law, I didn't want to because those directives that they didn't deliver are the opposite of certain provisions in that law that we have adopted today are those directives they are referring to. So in order not to be fooled by such things in the future, I ask you in good interest to understand the proposal of this conclusion that this conclusion will be reached today and sent to the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4158	I thank Mr Filipović. It's not about that, but I'm a little consulting our Rules of Procedure, so Article 47 that regulates this issue. I don't know if it's as detailed as Mr Filipović suggests, and besides this, he also speaks of the unique rules for making legal regulations that we adopted before, at our last session it was. Let me tell this subject a little bit, here's my thinking. I agree fully with the gentleman, however, perhaps to ease this part so that, at the request of the MPs, they are required to provide all these international documents translated into domestic language or to make them bound to deliver all these. I fear that sometimes there will be a lot of things, so that, at the request of the MPs, they are obliged to provide all these materials translated into domestic languages. Would it be possible?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4159	I apologize, for certain acts in the parliamentary procedure, there are also calls in one of these laws to eight international legal acts. I asked the rest of the department. That's where the Justice Department did it. I got it today. They always have it, translation exists or download it... from the Hrvat or has a translation directorate, but they don't have they'll deliver it to us. I would like, indeed, any act called for in the explanation of any proposal, as the Council of Ministers is the most frequent proposer, to deliver it with material. For me as chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, it is extremely necessary, useful to prepare and conduct a high-quality session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and a valid decision not to drop 50 decisions here at the House. They've never fallen before, so I'd like to finish my term of office and make sure our commission doesn't make a decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4160	Okay. We have a proposal for two conclusions. He's the first of Mr. Pamuk. I'll do it again. You know that conclusion. We've already made one occasion, but now it should be strengthened to re-engage, to ensure the mandatory presence of... the committee's representatives at the committee's meetings and at the House's sessions. It's regulated by the Rules of Procedure. I agree, however, that the representatives of the proposings do not stick to those obligations that we have regulated by our act.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4161	... Rules of Procedure, let us remove from the agenda materials that we do not have relevant representatives on the commission and on the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4162	Here is the issue regulated in Article 139 explicitly states that they are required to participate, so I think we can resolve this in a way that we are in principle implementing our position not to consider these materials without presence, says the article that can be removed from the agenda, so that's our right. Mr Pamuk, can we go in there, so we can just apply our rules of procedure, it says it all. Mr Filipović's proposal, therefore, to be delivered to us all, a translation of all international agreements and acts, which is sometimes called upon by the legislator, which is very important. I suggest we make this clear. You're welcome to vote. I find that we unanimously adopted the proposed conclusion. We're going to the 19th agenda. Ad.19. a) Information on all current and future missions of members of the BiH Armed Forces, with a report from the Joint Defence and Security Policy Committee, therefore, we are receiving information. If there's any comment or supplementation or initiative. The competent commission has no need. Here you go, Mr. Pajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4163	Gentlemen chairman, fellow delegates, honored guests, well, here's something similar going on with the previous information. When's the proposer? It says here the Ministry of Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina made up this information, which was protocold on 10.11.2004 and, now, information as information. We clearly accept 51 is to know, but we can do a little bit of commenting on it anyway when it comes before us. So, on 10.11.2004, here's the information we discuss at the end of February. This home received information 26.1. o.g. 2005. And now there's information as information. I'd ask certain questions, I don't know if I'm interested in them as a delegate who receives this information. I don't know Mr. Šiljegović may be able to answer or you as chairman, but perhaps the most competent would be someone from the Ministry of Defence who wrote this information, but unfortunately there is no representative of the Ministry of Defence. Well, here, I'm going to ask a few questions briefly, and I'm going to say why I'm asking these questions. On page 1 of the report, point 1 of Article 2, the second, the Democratic Republic of the Congo UN mission, etc. I am ready to shift five military observers for the next cycle in November 2004, so I am interested in whether the shift is realised or not. The second thing, on the aged 5th, is the point of the 4.5th activity of the Ministry of Defense, and the position 2. When we talk about unit training, the U.S. training team is scheduled to be available to the task force, which is to be directed to Iraq to destroy unexploded means of killing, and it says that the unit should be trained by, could begin in November 2004, to start in November and end within three months. Well, I'm also curious, let's say, did that training begin at this time as it was written here or not? I have one more question, let's say, which is what I'm interested in, and I'll say again why I'm interested. We adopted today the Law on the participation of members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces, police officers, etc. not to quote it in full and in Article 3.b. That law stands, I think you've read it, but it's not a waste to repeat it. The Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is obliged to consider decisions of the BiH presidency, the participation of members of the BiH Armed Forces, police officers, civil servants, etc. in peace support operations within 60 days of the decision-making day. It is clear that the decision is made by the Presidency and the complete procedure that goes. Eh, now I'm interested again, since this unit, which is scheduled for deployment to Iraq, for the destruction of unexploded killings, is still in progress. We don't know if this training has been done, we don't know many things, so I'm wondering if since we passed this law today, will the Parliamentary Assembly, of course, this House, in accordance with Article 3 b of this law, consider the Presidency's decision to send this unit to a peacekeeping mission in Iraq? And why am I asking that question? Well, here's my point of view, my opinion. You know that for several months now there's been controversy in public etc. about the justification or lack of justification for the participation of this unit in Iraq, of course, I voted in favour of the Law and it is necessary that part of BiH's armed forces participate in peacekeeping missions, because people in BiH, who helped us establish peace, etc. But I have my own attitude on the matter. This so far, in this report, our participating members have participated in UN maritime missions. And what is predicted to send this unit to Iraq is not under the auspices of the UN, but it is under the command of coalition forces, which have conducted military interventions on Iraq. So from this, it seems to me that it's not under the auspices of the UN. And, I am against sending members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's armed forces out of mission, past the UN mission, no matter what justification there is that part of BiH participates in peacekeeping missions, especially that it has protected me that this unit was intended to destroy unexploded killings, and we know that in the course of military intervention on Iraq, I don't know, but I suppose they've also been used warheads, most likely filled with impoverished uranium, as was the case with SRJ intervention, etc. And our people take many risks. I guess. I'm not saying that the United States and the coalition forces of the United States and the United Kingdom have the strength and resources that it is their obligation to destroy these unexploded killings, which they used to intervene on Iraq, not expose our people to some kind of risk. I'm more determined that these peacekeeping missions go to the sanity units, which would provide assistance in the care of injured, injured, wounded and some engineering units, which would restore roads, bridges, destroyed buildings, etc. So why did I ask that question, because I have my own opinion on it. Whether this assembly will discuss the Presidency's decision to participate members of the armed forces, this mission that is scheduled to be sent to Iraq. Well, that's some of my observations, my questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4164	I thank Mr. Pajić. It's certainly a very interesting topic and it's current and I think it would be good if we had a representative here. However, during today's session here, he was a representative of the motionor in the person of Madam Deputy Minister, but I don't know for what reasons he had strayed away, so I guess they left, but that doesn't justify them all one thing, but, still, I have to say if they were, but now that the point is up, they're gone. I don't know, it's now a dilemma whether to say normally that we've received this knowledge or it would be useful, or more useful, to have a proposing representative here, so that we can ask certain questions. I think this is the current topic, therefore, of a very interesting topic and it would be good if MPs could be further informed about these very important issues. What's to hear your suggestion and then bring this agenda to the table? So, Mr. Čengić wants to talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4165	Just for a little while. We meet again looks like a practice that's common here. I really don't know what we need to do to get into a situation where the Council of Ministers starts working with us. To give power to the opposition. If it had been stronger, we'd have given it to her, but it's weak and it's opposition. So let's find ways and ways to get the Council of Ministers serious to follow their points here. Here, today again, we have a situation on the committee with no proposing representatives, and now regarding the Ombudsmans, there is no one who should have explained what it says in this material. Here, now such a serious question, such as this report, we don't have a proposing representative again. Of course, we can say that we accept knowledge. But is this really the function of this home? Is this the function of the Parliamentary Assembly and, on the other hand, is it true that those working on these issues are 53 so independent of the Parliamentary Assembly that they can really link communication with the Parliamentary Assembly to prepare, send those reports simply that we read them, and they are doing their jobs. I think it would be good, at least to say consistency to myself to ask ourselves to be present to this, so we read, but to leave at the next session and yes, I think it's really time for everyone to start following what they're doing, or here in the House to explain and defend the views of reports and information, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4166	I thank Mr. Čengić. Mr. Limov, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4167	I will, of course, not comment on the opposition, but, I really think it's time we were principled, if we just said to do so, so, to take this down, to invite people, to warn ourselves that they weren't and that's why we took off, and then we'll take a nice look at their presence at one of the next sessions. He did not enter the water, his colleague said this was from the 11th month, but he does need to be asked certain questions, parliamentary relations, and in connection with the implementation of previous missions. There are some questions there, which are not in the report here, but in our public, it is known that the mandates of some participants in missions are being questioned, so at least they answer when it comes to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4168	Mr. Šiljegović, then Mr. Pajić. Mr. Pajić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4169	Well,... the answer to the asked question, I also suggest that this information be downloaded from the agenda, put on the agenda when one of the proponents of this information is present.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4170	In the joint commission of both homes, five people sit here today from this joint commission. On this joint committee, the Joint Parliamentary Commission, today missing Mr Genjac, were three representatives of the Ministry of Defence and I only ask that the Ombudsman's report and information differ. Don't make a circus. Mrs. Marina was here today. The fact that we, people, have a duty, which we have 10 to 15 hours each, six members of this house are sitting on that joint committee. We butchered them on this information. There's classified stuff in there. Me, we're basically, this commission is like a single flow water heater. This is just today, if you don't trust the six of us sitting there, here's Mr. brkati, Mr. Spajić, Mr. Zno, me and Mr. Radovanović, and we now want to bring this to the same level as the Ombudsman's report on human rights. Please, it's not the same. This is an informative character. I ask you to have confidence in the congregation bodies, which is a joint commission of both homes, where our six people, where they were representatives of the resolution ministry 54 of each other, who submitted information to us, and I am not at liberty to give my friend, Đoka, information and answer questions, is the place there. He may have been able to refer through delegate issues to the resolution ministry, and I'm sure they'd get an answer. I'm asking you to accept these two, they're information only. Here's what I'm doing. I'm also affecting these people who were in favor of getting that back. So don't, we're really putting them in a position to sit down for four hours -- five hours on the Defence and Security Commission, and when they give us the information they need, we want them to sit here all day, and we're going to give them ten hours later. Oh, so you don't trust the six people of your colleagues sitting there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4171	Thank you. Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4172	...the chairman of this joint committee and if not for all of our demands, repeated conclusions, of all dissatisfaction with the lack of the presence of authorised proposings, I would understand that. It is not the infidelity of the song to the members of the Joint Commission, nor to you as the interim chairman of the committee. You mentioned and put in the same flat report, special report, it's written under the special circumstances of the Ombudsman and this information. I'd give it equal weight compared to the reasons, which is why we've taken off the agenda a special report. There are no present who can give answers to a representative in this home for certain questions. Let us respect each individual in this house and home as a body in relation to the role we all play here. The right to ask a question has each of us, but also the right to allow each of us to get an answer to that question from the relevant person from the executive authority of this country. That is why I would support the thinking that we are equally dealing with all the materials that we are considering and where there should be the presence of either the proposings or those of the executive authority, who should answer certain parliamentary questions at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4173	Thank you. Mr. brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4174	What Mr. Boško said. I'm just one thing to draw. I work in three committees of parliament, in Administrative, for foreign affairs and in this commission, and I say responsibly, the most responsible people from the ministry are the people of the Ministry of Defense. They are always on our commission from Minister Radovanović and come four or five times further. They're here responsible and today she was the Deputy Minister here, the fact that she was and the fact that she was supposed to be, no matter how Boško we sit. I agree with that Mr Filipović, that she had to wait or someone of hers. However, I cannot bring them into the same plane because, indeed, I believe that they are responsible for the Komisjie's work, indeed, and perhaps because of that I can support Boškovo, but this too we will filipoviti, and if there is no one today to answer the question or any of us, then it is really questionable. Thank you. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4175	Thank you. Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4176	I want to talk to my colleague, Šiljegović. He is also a member of the Constitutional and Legal Committee who has been considering this material that we have downloaded. Therefore, it is not at all the members of the Commission. We took off because there's no ombudsman, I can't answer people. Therefore, the principle should have the same treatment and I support everything that my colleague Filipović said.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4177	They said everything I was going to say a long time ago.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4178	Okay, just suggest how we handle this.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4179	...to my colleagues, Šiljegović. I don't know how he realized that I don't trust the members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I have confidence in my colleagues working there and I know they're working hard and I know they're doing well from all this stuff that I've noticed for the last five months that I've been in this home. Indeed, this commission works both well and responsibly and works a lot. Therefore, it is not a matter of mistrust with the members of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, but of the principle that we have discussed at one of the previous sessions on the previous agenda. Therefore, it is principled, and it is not a matter of mistrust with the members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4180	Okay. Thank you. As there were two suggestions, I'll give both of them a statement. So the first proposal is, it always has an advantage, and that's to take this information to the knowledge, and the second one will be to postpone this. So, first of all, I am giving a statement to the motion for a decision to take to the knowledge of this information. I'm putting it to the vote. You can vote. I'm realizing this proposal didn't go away. So we shouldn't vote on another vote, because it was the opposite, so we take this off and we put it on the agenda, or we warn the proposing's representative to appear at the session. 56 With this, today's agenda is exhausted. I thank you all for your participation and constructive work. Thank you, everyone. We'll make a deal for the new session.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4181	And an off-the-book question. Let's ask Mr. Jukić, when will the Rules of Procedure on the work of Parliament be completed?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4182	Mr. Zno wants to.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4183	...in my county in a month's time there's no paper in the building as long as there is today in front of these MPs and it says sin and shame, if this paper ends up on this junkyard, it practically means the dump.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4184	...proposed you to get so many... you three times get materials.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4185	It doesn't matter, but I'm talking about the other one, the usefulness of this material.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-22-0.u4186	There's only one information about the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure, as I have information, have been on lecture work for two and a half months. I'm powerless here. The seat is closed at 18.20 hours.
