ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17425	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am opening the 55th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I find that the 55th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has a quorum. Before the intonation of the national anthem in the O.R. were 34 MPs, here I see the hall still filling. I'm following, calling for services to keep track of the exact and precise number of present. In any case, we have conditions for full-time work and decision-making. I welcome you once again, I welcome all guests, I welcome the members and representatives of the Council of Ministers, I welcome the representatives of the international community and everyone else present here in this room. Dear colleagues and colleagues from today's session announced MPs: Momčilo Novaković and Muhamed Altić for health reasons. You've got the agenda of today's session. Compared to what you get, there are no changes and additions to the agenda. We held a session of the College this morning, then a session of the Colleges in an extended composition, and after those sessions the agenda remained the same as you received from the 18th agenda of today's 55th session. This morning, at the meeting of the College, as well as at the session of the Extended College, we also discussed this issue concerning the completion of the vacant seat of members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency of the Croatian people and at the session of the Extended College, we concluded that the next session of the House of Representatives will be held in the next two weeks. It's days, or 25. It's either May 4th or May 5th. Depending on when authorised proposings are in a position to deliver proposals. So we are informed at the Club this morning, i.e. at a session of the Expansive College, the College in an extended composition by political parties who are qualified to offer candidates for members of the Croatian People's Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this session will therefore be either within the next week, or within the week after that week. So, no later than two weeks from today, this issue should be resolved, according to what we heard this morning at the Expansive College session and how it practically concluded the Extended College. Here, this is what I have as information for you, I, meanwhile, have also received a motion for a resolution on anti-fascism that they have filed and this morning it has been submitted to you to the benches here by Zaltko Lagumdžija, Jozo Križanović and Selim Bešlagić, and we will act naturally by the procedures prescribed by our rules of procedure when this proposal is also concerned. I have therefore informed you of all that preceded the beginning of this session, so on the session of the College and the session of the Colleges in the extended composition. However, regardless of all this, you have the right to discuss the agenda and I am now opening a debate on the agenda. Here you go. Mr. Mladen Potočnik is asking for a word. Here you go, Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17426	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, delaying the election of members of the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the ranks of the Croatian people is both the responsibility and this parliament because we choose this member from the ranks of this parliament. We know that the situation in the country is not arranged, we know that soldiers do not take the oath properly and I believe that this parliament must take responsibility, because so far it has mostly done so, and it represents both Bosnia and Herzegovina and if it is necessary to take a break, but let the candidate for the BiH presidency be proposed. If you think no one will give it, I'll give it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17427	What is your concrete proposal, Mr. Potočnik?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17428	My concrete proposal for Mrs. Ruža Sopta to be proposed in front of this parliament for a member of the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the order of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17429	You should suggest a agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17430	I propose a agenda point and I make a concrete proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17431	Please, Mr Potočnik, according to the Law to fill the vacant seat of the members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency, according to Article 3, it is said this way – any political party represented in the House of Representatives may propose one candidate who meets the conditions laid down in Article 2 of this Act. Therefore, a member of the House of Representatives who has been elected as an independent candidate and who also meets the requirements of this law may be a candidate. So from this first formulation of this, it's the right to propose names, belongs to political parties. You can propose a item of the agenda and you can declare it, and the right to propose candidates belongs to political parties. This is what the Law says about filling the vacant seat of a member of the Bureau. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17432	No, the law allows any MP or representative to propose.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17433	I ask the Secretary of the House to come out for a pay phone and read this provision of Article 3. The law once again gives an interpretation. Just a little bit, please. You sit down, sir. We're not having a dialogue, you and I. Now we answer to you, and we'll move on. Please. So he will be respected with the greatest respect for both the Rules of Procedure and the Law. So there's no dilemma about it. That's the only thing we're gonna lean on in this situation. The Constitution, the Law and the Rules of Procedure. Nothing else. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17434	Dear members of the College of the House, honourable MPs, MPs, I would like to warn you of the provision of Article 3. The law on filling the vacant seat of the BiH presidency member, which was published in BiH's Official Messenger No. 21 of 2000. He is indeed very precise, in article 3. Decidently says – Every political party, meaning I am talking about political parties represented in the House of Representatives, can propose one candidate who meets the conditions set out in Article 2 of this Law. A member of the House of Representatives who has been elected as an independent candidate and who also fulfils the conditions set out in Article 2 of this Law may be a candidate for the vacancy of a member of the Bureau. So here we need to distinguish between the political party's right to propose personality and political party's right to propose a candidate who can also be an independent candidate. In this case, I'm sorry and can't be a candidate's proposal, you can suggest in accordance with Article 51. Rules of Procedure of the agenda. I think that's enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17435	I thank the secretary. This is an interpretation by the College, this is an interpretation by the College. I already said that in advance. We have, of course, examined every point, every point and every letter of this law because this is a very serious situation and it does not allow any improvisation and any actions beyond what we have written as a positive right at this point in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Whoever has it, if Mr. Potočnik has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17436	You have just said because of the seriousness of the situation, I suggest that party representatives sit down and propose candidates, i.e. by law, I have the right to ask for a item of the agenda - the election, or the completion of a member of the Croatian People's Presidency. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17437	Mr. Potočnik, you have the right to do so, and we will put your proposal on the line. So you have the right to suggest the agenda point. The secretary explained that. We'll put it to a vote, but of course you don't have the right under the law to point out the names, or to run for candidates, and that thing is an explanation both by this Secretary of the House and by the College. Let's move on. Who has any new proposals on the agenda? Here you go. Mr. Beriz Belkić. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17438	Of course, in the context of the agenda more specifically on Mr Potočnik's proposal, the Party for BiH will not in this way support the introduction of this point into the agenda, but I would like to say that the Party for BiH absolutely considers the necessary and important completion of the Bureau members. We at the College this morning reached a certain deal and made certain things clear. So, for the sake of the public absolutely no one, I'm guessing there's no access that you don't need to urgently fill in a member of the presidency. But the way we'd do it today is really below the level of the institution we're talking about. So here we propose to Ruža Sopta that absolutely doesn't have it here, etc. Mr. Potočnik, you could have, in front of the Republican party you belong to on time, suggested a candidate. I guess. It's not a parliamentary party, I apologize, I apologize. Or eventually excavate some of the parties to do it. We can't do this. I agree with everyone that a member of the Bureau needs to be filled in, but the way we're trying to do it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17439	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think there is no need, and Mr. Vinko Zorić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17440	I thank and only join Belkic's words that this is an important issue to resolve it quickly, and I think it is too important that Bosnia and Herzegovina has the presidency and that it will have how the Extended College has agreed and I think it will be very soon. What I have to do in front of the club and without any politicizing, I'd like this home to be declared, we're like the club has a request to the College to hold a plenary session. I'd love to, but the College didn't accept it, and I'd like Dom to make a statement about it. And here's my proposal for the House to make a statement about holding a plenary session on the subject, as it says in the letter to the College. Because that is what the Rules of Procedure states in Article 20(2) that unless the College accepts that the House can be declared. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17441	Yes, thank you. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? Thank you, Mr. Zorić. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I conclude the debate on the agenda and so I can repeat what I have already said on several occasions, this college has had an initiative, so when it comes to the issue of full members of the BiH presidency from the very beginning of the last session, and here is the initiative today, and even at the invitation you received today, you have seen one note. This relates to how we treat this matter as an important issue and strive to be as responsible as possible in this situation. The issue of a joint session of both houses of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to discuss, at the request of the HDZ presidency, and regarding the High Representative's decision was also on the agenda of the College. The College has not reached agreement to hold such a session and the HDZ Club has the right to seek the House's statement on the matter. But after that session, we also held a session of the College in the extended composition and agreed at that session that the House session with the topic – the selection of members of the Bureau, so the full space will be held either next week or 4 or 5 May. So, finally, May 5th, this question has to end. And the political parties that are referenced to the candidates, here above all I think of the HDZ which has 5 candidates, 5 MPs in fact of the 7th total number of representatives from the Croatian people in this House have taken the obligation, the HDZ Club commitment and responsibility, so by these dates the name of members of the Presidency is running. I'm obliged to tell you this, that you also have these facts in mind. I'll put Mr. Potočnik's proposal to the vote. I would ask Mr. VInko Zorić, if he can, given this agreement at the Extended College to give up the proposal, but if he doesn't give up, we'll put him to the vote. To the vote, right? All right. We'll put both proposals to a vote. Please, the debate is closed. These are the clarifications. Prepare yourself, I call on the House to declare who it is to respect the proposal of a distinguished colleague, Mladen Potočnik, and to include the item of the agenda in today's session – the complete seat of members of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the ranks of the Croatian people. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - Four for, 25 against, seven abstentions. I'm guessing the proposal didn't get the necessary majority. We move to a statement on the HDZ Club's request that this House initiates a plenary session of both the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly, which would discuss the decisions of the High Representative, the conclusions of the HDZ which involve and discuss the decisions of the High Representative. I invite you to prepare for the vote. This is, uh, we're in the voting phase, Mr. Jovanović, here you go. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17442	Well, I have to admit, I didn't understand enough the HDZ initiative. If we're going to conduct a debate means the shifts of all the people from the High Representative, meaning from Nikola poplašiti who was first replaced to Mr. Čolak, I accept that, Čović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17443	Please, nice.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17444	Then the SDS MPs' club will accept the initiative, but it means if it's only concrete about Mr. Čović, then they wouldn't accept it. So, but the general debate would be accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17445	Okay. I think I've made myself clear. So I've been clear enough. The HDZ Club asked the College for a plenary session of both homes. The college thinks most of the votes, if I may have your attention, there's no need to hold such a session. It is my view that the role of Parliament, its legal obligation, is to complete the vacancy, not to discuss the decisions of the High Representative. I've said it a few times already. So we don't agree with the College on that. So the thing is, I didn't get the HDZ conclusions, but this is based on this latest case related to Mr Dragan Čović. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija, we can't be a problem at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17446	Mr. Chairman, I just want to remind you that when you've already put that in place, you've introduced a procedure to work towards this HDZ request, it's not at all questionable for us to talk about it. However, it is controversial for us to discuss this unless we put it in a broader context that is much more important. And the wider context already exists, and unfortunately this broader context is spreading through the procedure of parliamentary and that is the resolution that we have offered in which we have asked the House of Representatives to be shown about the role of the High Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the time ahead. And it's perfectly natural to discuss his role in the future. It will depend, among other things, on our assessment of what has been done so far and on the situation in which we are. We also suggested in the resolution that on the basis of such discussions, the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in line with their constitutional powers, play an active role in transforming the role of the High Representative over which major international debates are being held, and in our country, there are no serious political debates. 7 So, I would ask Mr. Chairman, if you are already putting this on, this HDZ proposal to put it in a broader context, and I call on you to conclude that we put this resolution on the agenda as soon as possible, so that, if we call on both the Presidency and the Foreign Minister and the Chairman of the Council of Ministers to address us and to prepare for that session of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institution's agenda, which are responsible for leading the appropriate policy and implementing the appropriate policy to prepare these meetings here. Is that through the board of directors.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17447	She's already scheduled a committee hearing.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17448	Please don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17449	The Commission has already had this debate that no one from the SDP has been invited to. I mean, but it's now we accept Mr. Raguž that it's a technical problem that you forgot about SDP. But, okay, now. I mean, that's why I'd ask and support your proposal to talk about it, but I'm against talking the way you say, looking, and that's just to talk about a specific case. We're not on a specific case, because a specific case has been solved. The second thing is that SDS is conjecturing some things now.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17450	Please nice, so we are, please nice I invite you, so here are the things, we can open up the debate for another hour now, no problem is, and this is a business obligation, please, please, please, I ask you to refrain if you can therefore get out of this situation, if you can not report further for the word. But here I see she insists on it. So this is a business obligation. We had it at the College this morning. The questions raised by Mr Lagudmžij are questions from the resolution and it will come to the agenda here by procedure and there will be no difficulty in the procedure. The Committee on Foreign Policy of this House has had it on its agenda and has it on its agenda and will have it on its agenda and will immediately come into parliamentary procedure and that will, of course, be the point of the agenda of this house. Here is simply the request of the HDZ Club, after the College has not accepted their request to declare it to the House and we are obliged to put it on the plea under the Rules of Procedure. I beg you, here's Mr. Beriz Belkić and Mr. Sead Avdić asking for a word. If you continue to insist, go ahead. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17451	Mr. Chairman, you may have missed the House of Representatives to convey the essence and spirit of the debate that we had on the occasion of HDZ's request to include the agenda item, i.e. holding a plenary session. It is true that we have discussed, that is, that there is an earlier initiative of resolutions, that is, the SDP's request, but it is also true that we have discussed a broader, even wider context than this is what Mr Lagumdžija is talking about both Mr Miloš Jovanović and Mr Zorić. We think from the Party for BiH Club, I told you today at the Enlarged College that a plenary debate should be organised on the overall situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, not only from the position of the High Representative, but from the institutions and our path to Europe, what is happening in Bosnia and Herzegovina in general. So that was the point of the debate. Then it is simply left aside at the Expansive College, and we are told that today we will only plead on HDZ's request.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17452	That's exactly how it is. Mr. Sead Avdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17453	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I think that the College had a great way out of this situation from the point of view of the College's obligation to schedule a session with the High Representative on the topic and representatives of OHR on the subject – the overall relations between OHR and BH parliamentary institutions. It also means BH Parliament and the simple institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This has already been done with the lists of 15 MPs just 5 months ago and 5 months straight, the College persistently refuses to schedule a session. He persistently refuses to schedule the session, and has an obligation under the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Does not this HDZ request really fit this request and the College's obligation to schedule and design and prepare such a session? I got a promise through the answer to prepare the session. There's no session being prepared, Mr. Chairman. There is no session with OHR representatives and the High Representative. And in that context, I think, if HDZ agrees in the context of this session here requires that we simply discuss HDZ's request. and in this sense means the overall relations between OHR and the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the BH institutions of government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17454	Please, my dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17455	Dear President, I am in favour of this proposal. I think it should have been done sooner. I also don't think the Kolegijum has done anything to make it happen, like it doesn't make any other things, as far as I can tell, I'm not sure here. 9 We have accepted in the House of Representatives the meetings of this house. The authority of this home should certainly be in relation to the service institutions to accept these initiatives very quickly. And we don't have any hints, we don't have any indication that it's going to happen soon. I think there is a need for a long time to see the relationship between the OHR and this parliament and, in general, institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And the happiest solution is to look at it as a whole. Of course, the HDZ proposal is in some way an initial capsule that needs to facilitate such a single debate. I think definitely, definitely, that's definitely what this House needs. I think we should make an urgent appointment and hold a hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17456	Thank you. Mr. Martin Raguž, vice president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17457	The Honorable Presidency, respected MPs, ministers, guests, means since several times the HDZ initiative and other initiatives have been mentioned here, I would like to say the following. First to Mr. Lagumdžija, so we have scheduled a session, based on the conclusions of this House, we have put your resolution on the agenda and my quadruple insistence has been verified that the SDP party has been called. It could be a technical problem. That's what we need to discuss. So we haven't forgotten the SDP, we wouldn't put it on the agenda. And in the context of your resolution and these initiatives, we have scheduled a public hearing on the committee within this House in the next 10 days on all aspects of the role of the High Representative. And based on the evaluations of the European Commission and the European Parliament and the Venice Commission, and I think it is also time for the political parties to give their opinion. So, let's explain this situation. So there goes the preparation procedure and it fits into these initiatives to hold a plenary session. Because someone has to prepare a certain kind of position and a proposal for that plenary session. And I think it's obvious here today that this plenary session won't be able to escape. Those who think they will, it's okay, I respect that view, but overall relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the processes will lead to the need to discuss all these important elements soon. And let me get that as soon as possible, because if you put us in charge today, I am as a member of the College ready to participate in that sense. And the second thing is an indication of HDZ's initiative. She also fits into these debates politically and plenaryly, and this is business gentlemen. Since the College has not reached consensus and the request is renewed, the House decides on this initiative because we did not get support from the College to hold a plenary session only on this topic. So it just needs to be determined about this initiative in the middle of the day, and that doesn't mean that its contents won't fit into this plenary session. Here.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17458	I thank Mr. Raguž. Mr. Nikola Špirić, vice president. Here you go. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17459	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed guests, I feel that when we discuss this matter we simply go outside the Rules of Procedure and have a general debate. Much more important things for Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's why I'd like you all to have paper on the bench based on which the College of the House of Representatives pleads today. And he says - on the basis of Article 19(d) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I ask you, in cooperation with the College of the House of Nations, to schedule an emergency plenary session of both homes regarding the conclusion of the HDZ presidency since 31...2005 on the action and relationship of the High Representative on the replacement of members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. I have to say, I wasn't in college for a plenary session to be scheduled. I think it's unfortunately, or fortunately a done deal. I think there are a lot of more pressing things and what is the problem of Bosnia and Herzegovina that we are willing to stay in two hours of public debate when the legal projects of this country are, try to analyze them we adopt them in 5 seconds. And that's why we often have interventions to change legal projects because I feel almost that problem and we don't devote ourselves. I don't mind having any discussion. But I'm asking you to do business. So we're not going out of business because we're going to stay long, but we're going back to a statement on the HDZ initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17460	I think things are completely clear now. Mr. Špirić read this request for me. The request therefore concerns the work and Decision of the High Representative on the replacement of members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency and that is what the College has decided on. Mr. Vinko Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17461	You could have been the chairman by the end, if you hadn't finished. I don't insist.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17462	I always give priority until we learn not to answer until the discussion is over. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17463	I'm sorry my proposal took so much time and time. But it seems to me that the proposal I made and read by my colleague Špirić fits the suggestions of others. We can conclude here that there will be a plenary session that will fit in and what the HDZ Club requires. Because we don't make decisions when this plenary session is gonna be and it's not on today's agenda. But we're renewing the request. So I think it'll satisfy it and all those who discussed it. We would, of course, argue and how counterpart Špirić read about the replacement of the Croatian member of the 11th presidency. So no one can stop, so here's when we determine the agenda we can't stop the debate. Both the facts and everything else were mentioned here and the names and the poplašiti of Pobresen and Čović, etc. So it is enough for us to adopt here on the occasion of the adoption of the agenda to adopt the conclusion that the plenary session will be held and that what the HDZ Representatives Club is looking for will also be discussed at that session.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17464	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. So we are doing business, so we have to say business because the College has therefore not accepted this initiative, we have to make a business statement now because it has a renewed request. I call on you to prepare for the vote and therefore it is related to this HDZ request for this plenary session of both homes on the action and the High Representative's decision to replace members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. We have to make that clear. Prepare to vote. Prepare to vote and vote now. - Nine for, 18 against, nine abstentions. I find that the House of Representatives did not accept this request and that it was practically confirmed by the College's position not to hold a plenary session. Of course, Kolega of Lagumdžija and colleagues of Abdić I want to say from here, as chairman of the House, that the session will be discussed otherwise on the role of the international community, the projections and everything they have said so far will be, that is the scope of the College to realize it. I'm sorry we haven't arrived yet, Mr. Avdić. I can accept your criticism, but it will certainly come on the agenda and Parliament should deal with these important political issues of course. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I hereby declare that the 55th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly reads. I'm sorry, we have one more question, me, me. I'm sorry. Mr., SDP Club, therefore representatives of Zlatko Lagumdžija, Jozo Križanović, Selim Bešlagić submitted a motion for a resolution on anti-fascism. You've got that resolution here. According to Article 121. The Rules of Procedure of the House should be made clear whether this resolution will be addressed to the Commission, or whether it will be put on the agenda immediately today. I will now, of course, ask, according to the Rules of Procedure a question, please. I also think it's pointless to postpone. May 9th is coming, but you will plead through your vote. Whoever votes, please nice, I also think this should be on the agenda today. That's what I'm saying publicly, and I'm willing to support this resolution to immediately resolve the dilemmas around me. Please, nice. Please nice, please nice. However, I am obliged to follow the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure say I'm obliged to ask you, and here's the Secretary of the House. Let him explain it to you. We discussed it this morning at the College, if you're here to refer this to the commission. Whoever votes to go to the commission means it's not to discuss it today. The one who votes against going to the commission will automatically be the agenda of today's session. That's the procedure. Mr. Lagumdžija. Here you go. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17465	Mr. Chairman, I am perfectly clear to you as I trust all of us that there is no dilemma here. We, if we have some, may disagree that the future mandate of the High Representative should look in some nuances. If we have disagreements about how aggressive we should be towards the international community, that is all that justifies that in that previous resolution you put into the commission phase and thus opened more discussions. However, I am afraid that today we are voting with this vote to extend this resolution through committees. We're sending a message that, I'm afraid, is a message that no European country has sent. And that's that there's something unclear about anti-fascists here. In other words, I would ask Mr. Chairman not to treat this as anything that matters whether it goes to the committee or not. So I would ask you, Mr. Chairman, that here at the vote we have in mind that by voting for today's decision on this and today's adoption of a resolution that actually says that this country stands with other European countries on the side of anti-fascism is a message that is not questionable and I would ask that we do not send the wrong message and that we do not allow the abuse of any procedural pro-longing of this one resolution. Because prolonging the resolution sends a very clear message to the European institutions that we here in Parliament are not very clear with antifascism, which I am absolutely convinced is not true. Namely, here we are clean with antifascism. I hope that we are identically clear, so I would ask that, however, this be the point of the agenda that we are going to determine today and send a very clear message as loud as possible and louder as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17466	I thank Mr Lagumdžija, so the MPs will decide whether this will be the item of the agenda today, and everyone in this room will therefore make a decision and there is no dilemma in that, according to the procedure provided for by the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Petar Kunić is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17467	...we are on the trail of a revolution like this, a resolution, but I must say that the content aspect is not acceptable in some parts of our club. So I'm afraid, and we certainly are, and we're absolutely for the resolution, and there's no dilemma here. It means you don't have to explain it specifically. But its contents are in some parts controversial. Even historically incorrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17468	Okay. Mr Miloš Jovanović, then Mrs Ljiljana Milićević. You haven't heard from her. All right. All right. Well then, Mr. Filip Andrić, you are after Filip Andrić, Mrs. Mara Perkanović. Here you go. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17469	Here I am going to repeat what I said at the Expanded College. Normally I have nothing against this resolution, but there is one principled thing I want to say here. Yesterday I read in the paper, or last night I heard on TV that the youth of the SDP is writing some petition against the chairmanship of Bosnia and Herzegovina Mr. Paravac by calling him the ugliest and ugliest names that really are, we can now respect a man or not, but in the end it's probably children who are instructed whether by Mr. Lagumdžija or I don't know which simply means humiliating and honoring that function. And that's why, so not because we're against the resolution. So that's why we won't support this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17470	You're not listening to me, Mrs. Perkanović. I said your name for the pay phone, follow when. Of course, Mr. Filip Andrić asked for a word, and you prepare Mrs. Perkanović after Mr. Filip Andrić is you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17471	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. From my colleague Lagumdžija's debate to conclude that one of us asked us to bring this resolution and it means unless we bring this sort of resolution, that we are against anti-fascism, or that we are for fascism. First of all, I think it's incorrect to bring this home into, or impose such a dilemma here. On the other hand, I am also against privatizing antifascism from any party. Because it doesn't have to mean that antifascism is just what the SDP writes. Indeed, I have no objection to the resolution, but I ask that the resolution go to the committee so that I can make a contribution to the contents of the resolution. Not to be a resolution of the SDP, but to be a resolution of this home, or Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I am fully in favour of going to the commission and that the content of the resolution Mr. Kunić said is fixed and complemented in the segments in which we estimate that it should be fixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17472	Thank you. Mrs. Perkanović. Here you go. Let Mrs. Milićević prepare herself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17473	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as this text of the resolution is concerned, I just want to say that I don't see from it whether it's anti-fascism, or the continuity of communism?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17474	Mrs. Ljilja Milićević. Have Mr. Selim Bešlagić prepare himself. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17475	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I think that if there is a need for this to be said to me in this way, it means that we stand, that 60 years since the fight against fascism could be made, that if this document came up, I found it here on the table, if it showed up, at the Expansive College, it means we wouldn't argue about 5 dots, we should either 5 or 1 or everything can fit into five sentences, if there is a need for the documents we could get one harmonised text of this, this home, if there's a need and bring one such resolution that we don't argue here. You see, there's a lot of sides, and it's easy for everyone to find something to upset him. I mean, it's in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially the other day we had a 60-year gap in Jasenovac. It would be good if the gentlemen showed up there to pay tribute to the victims. As for Republika Srpska on May 9th, it is proposed for the holiday as a day means fighting Fascism, the day of victory. I think it'll be a holiday for Bosnia and Herzegovina on May 9th. By adopting and doing things like that, by accessing things, I think we're going to do a lot more and more to help not repeat the evil that happened here, but by making a resolution. Or if there's supposed to be a resolution, you're supposed to sit at the College with an extended seat and do a draft that nobody's gonna argue about. That's my suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17476	Mr. Selim Bešlagić. Have Mr. Nikola Špirić, vice-president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17477	Dear Chairman, let me just say a few words. First of all, there's no mention of Mr. Paravac anywhere in this resolution, and I'd ask that people who aren't in this text be inserted. So this is about our proposal if it comes to the agenda immediately form a committee in this sense to sit down and give that text, we'll take a break for 10-15 minutes, agree the text. Therefore, the moment it is adopted, it is no longer a SDP proposal, but is then a fact-finding resolution of this parliament. If we do that, then we'll do something, but if it's rejected because it's put forward by the SDP, then this is a parliament that can never function. Therefore, the antifascism resolution as a movement, as in continuity everywhere in the countries of Europe, has been accepted as such and what bothers us to give that resolution as well. But here, this is just an initiative that needs to be read -- we give it, if it's accepted to break down, right now let it sit, let a commission do it, let it form a text, and let it come here to the House of Representatives. But I would ask you, don't let the resolution get into any elements that absolutely don't come in that part. If it captures the continuation of Communism, I'm honored to have it here. But come on, make a deal. If you have to, don't throw out everything that makes this country a state. But I'm not for this to be a SDP proposal after the debate. This is an initiative to go, there will be a resolution of this House. 15 So I think it's a good idea to put it in the agenda. Then we will plead as Mr. Kunić said and others. Please agree, let one draft be made that we will just accept all, as Mrs Milićević said.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17478	Mr. Špirić. Let Mr. Križanović prepare himself. Please be nice, so do we have to have this kind of discussion about things that are completely clear? Come on, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17479	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, ministers of distinguished guests, of course I didn't think I was answering, but the way the debate was being held is not good, according to my assessment. I think we should also congratulate the SDP for coming out with this resolution. As MPs, we must obtain such strength, no matter what we think of the inner contents of the resolution. I don't think one day a year is a day of fighting fascism, not a single resolution, it's a constant obligation for all of us, 365 days a year. After the tragedy and evil that took place in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think the resolution shows the political position of all of us that we are the country that was on the side of which it was at that time when the vampire fascism was harassed by these places. So I think that should be the point of the agenda, that if there is a misunderstanding on the text of the resolution that those who care about it will be adopted, I do not believe that these views are diametrically opposite, that they cannot be completed today and that we will send the political position of all of us to the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I think that the SDP and if it wanted to pick up political points has and on what, and that's why we're going to support it being a part of the agenda, and I'm going to talk about the content myself and ask the SDP to do what it thinks should be an integral part of that resolution and I don't think the SDP will be intolerant in what Professor Kunić was talking about. That's why I think we should conclude the debate, put the agenda in place, and I don't think that I'm in favour of making an exception to this resolution and not going to the committee, together with the fact that the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina expects a clear voice, at least Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17480	Thank you. I'm asking you one more time to explain things. I don't think there's any clear procedure here. This house will decide through a vote on the procedure whether it will be a point today, or go to the commission. Just like it says in the Rules of Procedure. The question will be, as the Rules of Procedure here says, that the House should be declared before it goes to the commission. Those who vote against the proposal to go to the commission are for this to be on the agenda today, and that will be on the agenda today, if the House refuses to go towards the commission. Therefore, there is no dilemma. That's what people are going to decide here. Well, you're smart people, you know, the Rules of Procedure, and there's no problem. The House's decision on this, so it has to be today. Here you go. Sir, this is our turn, Adem Huskić. Let Mr. Križanović prepare himself. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17481	Did I get the word?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17482	Yes, yes, yes, you are Ademe Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17483	I speak for myself, but I am convinced that all my colleagues from the club agree with me, so I think I can say on behalf of the Party for BiH Club that we support the adoption of the resolution today and say that I personally do not see anything that would be controversial in this text. So I congratulate my colleagues from the SDP on this text. I think it's correct and the initiative is correct and I join what Mr. Špirić said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17484	I thank you, too. Mr. Križanović. Have Mr. Sead Avdić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17485	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really wouldn't want to polymerise the low, nor would I take the time to talk about the significance of this resolution. But I feel the need to tell my colleagues from the SDS that it's really not right, it's not in principle in order or collegiate, however we want to be publicly said that we're apriors against what's coming from the SDP. I am convinced that we have very carefully formulated the resolution, acceptable to all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we believe that the resolution is necessary as many others do. And let's not be afraid of resolutions. From this parliament, as counterpart Špirić said, it would be good for certain resolutions to come out more often as an expression of the parliament's political will when it comes to major political and economic problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I ask you colleagues to show good faith and we'll all win with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17486	Thank you. Mr. Sead Avdić and then we'll conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17487	I'll just be brief, I think the resolution deserves to change just the approach to reviewing the resolution, or pleading at home. So I'm asking the chairman to put the resolution as a proposal for a agenda point and we have a right to do so and don't convince me otherwise. So we put in, therefore, a resolution on anti-fascism proposed by the SDP Club as a part of the agenda, and we thus demonstrate our political will not to send it into the commission phase. So we can just reverse the question and get the simple consent of this home to go to the agenda. So it wouldn't be correct for the resolution to come as a result of the plea, so it shouldn't be on the committee, so, yeah, it's normal. So please, I beg you, the agenda point – the resolution and we will also say that it does not go into the commission phase. Let's just change the simple question.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17488	I thank Mr. Avdić, but you've been the chairman here for two years, and you could ask that question when it comes to the Rules of Procedure to run as a change. You shall be chaired by the Committee for the Amendment of the Rules of Procedure and shall do so where it belongs, and shall allow me to hold a session as ordered by the Rules of Procedure. He won't step down from the Rules of Procedure while I'm sitting here, no matter how anyone interprets my actions, and I said so, so I said my position when it comes to this resolution. I think it should be today and I'll vote for the resolution. But please, I'm the chairman of the House and he's the Rules of Procedure before me. I will give my word at the end to the Secretary of the House to give an explanation that I am not involved in this situation. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17489	I would like to thank you for opening up the possibility that we might be able to clarify some things, after all.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17490	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17491	There's no need for any misunderstandings about this. I thank those who supported it in a cut way, but for the correctness of Mr. Andrić, it's not my message, but I just said that there will be a perception in the public unless we are clear in this today, no matter what you and I are saying, that a bad idea about us will be created today if we are inaccurate when it comes to one of these resolutions. On the other hand, I also want to say that if this were SDP's resolution, there'd be a lot of what's perfectly clear to us that you don't have, most of us here can't accept. So we didn't want to write a resolution, which would be SDP's resolution, because our resolution can't get most of it in this home. It's perfectly clear to us. We said that in our programme, and it's perfectly clear that there is no majority here, and that's why we went to something that we think is quite clear and precise message to Europe and the world, that there is a large enough, smallest common denominator between us when it comes to antifascism. Also don't be incorrect, the Youth Forum and those children, are not my children, there are also your children from other parties at the Youth Forum, who are completely independent children and depend on 18 of their parents, including you, from your parties. And they're doing it, out of their heads, and they don't need any instructor or professor. I've been designated as the instructor of everything and everything, but there's no need because we wanted to plead as SDP in a way that those children and yours and ours made a statement about the president of the presidency, which is why you know what. So, in the end, I must once again underline what counterparts Bešlagić and Jozo Križanović said as president of our club, we can only be a compliment that SDS says that all that comes from us is something that is unacceptable to you. But I really don't think that's right for you. It's perfectly acceptable to us. But we all don't need that, and I would ask, we are, if it's in any way possible to respect these remarks that exist here, we are open to forming one commission and even to take this as a starting point this material, if that's what you want. And by the end of the day, we come out with some text that is acceptable enough for all of you and yet it is a message that this is an anti-fascist country with a few dishonest exceptions whether it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17492	Is there any need for further discussion? Here's Mrs. Milićević, Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17493	Well, I can't agree with Mr. Lagumdžija's findings that he said the SDS was against it. I just said we wouldn't argue about the form if it meant, if we wanted to go with the resolution, we could together make one form, just so this story doesn't happen. At the same time, on any occasion, on March 29th, the Bureau held a session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the occasion of a 60-year victory over fascism. After that, there will be a reception ceremony. So, this segment, it's an official document, so we're going to have this solemn session, is it possible for this solemn session, Mr. Lagmdžija, to agree if there is a need for the text of the resolution, to do today's part that's agreed, here's just a new proposal for thinking, here's to find the best solution, not to obstruct your proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17494	Thank you. Who is it now? Mr Ivo Miro Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17495	I would like to thank Mr. President, members of the House of Representatives, colleagues, friends, esteemed representatives of the Council of Ministers and respected guests. I'm the person who answered to say two or three sentences, about whether we should talk about this at all or not, and in what way. I'd love to agree with that. We split the tissues, the two, the three to yell, we'll clap, and if that's, that's okay. And if we're going to get into content, encourage the community, that from what happened in the past, we're going to need to talk about what happened in those times. If we were to go with the resolution today, I'd ask how it's possible, and I've got a lot of remarks on the text, how to change the content of the text. Reasoned, not improvised on text content. That is why it is acceptable for me to be on the Commission and we have already talked about 19 today that before here some of the date of the ceremony can be held both by the Commission and Parliament with this agenda point. I'm not going to, uh, go into content, but certainly to back up this proposal, me and the antifascism resolution doesn't have the title itself. I think that in World War II, it was not only about fascism, it was about Nazism and Japanese imperialism, and I have to admit Communism. And that's why I think it's very important when it comes to the question of the day of victory over fascism, it's the day of victory over Nazism and you know well that 2-3 months after that, only in one hour 250 thousand people were killed, Hirošime, Nagasaki, after this day, which victory, is that selective victory and for whom is victory. We want to say that it belongs to another planet,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17496	Look, Mr. Jović,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17497	I'll be right there.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17498	I'd like to ask you, look, this is a debate on the agenda, please don't go in, please bring the end of the line, we've got a big agenda today.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17499	I'm just saying where my dilemmas are. So, I'm not going to go into content, I'm only talking about my dilemmas as a confirmation that it's very important to do a single text that would be comprehensive and show young generations that we living people are responsible for this community, we don't want it to be repeated, because I can't go beyond that that someone has arranged for the division of Poland and today we're going to go celebrate there and 20 million people kill their citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17500	Okay, thank you. Please just one more Mr. Sead Avdić, a little while. Short, you've already had it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17501	Article 121 gives a second position, each MP may submit a motion for a resolution, a point. The motion for a resolution will be discussed at the House session unless the House decides that it is necessary to consider it previously. Since no one insisted on going to the Commission in the House discussion, a motion for a resolution is being voted on on the agenda. I ask you to accept this suggestion. It's clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17502	Thank you, sir, thank you. Please Secretary Home, please nice, we have all-mechanisms, slowly. I'm closing the debate. I ask the Secretary of the House to give clarification to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mrs. Todorović. May I have your attention, please? 20
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17503	Since we have already discussed this issue several times at the House, and I remind you that the 35th session has already had an interpretation of a resolution, but since the House Secretary's opinion on this issue is sought, I would like to remind you that we have special provisions in the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, in Article 121, 122, which are completely decadent. Given that the interesting question raised today at the House is to apply the provision of Article 121(2). - any MP can submit a motion for a resolution. The motion for a resolution was submitted by several MPs, so this first part of the Rules of Procedure is respected. The motion for a resolution to be discussed at the House session unless the House decides that it is necessary to consider the commission first. So the questions to be spoken about today by the House, gala, who is in favour of the motion for a resolution on anti-fascism, proposed by MPs Zlatko Lagumžija, Jozo Križanović, Selim Bešlagić, to be addressed to the competent commission. If the proposal passes, it shall be referred to the competent commission. If the House is manifest about this and believes it should not go to the competent committee, the resolution will automatically enter the agenda of the home. That's my opinion of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17504	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, please, Mr. Avdić, I didn't give you my word. Please sit down, don't let me out now, don't let me go outside the beat. I've been tactful so far, I've said my opinion, I've told the Rules of Procedure and asked the Secretary of the House to give an explanation. Please, you have the right to think she's wrong, but she gave an interpretation. The college gave an interpretation. Please prepare to vote. Prepare to vote, the question is, who is in favour of this resolution being addressed to the Commission. Those who vote yes, they're against being on the agenda today. Those who are against it, they are for the resolution to be on the agenda today. Please, nice. The question is whether to refer the resolution to the Commission or not. Prepare to vote. I said vote now.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17505	I ask that the vote be repeated, please, I ask that the vote be repeated.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17506	At the request of Mr. Nikola Špirić, I declare this vote irrelevant. I urge you to prepare to vote again on the same issue. Prepare to vote. Vote now. With 13 votes against, 21 votes against, and with enough entity eternity, this house, please, is this home with 13 votes to, let me just finish, 21 21 votes against, did not accept that this resolution is going to the Commission and it will be the point of the agenda today. Please, and it's just going to be that we're just going to figure out which part of the agenda, is that going to be what? The 19th point of the agenda. Please, after this, please, please, after this, please nice, after this, please pay attention, Mr. Avdić, please pay attention, Mr. Avdić. Please, Mr. Avdić, listen to me, so I can move on. I declare the agenda of today's session, first one. Journal of the 54th House of Representatives, I'll explain later, 2. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection by Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 4. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 5. Proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, first reading, 6. Proposed competition law, first reading, 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Purpose and Use of Part of Assets, which BiH received under the Agreement on Sucession Issues, First Reading, 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, first reading, 9. Proposal for a law on the transfer of mediation affairs to the Mediators' Association, proposed by MP Mirsad Ćeman, first reading, 10. Proposal for a Law on the Public TV System of BiH, with the Commission's report on Transport and Communications, 11. Report by the Joint Commission on the alignment of the identical text of the Postal Act, 12. Business report of Bosnia and Herzegovina Financial Audit Office for 2004, 13. Consideration of the BiH Central Bank's annual report for 2004, b) Central Bank's financial report 14. Report on visits made by Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions in the area of defence and security with a proposal for sublimed conclusions and measures, submitted by the Joint Defence and Security Policy Commission, 15. Report on the 2004 Election Commission's work, 16. Report on the results of the investigative commission, forming to determine the circumstances of the arrest of Ante Jelavić, Miroslav Prce and Miroslav Rupčić, with an absecction of compliance with the law of the prescribed procedure and, possibly in violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms. 17. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, improving the material and organisational capacity of the BiH Prosecutor's Office in 2004 and the state of crime in BiH in 2004, 22 18. Proposal for an interpretation at the request of the Commission to consider the status of persons naturalised after the entry into force of the Constitution of BiH until the entry into force of the Law on Citizenship of BiH and 19 March 2016. Proposal for a resolution on anti-fascism, submitted by Mr Zlatko Lagumdžija, Jozo Križanović and Selim Bešlagić, Mr Miloš Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17507	I think in the previous vote, the Rules of Procedure were broken and there was no entity majority. So they have 4 against, it has to be 5. I'm asking this one to interpret it and ask for a break on behalf of the 15-minute MPs' club.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17508	You're just going to get an interpretation, to close the agenda, and you're going to get a break. Secretary of the House, please give an interpretation.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17509	Can you repeat this monitor, I can't see
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17510	Repeat the monitor from the previous vote, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17511	Please, just to clear up the dilemmas of this, and to Mr. Avdić, I am obliged as Secretary of the House to say that the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure according to Article 19 j) and iot, gives the College home. I did not interpret the Rules of Procedure, I was obliged as Secretary of the House to give my opinion, to read the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. That's what I did. So the question that was voted on at the House today was: the application of Article 121 of point 2 of the resolution on anti-fascism to the committee in charge, that was the question. According to my record, the proposal did not receive the total majority of those present, who voted. So that's the first quantum to be won, so at that point, it's not the entity majority that matters at all. According to this record I have, 13 MPs voted for, right? Here I have here and,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17512	Against the 21st,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17513	The vote was 21. So, he defacto by applying the rules of the Rules of Procedure on Voting, did not get the total majority, those present vote, those who are abstentioned, they do not count. Just a quorum, and they don't add to votes for and against. So he didn't get the total majority of those present. Therefore, this proposal has not been accepted and the resolution in my opinion goes to the House's session. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17514	Please nice, so I did the right thing, this is the 19th point of the agenda. We're going to the first item of the agenda, please, I'm done with the agenda, this is the agenda, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17515	Mr. Chairman, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure alone, would you please, as legislators, all of you who have any suggestions, that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the College with which we can sit, submit amendments to your amendments and additions to the Resolution so that they may be made manifest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17516	Thank you. So the agenda has a 19th point. Are you still looking for a break or can we start doing something and we'll take a break later? How much do you want to take a break? I'm taking a break at the SDS Club's request, 15-minute break. We're continuing 15 to 12. We've established the agenda. /PAIUZA/ colleagues, the break is up, we're 10 minutes late, we're back to work. The president, or vice president of the SDS Club, asked for a break, Mr Jovanović. Are you looking for a word? Mr Miloš Jovanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17517	So I want Mr. Chairman, however, to find out that the Rules of Procedure has been broken, means that a member of our 64th Rules of Procedure has been broken, which means that some decision would have been made, means there has to be one-third of the entity and I ask that this House be declared whether or not the Rules of Procedure has been broken in this case.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17518	Mr. Jovanović, I thank you. The College of Interprets Rules of Procedure. You heard the secretary's explanation. I think there's been enough talk about these things. I have declared the agenda and I am prepared to answer for all the consequences of what I have done today as chairman, and I hope the College and that is the only one where you can intervene as far as the Rules of Procedure and his interpretation are concerned, you have received enough interpretations. This is the agenda point and we move to the first item of the agenda, that's 24 Ad.1. A record from the 54th session of the House of Representatives, Honored colleagues and colleagues, you have received the minutes. I'm opening a discussion on the record itself. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. We're voting on the record. Vote now. 27 for, no one against, no one abstention, enough entity majority, I find we've adopted a record from the 54th session. Moving to the second item of the agenda, Ad.2. Parliamentary questions and answers Parliamentary questions and answers, to this day we have answers to the parliamentary questions of gentlemen; Beriz Belkić and Momčilo Novaković from the 50th session, Muhamed Moranjkić with 51st and Mrs Dušanka Majkić and Miorad Živković from the 52nd session. Here, any comments on the answers? I'm asking these gentlemen. There's Mr. Moranjkić. We'll go later with a question, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17519	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the efficiency of work, very short. This is not an adequate question, because I don't think it's answered the question. I ask that the question be carefully read and answered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17520	Thank you very much. Next Mrs. Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17521	I just want to say that this answer has just confirmed the slow application of the law in BiH between the remaining and the Gender Equality Act that I have asked the question and has shown that the Gender Equality Agency is neither human or material in a position to act in accordance with Article 23. Gender equality laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17522	Thank you. Mr. Molorad Živković, have Mr. Beriz Belkić prepare, please. Just this short if you can,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17523	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the question I have asked concerns the Law on Copyright and Related Rights and the question has been asked because of our obvious neglect that when a law is passed out of this room, then no one follows it and we have no feedback on how this law is implemented. The fact that we have a lot of laws in BiH, which we have passed and that, after that, sublaws are governed by this law and are given permission, i.e. a link to various associations and foundations, that 25 implement the law, and then no one controls the law as it is implemented. Here, I responsibly argue that the law on copyright and related rights in BiH is not being implemented properly and no one is controlling its implementation. For this reason, I propose to the Institute of Measurement and Standards to propose amendments to this law in terms of control of the implementation of that law and to whom a licence may be granted and to whom that authorisation should be withdrawn, if it does not implement that law properly and several have requests for authorisation at the Institute. However, these people do not respond at all to such demands. It would be fair to answer that they cannot get permission, not to get away with certain shortcomings in the law, and I suggest that if the Institute does not do so, I will do so as an MP to amend and supplement the copyright law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17524	Thank you. Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17525	I have received answers to two parliamentary questions and I would like to comment very briefly. So, in a statement by the FIP director at the time, if you remember Mr. Mirza Hajrić, that the Party's activities on amending and supplementing the FIP law will produce a suspension of BiH's credit from the Business Environment Progress Programme. We have received an answer that clearly and precisely says that, absolutely our activities and amendments and additions to this law have nothing to do with giving and not giving this loan, and I want to publicly say that then Mr. Mirza Hajrić, director of the FIP, has been misleading the public and has lied and done political damage to the parties to BiH. That's one thing. Secondly, I have asked the question, which are bodies, i.e. institutions, and whether they have received a report from the European Commission on the fight against racism, etc., if you remember and I get an answer from the Ministry of Human Rights, displaced persons and refugees, not to reproduce everything, finally says that BiH executives, including the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, are struggling to remove these phenomena of human rights violations, etc. based on religious, national, etc. divergences, but that's a phenomenon that I can't remove from these bodies of the state, regardless of being five times more effective, but that's a matter of historical vice. I, indeed, cannot accept such an answer nor wait for this historic process, that in this country such phenomena may be removed, but I appeal to all the organs, primarily this ministry which has so answered me to stop these findings, but to fold up the sleeves and fight for the elimination of these phenomena. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17526	Thank you, too. Let's go with the new questions. No more comments, Mr. Filip Andrić. Raise your hands to be signed by the secretary, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17527	First of all, I would like to inform you that I, too, have received an answer to the parliamentary question, or a parliamentary initiative from the 53rd session. From this answer I'm about to read, I'm missing something. Half of my initiative was lost along the way, it seems to me from me to the federal parliament, and when we discussed the Federal Employment Institute, my initiative to hold a debate on the situation in the institution, and the other part of the initiative referred to the competent one to raise the issue of the replacement of the director of the Federal Employment Service because of his relationship with Parliament, where, as we then concluded in the debate, he insulted two state-owned nations in BiH, or rather ignored it. In response, we received your letter informing us that at the 53rd session, held on March 1st, or this is March 10th, as it says in 2005, MP Filip Andrić sent an initiative to Parliament and the Federation government to request a debate on the state of affairs at the Federal Employment Office. This is to conclude, meaning that my entire initiative didn't leave here, that's why I ask our service to check it out, and if that's really the case, I suggest that the initiative be re-routed, so the second part of the initiative, as regards the Director's replacement initiative. And if that's gone, remind them that we've been looking for something else, not just a debate in the Federal Parliament about the state of the Bureau, well, here, I expect, or I'm asking our services to check it out, and that, if there's a failure in our office to correct it immediately, direct a full initiative, and if, of course, there's a question of responsibility, if someone really behaves like that in the services of this Parliament and takes the right to do such a thing, and another thing, if the whole initiative has gone away from us, then he'll go back to them and note that we didn't ask for this, but that we're looking for something else, in addition to what is to conclude from their answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17528	So, here's the deal. She's gone away full of initiative and to understand Mr. Andrić, therefore, we're forwarding it as your initiative, and not as the House's initiative, just as it is, and it's passed down with the signs of what you said at the session and we got the kind of answer that we got, and now, after your comment and repeated request, we're going to do it again, of course, there's no problem. Who's next? Mr. Moranjkić, get ready for Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17529	Very short, but there are three questions. I ask the Council of Ministers to answer me in writing. 1. What countries in Europe have introduced visas and when? 2. Did our country introduce visas to those countries that have introduced us, in other words, have reciprocity been achieved? 3. What are visa prices for certain countries?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17530	I thank you, indeed, Mr. Moranjkić, well, this is more than effective. Mr. Potočnik, get ready for Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17531	Mr. Chairman, I request a report to the BiH Parliament by the next session of this parliament, the Supreme Commander of the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers, or 27 of the BiH Army Ministers, on the events in Bilja and Manjaca, when taking the oath of the BiH Joint Army recruit.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17532	Thank you. Mr. Avdić, let Mr. Suljkanović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17533	So it was the same question as my colleague Potočnik said. So, defence minister Mr. Radovanović would be obliged to meet the House of Representatives with a report by the RS defence minister on events in RS military barracks Manjaca and Bileće in taking the oath, as well as measures the BiH Ministry of Defence will take to sanction those responsible. I pledirati that the defence minister is at the highest level, according to the Law on Defence of the BiH Parliament, and in this context, it was logical for this House to get acquainted with events, not to read it from the press or simply from other means of information. Which means, I ask for the oral response of Minister Radovanović to be made available at the first next session of the House. And, two. I ask the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, interpretation of Rules of Procedure 121. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17534	Thank you. Mr. Suljkanović, let Mr. Lozančić Ivo be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17535	The question was addressed to the Council of Ministers, and it reads. Have they so far undertaken any activities related to the initiative to put Sokolac Psychiatric Hospital in office of a closed-type social-health facility, for the purposes of the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Namely, the Party Club for BiH has received quite a number of acts, which show that in recent times an initiative has set out towards the Council of Ministers. We want to express our unreserved support for this initiative and, as soon as possible, we expect an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17536	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, my question is from the demining sector in BiH, because we are often witnesses, i.e. the breaking news of the deaths of people in the mined areas, so it would not be too much worse to commit that BiH is another country in the world according to sown mines, holding an infamous primate in Europe after the pollution of mines, which greatly reflects the process of returning to freedom of movement and limiting BiH's development opportunities. The process of demining BiH began immediately after the end of the conflict in BiH, but the pace of demining has not reached the level to this day, which can provide guarantees that BiH will be demined in a nearer period of time. Indicators about the pace of demining are not encouraging, and they are visible from the following facts. The total suspicious 28 surface area, which has been mined, is 2,145 ketokm, and the annual surface is 6.5 square kilometers. From this it is visible at what rate we are going, and the indicators say that in 2002, something fell compared to the earlier period. It is known that, mainly financial resources are also a major problem, and that so far demining has been based on various donations from international humanitarian organisations, as well as the US Government, Canada and Norway, but under the influence of new hotspots in the world, the interest of international entities in this problem is weak and thus the funds, which arrive through donations, are getting smaller and smaller. I must objectively conclude that this has brought our relationship to this danger in the fall of international interest. From this point on, it is clear that it offends the attention of all BiH entities, the process of demining, because especially if we know that it is being demined and two or three times in those parts, where two or three times it has been shiny corn and wheat, I come to those parts, where people die, we have neat certificates that the space has been demined, which I ask the Council of Ministers to ask if there has been a strategy for demining and when this area will be cleared from mines, and to provide me with information that all the companies have participated domestically and parties in demining and what amount has been paid to these companies for demining the BiH area and does the Council of Ministers intend to have at least co-ordinated role in the process of demining, since it is affecting the entire space and all the organisational units in BiH? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17537	Thank you. Mrs. Majkić Dušanka, let Mrs. Jelina Đurković prepare herself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17538	The question was asked by the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Justice. The Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office was formed within the framework of the European Union Technical Assistance Project, the BiH Ministry of Justice. The office was tasked with assisting the justice ministry in its role as the chairman of the inter-resor group for public administration reform. The office was tasked with drawing up a draft BiH public urpave reform strategy by the end of autumn 2004 and co-ordination of the public debate process as part of a strategy, with different levels of government, such as civil society, academic experts, the union, economic operators and public sector employees. I'm asking the D.O.D. to answer me. How far did it come with the above mentioned activities of the Public Administration Coordinator's Office? The answer, please, is delivered by written means.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17539	Thank you, Mrs. Majkić. Have Mr. Vinko Zorić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17540	Well, here's the question. The Council of Ministers, so he'll probably pass it on to the Ministry of Justice, to the Ministry of Human Rights, to the Dake, such a question. If all thefts are in the territory of the Federation of BiH, in the time of '91. - '95. Amnested by the Law on Amnesty 29 BiH, the Federation of BiH, how can stolen citizens make fair compensation and whom can they turn to for help? Because here I have a memo from the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office of the Tuzla Canton, with which Čovorić Drago from Zvornik, used to be in Zivonica, informs that the people who have alienated his property will not, they will not be investigated, because the work they have done, which is theft, has been amnesty, covered by amnesty. So, by the provision of Article 1. Amnesty Act. This act of theft has been amnesty and I wonder. How a man can make up for it, and he knows who took his material good, but he can't take it, he can't force the one who stole it to pay him back or to win it back. I'm just wondering how this is possible and asking to be answered. How do people who know where their property was stolen, who stole it, how do they make up for it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17541	Okay. Mr. Vinko Zorić and then we ended the parliamentary questions. Here you go. You weren't Mrs. Palavrić here in the O.R. when she raised her hand and kept a list when it came to this point, but, look, I see you here on this list, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17542	All right, I just wanted to know when my colleague Suljkanović answered the question and asked this question, give full support to the issue, because I, too, received a request from the health institutions, and I wanted to ask him on behalf of the club, but I failed because of the circumstances with my colleagues from the club to discuss it, and I sign this question that my colleague Suljkanović asked.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17543	Okay. I thank Mr. Co-signator for this question. Mrs. Seada Palavrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17544	I have a question to the Council of Ministers, above all, the Council of Ministers. Why is the draft law, which is today included in the 105th meeting of the Council of Ministers on 8 March, referred to the Parliamentary Assembly on 11 April and arriving on 11 April, and this is about Article 105? The next question is the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. In fact, it has become widely known that some prosecutors and some judges of the BiH Court are paying prematurely the governments of the countries from which they come. I ask the Council, how does this fact affect their impartiality and independence? And, second question to this council. It has also become undeniable and unquestionable that all judges of the BiH Court have an obligation to swear both domestic and foreign. The question is, did all the judges take an oath? If not, were the judges who did not take the oath involved in the decision-making of the BiH Court of Justice? If so, what are the consequences, given the BiH Criminal Procedure Act? I'll wait for the College to finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17545	The stenogram is filming you. You're free to speak. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17546	It's important to me, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17547	Thank you very much. You have our full attention from now on, I apologize for consulting on certain matters, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17548	Thank you very much. I call on the Council of Ministers, since I have not received answers to questions when it comes to the confiscation of property acquired by illegal actions, I call on the Council of Ministers to, in co-operation with the OHR, the Department of Justice Reform, propose amendments and additions to the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the sense that a department, which will exercise sanctions, fines and measures to confiscate the property benefit obtained illegally, is established in the Court of BiH. The next question is, the BiH Justice Ministry. Can the Institute for the Accommodation of Juvenile Violators in Stoc be trained, re-trained for the accommodation of minor offenders from all over Bosnia and Herzegovina? It was before the war, today we still don't have an institution where they'd settle, so often they're either on the street or they're with adults. The question, which I could not wait until the next session, is the Minister of Defence about the events, when it comes to taking an oath in the RS military. And, I would ask, if possible, that by the end of today's session, however, the minister to answer this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17549	Thank you very much, Mrs. Palavrić. There are no new reports. Thank you very much. We've also concluded the second item of the agenda. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. Ad.3. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection by Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Dear colleagues and colleagues, you have received this bill on April 12th. They were sent to you by mail on April 13th. We, therefore, have been given to Parliament on 12th and is immediately directed to all of you. It is a request for an emergency procedure under Article 105. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Moranjkić, after that, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17550	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly, by reading the explanation that you probably have yourself, a man wonders, so for God's sake, what kind of circus we're making of ourselves and of the legislation in this country. We don't want to legalize ourselves or anyone else's. We're changing the law and adapting it to our own dishappiness, and that's what we're doing with 31. Who assures us that after two months this part will not be done again and ask this Parliament for one such change? I'm against both this one and the one under point 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17551	Thank you very much. Mr. Beriz Belkić, may Mr. Mirsad Ćeman be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17552	Well, probably, what Mr. Moranjkić is talking about, I'll say the same thing in a way. It will not change anything, therefore, I clearly doubt that the Council of Ministers will understand the well-intentioned, or that it will in some way eliminate it, but I would like to say that the Members' Club of the Party for BiH wants to support this, but it is certain that the future will no longer be a hostage, therefore, not to carry out certain things, because you see, in an explanation for the changes and additions, it says that the reasons for the appointment of a director for which time was six months, that these are the reasons why the law is changing, so it is really unacceptable. We will support these changes and additions today, but we are sending a message to the Council of Ministers that we do not really want to be a hostage to these situations anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17553	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17554	I'd like to join the grades we've heard from these previous two discussions, but I'm not going on this subject, I'm going on a formal-legal nature. Namely, the point we are talking about, as next is, the adoption of the law under Article 105 previously declared by the High Representative. The suggestion is that we adopt them in identical text. I feel that we have recently adopted uniform rules for the making of legal rules in BiH institutions, which commit to, from the legal-technical aspect of the nomotechnical aspect, different approaches are now made to the validation of laws and, in this respect, to the pistachios of all future proposals, and in the first row of the Council of Ministers when they propose similar situations, and I hope that there will be fewer and fewer of these, yes, simply peek at the single rules and propose the validation of these laws accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17555	Thank you, Mr. Ćeman. Who else wants to talk? The debate shall be declared final. Prepare to vote. We are voting on a procedure under Article 105. 32 Vote now. I can't tell you that, Mr. Belkić. That's what you're gonna say right here on the monitor. I know as far as my powers go, not a second below it or a millimeter above it. Thank you very much. 24 for, 6 against, 1 abstention, sufficient entity majority, accepted procedure under Article 105. Prepare to vote on the law. Vote now. 29 for, 2 against, 1 abstention, enough entity majority, I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda. Ad.4. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. I'm opening a hearing with the Rules of Procedure. Procedure. Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17556	...but I'd like to ask the Proposer, if it's possible to explain in a more serious way, other than what's being said in the explanation. Why does a police committee from the status of an independent administrative organisation become a member of the ministry? For me, this is an essential question. It would be good to have an argument here to tell us what the reasons were and what the consequences were, spoken from the point of view of independence, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17557	Thank you very much. Mr Miloš Jovanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17558	Well, you see, if the previous law we passed was urgent, I don't think there's any reason for this to be urgent, and we're going to vote against article 105, and we're going to vote against the law, because I don't think five members can be urgent.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17559	Thank you very much. Does anyone have an answer for Mr. Belkić? There isn't. You're a representative of the Department of Security. Mr. Ermin, please be the speaker of the BiH House of Representatives and answer the question. Well, here, it's requested, I know I can address ministers and deputies, but the answer is requested. We have a man who can give an answer. I think Dom doesn't mind talking here at this time and on this subject someone who isn't a minister or a deputy, because he has an answer. If you don't mind, I'll ask the gentleman to leave the pay phone. Here you go. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17560	In the Law on Police Officers, it was intended to form a police committee as an independent administrative organisation. However, you know how an independent organisation is formed, then formed by law, and the Law on Police Officers was proposed to form it by a decision and it was one of the reasons for it to be deleted from the Law and to form the Police Committee within the Ministry of Security, as well as for the Ministry of Security to provide him with administrative support. So, if the police committee were to act as an independent administrative organisation, it would have to be formed by special law and I agree with Mr Belkić to contribute once, in order to contribute to the dependence of the police committee's work. However, the representatives of the Ministry of Security have decided on this variant, meaning it will be the committee one that will act within the Ministry of Security and I don't think it will come in this way, that independence will not be avoided, as the presidents of the Police Committee will make representatives of the SIPE, I don't know the DGS and others. So that was one of the reasons.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17561	Thank you, Mr. Pešto Nermin. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. We vote first on procedure. Vote now. 21 for, 10 against, 3 abstentions. 19 Federation, 2 RS does not have enough support from one of the two Bosnian Herzegovina entities. So there's no entity majority. So, we'll leave that behind, and we'll get along later, because we don't have the consent to get along right now. We're moving forward with today's session agenda. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda. Ad.5. The proposal of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, first reading In the introduction I would like to say that, behold, the moment has finally come that I can express the satisfaction that we finally received at the hearing of the Proposed Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. For the sake of reminders, I will say that at the 8th session of 4 February 2003, we formed a temporary commission, which we tasked with preparing amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. Indeed, the Commission has worked very long and thoroughly to prepare this material. It had to be done in parallel with the House of Peoples Commission, since many issues in the Rules of Procedure must be regulated equally in both homes. I note, when considering the Rules of Procedure, I would also like to point out that the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which delivered the report on 6 April 2005, is responsible for considering the Rules of Procedure. As you have seen, the Constitutional and Legal Committee adopted the draft Rules of Procedure with 23 amendments, adopted at the Commission's meeting. The chairman of this committee for the making of the Rules of Procedure is our esteemed colleague, Mr. Sead Avdić. I'm asking the chairman's commission, Mr. Avdić, if he wants to address the House at this time. Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17562	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidency, 34 I can express the simple satisfaction that the Commission has completed its part of the work six months after the appointment and decision of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which means, for the rest of the time, it is objectively spent on bringing the political consensus and joint texts of the two Rules of Procedures, Rules of Procedure of the House of People and Rules of Procedure, i.e. the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has more common, normal, series of specifics, which have been a real challenge for both committees in terms of agreeing and obtaining unique documents. So today, we can say that, conditionally speaking, we have met the basic objective, which is efficiency, transparency, responsibility, which is defined by this Rules of Procedure and in this context, we have avoided, conditionally speaking, most of the traps or simply possible manipulations or inaccuracies of individual members, or God Bog no obstructions, simply through the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Which means that I can express my gratitude to the Secretariat of the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the OSCE Mission, which has made an effort to really have foreign experts and assistance in the making of this Rules of Procedure and in this context, means that it has been changed essentially to the legislative process and to the other home, we have reached six joint committees of both the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly, we have come to the end of the transparent and public work and of the Commission and one and another home, in particular by designing the possibility of direct communication and dialogue with the Council of Ministers, at least in three or six months and, in this context, what has been the observation in the past, this year and two days of functioning that we have tried to remove and establish co-operation with the Council of Ministers. What is significant news, the Council of Ministers is jointly responsible for the legislative projects proposed by one and another home, allowing for the amendment of the Council of Ministers' action and in this context, I would say, to change the relationship and the leading position, the role left entirely and to give one and another home to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Which means, there is a document before us, which is objectively relatively well designed, sure that there is an opportunity to further improve and yes, it is simply critical... but, behold, the Constitutional and Legal Commission is through these amendments, which are essentially down to only one fundamental amendment. The Commission for Gender Equality has been reinstated in the jurisdiction of both home and home, and it has been a change that has been made and there is no problem there, because the Commission for Human Rights, Immigration and Asylum, etc. too large and large to be able to absorb and simply rightly affirm gender equality and, simply, that commission has been returned to being an independent commission of each other at home. Which means that it would be a good idea to try, after this first reading, and the amendment somewhere else if it were necessary to act, but once again really, thanks to all those entities, who participated in this Rules of Procedure, especially one atmosphere that ruled in one and another commission, for the first time, I would say, in this House, that the members of the Commission would be sorry that the Commission would stop working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17563	So that's why you worked together for two years.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17564	I said that the Komisja had finished its work in six months. If you just face a painful process of agreeing with the House of Nations, who, just 35 really a year without any false modesty, without any deception, have extended the work on this one and the other Rules of Procedure. Our rules of procedure was over in six months.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17565	Then I was really getting nervous about why this proposal wasn't here, and now I know why it wasn't there. Mr. Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17566	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I listened to my colleague Avdić say she was another committee, I don't think she was... she was a protected commission, etc. Here, I'm glad that's her opinion when it comes to his commission that this Parliament needs commissions to do their job, although two years if it's a lot, then I too am a lot of things about the principles, or the principles of this Rules of Procedure to say. I think that the Commission's work must have been guided by the principles that this Rules of Procedure be uncomplicated, to speed up and simplify the work in this House, to be decided in its members and not allow little to happen in this Parliament, the situation of the secretary coming out and explaining this Rules of Procedure and, of course, to ensure the dignity of this Parliament in relation to the Presidency, in relation to the Council of Ministers. In my opinion, the Rules of Procedure which is now before us did not in these parts do a job which, if these were the principles which were managed by the Commission, and I think that they should have been principles did not do their job. Only the members have 30 more than it was in the previous Rules of Procedure and 185 are therefore not simpler than it is more complicated. The deadlines of the legislative procedure in Article 106, etc. have been extended. which now refers to over 30 days and more and return to the Commission again, so they return to Parliament, etc., I think that in times of reform and what is called a delay in that part, does not justify the extension of any extension of the legislative phase of work in this Parliament. In order to speed up the work I've been doing here so that not every moment the chairman determines how much MP he needs to talk or doesn't need to talk, I think he should have been deceded to indicate how long the exposure to the legal project is going on. If the bill is to be spoken up to 20 minutes, MP up to 10 minutes, and the replica takes up to 30... it is only stated here that he has the right to speak for up to ten minutes. There is no need for each item of the agenda, if there is a report here and anything else, the MP has the right to speak for up to ten minutes, it is quite enough from three to five minutes to say what is thought and what should be understood. For that reason... the Rules of Procedure I think you should have. Article 105 complicates the procedure when no constitutional basis is seen in one of the commissions. I only think it's the Constitutional and Legal Commission that can determine whether any law has constitutional basis or has no constitutional basis. If the Constitutional and Legal Commission tells us that there is no constitutional and legal basis, which is, then, the reason that it comes back here to Parliament. I think it's a more complicated procedure. Not to mention the parliamentary issues, we've been talking about the environments here for two years, and we've been saying everything in them, or in the Rules of Procedure to stand on business issues, that's Article 151, where there's no mandatory presence of the Council of Ministers or anyone, so, Minister, Deputy and anyone else. It's being reintroduced here that they can come if they want to and if there's no one there, there's no need to give them an answer. What about the TV broadcast, which is not listed in the Rules of Procedure, and it is known that this is the conclusion of parliament here, even in a section called the parliamentary questions, which takes 60 minutes, after three minutes only twenty MPs can answer the question, where the old questions are answered, and new questions are put in the same time and to say in which order the 20 MPs will be lined up to work. Are we going to push here on principle when the chairman says now, press on then to apply and who will determine those twenty lucky people who can ask MPs questions? When we say that it is decadent in Article 104, it says to the conclusion that the debate has the right to withdraw the proposal, I think it is quite enough to say that by the start of the debate it can be submitted, to withdraw the bill, to any smart one who comes here knows that this legal project cannot go through and there is no need to discuss it for five hours and that he then withdraws the proposal of his law. So, I think it's a complication. Article 98 states that a law in the form of a written and electronic form is to be passed. I think it is enough to write or that either one or another form of law can come to Parliament, it is not necessary in two kinds. Many times there have been, it is a member of the 67th dilemma whether the chairman gives the word, or the MP takes it. It says here to the Rules of Procedure Mr Džaferović that the MP always gets his word when he asks for it, not when you give it. I think he should get a little bit straight there, so he should be when he's chairing that MP's word, not when he asks for it, then he can get up whenever he wants. Article 21 states that decisions are made by consensus, and if they are not made by consensus, and if they are not made by consensus, then again by consensus, see Article 21 or it is a mistake either in the member or someone has not seen well. When I spoke to Mr. Avdić, 28, on the formation of the commission, you were objecting because he was not a proposal for a commission's work programme. You have not introduced in Article 28 that it is mandatory for the committee to be here to be a commission's work programme. I think it would be a good idea to write a commission's work programme. If the principle of ensuring the integrity of this Parliament, I have already mentioned business issues and the mandatory presence of the Council of Ministers, I think it is one of the parts that this Rules of Procedure does not contain. It is also inadmissible that there is no applicant present. It is stated in the Rules of Procedure that the home can decide to discuss a topic if there are no proposals. I think that the one who proposes the agenda point, proposes the law, proposes the information, must be present here to discuss it at all, in order to preserve the dignity of this Parliament, and not to keep the majority of parliament saying, you know, there are no of them, let's talk about it, it's not safeguarding Parliament's dignity. The role of the Presidency, we've been given a decision, where the Presidency schedules a plenary session, you know, there's no one here to ask us if the Presidency has the right to schedule a plenary session or not having the right to schedule a plenary session. The presidency has the custom to bring justice to Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy within two years, and there is no obligation at least once a year to appear before Parliament and to discuss the implementation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy. I think the Rules of Procedure should sort it out in some way, even if he asks them to. 37 In all this, I will mention one more thing, that it is not clear in this Rules of Procedure what is going on with the projects that have been launched, the legal projects that have been done by one type of Rules of Procedure cease to be valid. So, those laws that are already going into procedure, whether they're going to work on the new rules of procedure, or whether they're going to work on the old rules of procedure. I think an amendment should regulate that, too, because you have some laws that are in the Council of Ministers and are standing in the Amandan phase, you know, and in all of this, the new rules of procedure are more complicated, it's not more efficient and it's more inaccurate, and I'm not talking about whether or not it provides Parliament's integrity and I'm not going to be able to support the principles as they say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17567	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Petar Kunić, then Mr. Miloš Jovanović, and I'll say something a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17568	It is certainly what Mr. Živković said that there are shortcomings in this Rules of Procedure and that will have every Rules of Procedure, which will be done and promoted. New Rules of Procedure. I'd like to make a point. That the work of this committee, unlike many other committees that I participated in before I was an MP in this esteemed home, was working in a very democratic way and I want to point out that. Sometimes we didn't agree on a question, about a provision, but it's been a while, and we've tried different ways to come up with a common position, and we've mostly done it. Many of my proposals have not been accepted. Many proposals from the president have not been accepted, many proposals from other members of the commission, but it is essential to say essentially that the work of this commission should in some ways be a form as much as possible with other commissions. That's why I wanted to point out this fact. This committee did a long time ago. So, the Commission finished the job in about six months, as the President of the Commission pointed out, but unfortunately the Rules of Procedure was in another home and the second home was complicated a lot, and I must say, and that is why the Rules of Procedure, which is why it comes now after a long time on the agenda. So it doesn't seem that this commission, in a way, has been working slowly, but it's precisely with a lot of mara, with a lot of desire to make this Rules of Procedure as soon as possible and that, of course, we have a new Rules of Procedure. What Mr. Živković says doesn't necessarily mean it's complicated if it's wider. It can mean that it's being done, explained, explained things, explained things, etc. Therefore, everywhere we have faced in practice the fact that a provision creates problems, we have tried to define it in such a way that it, that it is understandable and that it is easier to apply it in Parliament's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17569	I would like to thank Professor Petar Kunić. Ambassador Zorić answered the words, so Milos Jovanović apologized, Miloš Jovanović then Zorić. Here's a colleague of Jovanović. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17570	So I'm going to ask a few questions, perhaps even objections to this Rules of Procedure, here, specifically in Article 10, says that an initiative to launch an immunity seizure can be set up by one of the foreign bodies, or at least one club of MPs. So, does it make sense now that some club MPs launch an initiative to confiscate immunity to an MP from any other club? Furthermore, in Article 102, point 2, it is said that the debate phases are being discussed. That the Commission is responsible for obtaining the opinion of the Directorate for European Integration on the coherence of the draft law with European Union legislation. I mean, the question is whether any law should now be delivered to the Directorate for European Integration, and it is also not regulated, is not said what if the Directorate for European Integration does not respond to the Commission's request. Also, the remarks to article 141 say that a club of MPs or at least three MPs can launch an initiative to vote on non-trust of the Council of Ministers. I think it's three MPs, I think it's too high, because I can always find myself, not esteeming anyone three, to say, three irresponsible MPs who, every time I say, can outline an initiative to replace the Council of Ministers, so I think that's, that's too much in this article. I would also ask the question, I don't know if we can do this, whether we have the right, to take some sanctions against those who don't attend the House sessions, and especially the committee meetings, because this is what you see, Mr Lagumdžija, every time, I'm sorry that he doesn't come in the morning, the cameras shoot him, and then he goes away, I hear that he's not even in the commission sessions, so if we can, I don't think it's business, means whether I can take some sanctions against those who don't come to the college sessions and I think there's one thing that's a little bit of the principle of fellow Živković, the question is whether the committee in charge, I don't think it't even be regulated by this past rules, I say, as well with this, whether the committee can lead the debate on the bill, if the Constitutional-legal commission finds unconstitution. It seems to me that it has not been defined in any of the members of either the last or this proposal of the Rules of Procedure. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17571	Thank you. Mr. Vinko Zorić has his word. Let him prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17572	I have a proposal for one conclusion at this point, but before that I would say it's not good to give some grades, which we've heard here at the expense of another home. Nor do I agree that we here say that they're complicated, they've made things difficult, and I also wouldn't want them to say that we, or the commission outside our home, took it too casually and that it did it quickly. Let's drop those grades. The people's homes have their powers, we have our own, it's done in the words of the Rules of Procedure, and we are where we are. I suggest the next conclusion. During the calendar year, the House of Representatives has two meetings, from 15 January to 1 August and the second autumn from 1 September to 15 December. In the period from 1 September to 1 September, i.e. from 15 December to 15 January, extraordinary meetings of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina may be convened. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17573	Thank you very much. Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić, i.e. Ljiljana Milićević, then Muhamed Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17574	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, you see, I wanted to suggest, so esteeming the work and what we have ahead of us, also listening, carefully reading and listening to the remarks that could be heard here, there were technical ones, there were potentially undefined things, vague. My proposal goes in that sense to suggest that we extend, to find the possibility of a business to extend this commission phase, where all of this here was a word, amendment to its suggestions once again, to get this text back to the House in a better version, and also, here's the opportunity for Mr. Avdić to continue to hang out a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17575	Thank you. Mr. Moranjkić, have Mr. Križanović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17576	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, I was one of the members of the Commission who worked. I have to, it is necessary, however, to point out that this commission has done extremely well, that it has done its job in record time, and I would not agree with the finding because this is not giving negative points, as my esteemed colleague Zorić says to another home, but the fact that the rest of the time has been eaten is exactly in harmony with that home. It's not this, why is it, I'm not saying now that it's a black spot, maybe, objectively or for some other reason, but I'm interested in what I want to ask, and that's me a few days ago, if you remember this Parliament, I asked you where he is. If you look in front of yourself, you'll see that, as it was, three months ago, he came to protocol, where he's been here for three months so far not to come to the agenda, means that the slowdown either objectively or subjectively was not just a subcommittee, and we have an explanation why the subcommittee was, but we have no explanation why these three months were waiting somewhere in the office drawer or someone else's, and I'm interested in that. And, secondly, I fully agree, but I would perhaps rephrase differently what Honorable colleague Milićević said, these remarks directly, I think they are not principled, they are direct solutions. I would ask my colleagues, if the material that has been there so far has not irritated them, not to invite them to write something that they disagree with or what they think, to do it in an extended amendment phase, which should, however, be determined by time and, therefore, to supplement it without only giving criticism, because this is the law that this parliament should be governed by. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17577	Thank you very much. Mr. Jozo Križanović, here you go, so I'll say something for a while and suggest on behalf of the College. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17578	...members of this working group who worked on the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure and, of course, I would like to say that the working group has been very consciously and thoroughly discussing all aspects of the Rules of Procedure, trying, therefore, not to agree with the House of Peoples, and all with the aim of making our Rules of Procedure clear and that it is possible to rationalise the legislative process. As far as we have done so, I can say that we have had a firm and good will and intention here, but listening to these remarks today and respecting that the work on this Rules of Procedure has been carried out for more than a year and that at certain stages, I would say, very extensively, I would suggest with the best intention, respecting today's debate and these some concrete proposals and remarks, in order to facilitate the competent commission, which will appear in the second reading, that our working group sits down again to consider these proposals, in order to facilitate the work of the competent commission. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17579	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. Dear colleagues and colleagues, In the end, since no one is answering for a word anymore, I will abuse this chair in which I sit, not going out there on a pay phone, point out one very important thing when it comes to our Rules of Procedure. Our Rules of Procedure, i.e. amendments and additions to our Rules of Procedure, entail several important amendments. One of them is certainly common among these special commissions, the joint commission of both the BiH Parliament's homes, the special commission, which each of the homes has. I believe that the amendments, which have been adopted in the Constitutional and Legal Commission, these matters have been adequately resolved, but what concerns the effectiveness of the legal adoption procedure itself, I am afraid that it has not been properly resolved in the proposal for this Rules of Procedure. You know that so far we have had the practice of very often where there are no controversial things joining first and second readings. The basic legislative procedure implies that, after the Constitutional and Legal Commission, the law comes to the House, is adopted in the first reading, then goes to the competent commission and returns from the competent commission to the home for a second reading. One option has been left in Article 104(4) in order to connect two readings, but I fear that this provision did not cover all those situations, which should be covered in order to include in some exceptional situations or when we assess, we set up a mechanism, that we can decide in both readings at the same session. Article 104(4) states. If it is considered a small degree of complexity law, the House may decide to consider the bill in a second reading, without considering it in the competent commission – phase two. This is, therefore, an exception that allows the home to adopt laws in both readings at the same session, without considering the commission, but it seems to me that the provision has seriously narrowed down what we have so far had as a practice, and as far as the efficiency of our procedure is concerned. Therefore, I believe that the provision of Article 104(4) should be redefined and, in addition to cases, when it comes to the law of a minor degree of complexity, the reasons for urgency or any other legitimate reasons or any other formulation should be added, and I am asking that the members of the commission record this. I think the home should have enough width when it estimates it can go to another reading, so it doesn't be constrained by the rules of the Rules of Procedure. This is for me, the right to tell you, the most important change in our rules of procedure and for that, in my opinion, and, therefore, I had a need to say this. For including the debate on this subject, the College, of course, closely followed what you were saying and, esteeming that we need to have as much a high-quality Rules of Procedure as possible, that it has already been two years and that then it may be another month, if it has already been two years, the College proposes to you next. First, to assign our commission, i.e. a working group, led by Dr Avdić, to re-establish the meeting in the next 15 days, to analyse the stenogram from today's debate, and to take this as proposals for himself, and to allow the MPs to write to this committee within 15 days of today, if they have something in writing, and to write to this committee within 30 days, from now, from now on, 15 days after this commission, the Constitutional and Legal Commission, make up a new report and that this report comes here to the House. I think this is one correct proposal, which respects all that you've been saying and respects the need to get as much as possible a better rules of procedure as possible about our work. Please, I have a warning from the secretary, and I am obliged to say this, because I respect the opinion of the person who is taking care of whether we are acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and with the law, that this first part, when we are in charge of the commission, is not in line with the Rules of Procedure, because we have entered this plenary phase, but please, please. I then redefine our proposal and it will be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so that we can extend the amendment phase for the next 30 days and treat Article 95(3). The Rules of Procedure and to submit a report to the Constitutional and Legal Committee within 30 days. That would be the conclusion they'd vote on. And now a note that we won't vote on, which is understood. The amendment phase, therefore, as it extends for the next 30 days, implies the Commission's intervention and let the Commission define it by means of some MPs or whatever it wants, but in any case, let the Commission take note of this, and our conclusion in the Rules of Procedure can read this way. That we are opening a new amendment phase under Article 95(3). We are in charge of the Constitutional and Legal Commission to deliver a new report to us within 30 days, and that is according to the Rules of Procedure, and what will happen by then, I am asking the Commission to take an active leek, a working group, to take this stenogram and propose, if necessary through the MPs of the amendment. I'm putting forward a proposal for a vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives unanimously with 34 votes, with no votes against and abstentions and with a sufficient entity majority, has adopted this conclusion. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda. Ad.6. The proposal for a competition law, first reading by a respected colleague and colleagues, was submitted in a procedure on 24 February 2005. At the 53rd session, we adopted a request from the Council of Ministers for 42 procedures under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. You received the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission on 17 March O.G. The Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs shall be responsible. The committee's report was delivered on 12.4.2005. The report was sent to you with a call for this session. You saw the Commission adopt one amendment. There are no amendments in the plenary phase. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We move on to a statement on the law in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 31 for, 4 against, a sufficient entity majority, no one abstention. I realize we passed the law in our first reading. The college suggests that we say that we are going to another reading. Voted about whether we were up for second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 31 for, 4 against, no abstention, sufficient entity majority, accepted proposal to go to another reading. Let's go to another reading. Prepare to vote. We're voting on the law in the second reading. Vote now. 31 for, 4 against, no abstentions, enough entity majority. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has passed the Competition Act. So, both in the first and second readings and with the commission's report and everything together as it goes. You know what's been adopted. We're going to the 7th agenda. Ad.7. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the use and use of part of the property that BiH received under the Agreement on Sucession, the first reading of the Proposal for this Law, the procedure for this Law, the proposal for this law in the procedure was received on 11 February 2005, with the request of the MEPs for an emergency procedure under Article 104. The Council of Ministers' request was adopted at the 52nd session, related to the procedure. We received the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission on 17 March. The Commission for Finance and Budget shall be responsible. We received a report from the committee responsible on 6 April 2005 and was forwarded to you on 8 April 2005. Since the Commission has adopted three amendments to the Bill's proposal, we have one amendment in the planning phase, which Mr Nikola Špirić has submitted, he wants to defend at the plenary stage. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Mr. Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17580	I thank the chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, with the aim of making these funds received on the basis of a succession... try to define an amendment, I regret that the Commission has not adopted it. I'll read it. In fact, I have proposed a lot, but not in Article 3(1) behind the fourth indent, which would read, part of the resources to cover obligations towards legal and physical persons, approve and allocate entity finance ministries, according to territorial requirements, from the corresponding funds allocated to the third and fourth indents of this article, and the aim was to really use the funds as soon as possible, since, in particular, economic operators from the dedicated industry, these assets are missing. I regret that the commission had no understanding to adopt this amendment. So, it's not this amendment to some political content, it's about the need for economic operators to reach these funds. Behind the adoption of 43 of this amendment are some other things, which are not good, things that could be followed by court proceedings and processes, which is also not good, and that I am not opening a big debate concerning this amendment, I would like Parliament to be able today to support these amendments and the additions to this legislative proposal. If there is no understanding, I say, only what is the reason for defining this amendment, I am sorry I will not support the amendments and additions of this law, and despite knowing that these funds should be made available as soon as possible to those whom they refer to, the worst that the funds are in the accounts without being used. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17581	Thank you very much. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Beriz Belkić. Mr. Filip Andrić, get ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17582	The argument, which Mr. Špirić presented, is a good part acceptable to me. However, I do not know if Mr Špirić has carefully read the Commission's report and in relation to the proposed text of the amendment that we have practically done on the Commission. So what Mr. Špirić is talking about is done, but in a different way, and that way is what he looks at in the next. So $5,900,000, which is assumed to be based on available data from the lists, which were available in chambers, associations, etc. The Central Bank of the Council of Ministers, etc., is about the claims made by Mr Špirić, therefore, on the request of the military industry, on the basis of exports through this Directorate in Belgrade, etc. The Commission has defined itself, I am saying, because I am the proposing of this amendment, to keep this amount at the level of the Central Bank, or at the level of the Council of Ministers' account at the Central Bank, in order to double-check just once more. So it won't keep much, nor will it question the right to demand people to prove it, etc. But it takes two things to do. First, whether it is in the overall structure, I was checking it, whether in the total structure of the funds that we received on the basis of the succession, which are available, there are indeed funds based on that basis and whether the individual requirements are, therefore, valid, established etc., regardless of which entity of the company, i.e. companies are coming from. And, there are some other issues related to the legal status of privatisation, etc. dakl, we opened the space to the Council of Ministers that the 5,900,000 practically intended for what we were talking about, this is what Mr Špirić is about, and I'm talking about, once again, check and that, as soon as possible, when legal assumptions are obtained and obligations are met. I'm asking you, really, Mr. Špirić, it's really the same intention, it's just kind of open to the possibility of once again checking that no mistakes are made, nothing else. It's the same thing as an opportunity. Of course, you're going to direct distribution to entities. Let them check it out, etc., this concept goes towards the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance to do these things. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17583	Thank you. Mr. Špirić is looking for a word again. It's probably a replica. Here you go, or an explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17584	It's not a replica, me and my colleague Beriz understand each other. This isn't a replica. I'll just try to explain. The purpose of my amendment is not to let this happen. Since we and I know this amendment was initiated from the Treasury Ministry framework, or finance. No, my amendment, please, it's come to me to suggest what you are. But I didn't want to suggest it because I know that the intention is to challenge it, it's now a battle for the legal continuity of some companies and acts, as you have, say Energoinvest, which has a dedicated industry, is based in the Federation and in the part of the RS. The funds will be made available to Energoinvest, those unfortunates who also live, have been operating for ten years, in accordance with legal regulations will seek these funds and will not receive. I just want that possibility to break out. And that's why I'm according to the entity's territory. So I respect the principle of that division, etc. So there are no political dilemmas at all. But I know of that intention and I am against such an intention immediately to know. If anyone were to arbitration, business entities that do business, which, by law, are ten years old, and that's the battle for some legal continuity, which has long been lost, because unfortunately, the largest number of companies has failed. In that sense, just to be clear, I wanted us not to open up a big political story about it. But if it's to be opened, I have nothing against it, and that's why I said that, unfortunately, I won't support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17585	Mr. Beriz Belkić. Short, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17586	I assure you, Mr. Špirić, I publicly say that, after all these intentions these amendments do not have, to prefer and arbitration whether part of the Energoinvest is there or is here. They have ambitions and the intention to get the right address exactly the money and nothing else, and we're trusting this commission in the Sucession Agreement. So I think it's a neutral institution where everyone's represented in some way and I think she's going to do it right. And as far as I'm concerned, in the country BiH went to Doboj, went to the proposal, went to Sarajevo, I assure you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17587	Thank you. Deputy Finance Minister Mr. Kumalić. Here you go, after that, Mr. Andrić. I'm sorry, Mr. Andrić, that's what the Rules of Procedure is like.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17588	I just think I can solve this problem that Mr. Špirić thinks. To say, we already have information that the companies, which have split, have made agreements in 45 Famos cases and some companies at the Palace, the Energoinvest case and these drives in RS. The condition is that they make an agreement between each other on the allocation of these funds. And they've already done it, they expect these funds, so this problem doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17589	Thank you. Mr. Filip Andrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17590	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In principle, I cannot agree with this kind of spending of these funds, and I have the impression that the Council of Ministers has no strategy at all when it comes to inherited debt, or inherited funds from the former state, because I have the impression that it behaves from case to case. So, depending on how much trouble someone makes in the Council of Ministers or how much someone has their own strong one, who will come for the pay phone and say, here's the problem. I agree that these companies that have remained short sleeves for what they were doing across the state, but it seems to me that the continuing Council of Ministers forgets that citizens of the former state have been robbed from their own country and as far as they can see from these funds, mostly those funds that they ended up in the National Bank of Yugoslavia and blocked, are now subject to a succession and can be shared anywhere but returned to those whose funds. In doing so, I cannot accept this approach by the Council of Ministers and ask that these funds not be touched, until the Council of Ministers makes a debt settlement strategy towards the old foreign savings. We had a situation a month ago that we were discussing the request of students at the sale of military property, which is state property, too, built with expensive money and money from all the citizens of the former state and who we are a follower, so we had a sales situation by the entities, the inn seems to me to be state property wherever anyone arrives and can always be found for someone except for the old foreign currency savings, apparently, they keep short-sleeved. If they need old foreign exchange savings to come before Parliament, before the Council of Ministers, it seems that they are asked that this is the only way to resolve either by blocking border crossings or by blocking the Council of Ministers, which in my opinion is not good at all, then we will in this way send them a message, that only in such a way can they reach their funds, otherwise I do not see that way or the intentions of the Council of Ministers to finally approach the issue. With this, I propose that we reject this law, until the Council of Ministers makes a strategy and takes into account not only company demands, the requirements of the fired people, who now need to settle salaries, but also the others, to be made there, to say when and how and from which funds old foreign savings will be settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17591	Mrs. Milićević, question. Let Mr. Moranjkić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17592	So, the question is, in fact, the dilemma we had on the Commission. That's what's left unaccounted for. I'm sorry there's no Mrs. Sopta here, so what's this about? Companies, which are believed to be involved in their claims, have, meanwhile, experienced ownership transformations. This was done in different ways, so the claims they had been making, even, there was an assumption that they were treated, 46 in which they entered into the privatisation process, as the claims were treated by some company, says a colleague under alleged signs, whether those funds were included in the balance or excluded, led off-balance. Whom shall now be requited, to whom shall the Council of Ministers and how much money they shall give, therefore, many are left unresponsible and undefined. There's an obvious demand for them, and everything else has changed and the question of who we're going to degrade, whether it's going to come to the right place, and maybe somewhere there's workers sitting, who used to work in these companies, who haven't even been paid their job, and the new bosses are here. So this amendment has passed this way, but the dilemmas have remained and I have personally been present and now the dilemmas about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17593	Thank you very much. Will you respond immediately to the Ministers? Would you like some? We're going for the pay phone, Mr. Deputy Minister. There's nothing without a microphone. Everything that's said and not written down by those who follow us into a stenogram, as if it wasn't said. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17594	I don't think there's any need for these 5,900,000 to be discussed so much. There are data from the National Bank of Serbia now, taken over by the National Bank of Yugoslavia, and these claims are correct, I have exactly the list of companies, I could read to you what are the owners of these funds. The criteria further, this has already been resolved when it comes to companies from which more companies were created in the case of Energoinvest, Famos, etc. However, there will be problems with companies that have been privatised, if it did not have an initial balance, it goes in favour of the Agency which, as far as the criteria are concerned, will come again, the Council of Ministers will prepare for this, the Ministry of Finance will prepare, and the Council of Ministers will decide on the distribution of these five million and nine hundred. And as for those remaining assets, 65-35 are distributed and deployed by entity finance ministries.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17595	Thank you very much. That's it. Here you go, Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17596	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17597	You'll know for a while, of course, won't you?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17598	Again, is it? It's a six-million-dollar dilemma.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17599	Cell phone, where the cell phone rings. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17600	I don't have it. The dilemma, about these under-six million dollars, was at the beginning, and it's even more complicated, because for me, we have information, without documents, creating and drawing a dilemma whether we have that money or not. That's number one. So we need to know whether or not they are. Secondly, the dilemma is with me, to whom to give these funds. To decide to give two categories, against which I have no objection, and leave it at bay, under alleged signs, those who have created these funds and perhaps more categories, which, in my opinion, are fine before these, are unacceptable. So, first of all, we're sharing funds that we don't know exactly what they're for. We're sharing assets that we know exactly who they belong to and we're sharing funds with someone who, maybe by some justice, and I think they're number one, number two, they just belong to, not number one. So that division into these two categories, these three million and 600, I couldn't accept as a man. My proposal would be closer to that proposal, whether it's Mr Špirić or Dokić, that if we've established these ratios according to these ratios, let them wait for fate in the order of division and discharge as the Budget Act says. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17601	I don't have any more reports. Okay, who else is answering for a word? Here, Mrs. Majkić, after that, Mr. Jovanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17602	I would like to say that the Commission has been very serious about this issue and, since it has not been able to answer precisely whether there are funds and to whom they belong, except that they belong to the dedicated industry, it has not been able to make a different decision but to verify it again. I'm just saying, the specification only includes companies that are in the Federation, and that stands for the simple reason that they were mostly finalists in the Federation for the purpose of production, and RS with companies in the purpose of production was involved as a cooperative. So we don't have that information either. If it were to be shared according to the list as it stands here now, all claims are practically Federation firms. So someone has to verify the truthfulness of this data, especially from the aspect of the participants in these funds. So, if there's any funds and, secondly, who they're all related to. So much... who will deliver the official report.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17603	Thank you. Mr Miloš Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17604	Well, I want to say from all these discussions you can see that there was obviously a revote on the Commission which was not good. And what Mr. Belkić and Mr. Špirić led the debate, I suggest that, Mr. Belkić said there is no difference. I suggest that Mr. Belkić withdraw his amendment, and that means without now that I would be blackmailing. So, 48 if Mr Špirić's amendment is not accepted, we will not support amendments and additions to this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17605	... and that opinion and attitude as well as everyone else. Mr. Beriz Belkić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17606	It's not a replica, it's another effort to try to explain in the style of what we're on the commission, to tell you the truth, Mr. Jovanović, I didn't experience that we voted over, because believe me, I think we had a very correct discussion, I don't belong to those who check out how someone acted on a working body, did it jump out of some general commitment, etc. So, the motives I handled, using, of course, the data Mr. Špirić is talking about, not only from the Council of Ministers, but also from chambers and from the Central Bank, and your data and data from other people, Mr. Novaković, I worked with him on several occasions, etc. So we tried to find a solution that wouldn't cause injustice or dilemma. And it simply consists of five million and nine hundred, which we assume we don't have reliable evidence, that they come from demand based on purpose production, here, broadly speaking, regardless of cooperative, business carriers, etc. To separate them into a special account at the Central Bank. So they're not going to anyone, they're going to a special account at the Central Bank to make our institutions in BiH available, so the Council of Ministers. Decision and verification, what we are discussing, we have said that this is done by the Council of Ministers and committees here, rather than by that body of the Agreement on Sucession, which is most impotent and which is in some way available all the data. We can arrange for this parliament to receive reports, checks, etc. So that's the point, nothing further went into detail, how much in the Federation, how much in RS, etc. We wanted to make one position so we didn't automatically divide the funds into two entities. It's to keep at the state level and then to go and, even if you've read the amendments, someone intervened that the funds, which are not determined, are left of all 5 million and 900 are going to 35-65 to entities, as the principle of the Agreement on Sucession. I don't see, really, I don't see what's wrong here and, in which way it can be damaged, just be careful in the procedure, or anything else.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17607	Thank you very much. Mr Miloš Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17608	I want to tell Mr Belkić that I did not check how he voted, just reading the Commission's report, where it says, most of the Commission's members adopted the following amendments, means there was a revote while most of the votes were.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17609	Please, since no one's answering their words anymore, I'm closing the debate. We move on to a statement on the law in the first reading. Prepare to vote. 49 Vote now. 24 for, 6 against, 3 abstentions, enough entity majority, we passed the law in the first reading. I suggest we make it clear that we're going to another reading. Prepare to vote. We're voting on whether or not we're going to another reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 28 for, 4 against, 1 abstention, enough entity majority, we decided to go to another reading. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. Already, it's practically a debate in the second reading. We have one amendment, Mr. Nikola Špirić's amendment. Does anyone else want to talk in the second reading phase? Mr. Filip Andrić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17610	Sadly, what I was saying in the first - reading debate did not seem to give me support, or understanding of most of my colleagues. While we're in the second reading, you're free to suggest one conclusion. That these funds are directed towards the entity ministries, to oblige ministers to target those funds to the old foreign savings settlement fund. So the rest of the funds that are 65-35, after the settlement of these foreseen by the law on... the rest of the funds to be directed into the fund for the return of the old foreign savings.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17611	Mr. Andrić, I'm sorry to have to tell you this, it's practically an amendment to the text of the law. We can't reach the conclusions of the amendments. You have not applied the amendments in good time, and now we have what we have, we have the law, we have the Commission's report and we have Mr Nikola Špirić's amendment. What you're proposing is practically an amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17612	Then we can change in demand to extend the amendment phase, so we can correct it through the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17613	That's another thing. I respect that, we'll put that to a vote. Who else wants to talk? But, Mr. Andrić, I think there will be problems with the Rules of Procedure when it is an extension of the amendment phase, because the law was passed in the first reading. It could've only been done in the second one, but I'd have asked the secretary to give us some clarifications, so I don't always interpret the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17614	We've had cases like this, we've allowed it. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17615	We allowed it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17616	Only in the second part of the report.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17617	All right, all right, I respect that. Here, we heard, we had cases like this and we allowed it. Who else wants to talk? So I'll put it to a vote. I'm closing the argument and we're going like this. Mr Filip Andrić has proposed that Article 95(3) be applied. The Rules of Procedure and to extend the amendment phase, in relation to amendments only, not on the principles whether or not we get a new report from the committee responsible. You have heard Mr. Andrić's suggestion, I invite you to make a statement on this proposal. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 10 for, 15 against, 11 abstentions, the proposal did not get the required majority. We're passing, we've made a decision to go to another reading, that's what the decision was made. If there is no debate, we are now pleading on Mr Nikola Špirić's amendment. We're voting on Mr Špirić's amendment. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 12 for, 15 against, 10 abstentions, the amendment did not receive parliamentary support and we declare the law in the second reading. Prepare to vote on the law. Vote now. 18 for, 14 against, 5 abstentions, 17 FBiH, 1 RS, there is no majority of RS, the law has a general majority. If we agree right now, I'm here to agree to accept the law. There's no consent. We're going to a counter-vote. The college didn't achieve consent. Let's go back to the vote. Let those who vote against be prepared. Let them prepare and vote only those who vote against. Those who are in favour or abstentions are silent, therefore, only those who are against them vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. At the request of Ljilja Milićević, here is the complete club, please, I declare this vote invalid and determine a new vote in the second round, a counter-voting. I urge you to prepare again. It's the ones who are against it. Prepare to vote. Vote now. And I declare this vote invalid, prepare the charts, please. I ask the MPs of the RS who is against the law? Count the votes, 11. I understand, the Federation had an entity majority. I find that 11 are more than two-thirds of the MPs who come from RS and I find that the law has not been passed in the House of Representatives. We're moving to the 8th point of the agenda. 51 Ad.8. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the first issue of the Council of Ministers' Proposal Law, delivered to Parliament on 17 February 2005. Request for a procedure under Article 104. Rules of Procedure, adopted at the 53rd session. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 17 March. The Constitutional and Legal Commission is in charge. The committee's report was submitted on 1 April 2005. Your report was sent to you on 4 April. The Commission adopted the draft law in the proposed text. She found that the amendments were submitted by Mr Mirsad Ćeman, Beriz Belkić and Izet Hadžić, but all the amendments were presented in the context of the proposed amendments and additions, and were rejected by the Commission. At the plenary stage, we practically don't have any new amendments. I'm opening a debate on the law in my first reading. Mr. Finci, the director of the State Service Agency is here with us. I, on behalf of the House, greet him on my own behalf. Here you go. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We move on to a statement on the law in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 37 for, without, without abstention and sufficient entity majority. I realize we passed the law in our first reading. I suggest we make sure we're ready for another reading. We're voting on whether or not we're going to go to another reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 35 for, no problem, no abstention, enough entity majority, we decided to go to another reading. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. Mr. Mirsd Ćeman, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17618	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, you have received a report from the Constitutional-Legal Commission. I'm not going into any essential questions this time either, that's already said in the debate and the report itself. I have to admit earlier when we talked about those laws that went under article 105, we pointed to the obligation and the need to apply uniform rules of norm. Here, for a little bit, I would say self-critics, and because we didn't mention it in the report, but in fact in such a form the law came in, and I will only show this at this time by suggesting that this as a legal-technical correction be accepted that this text of the law, therefore, in a nomotechnical sense, in the final version, be done by applying the provisions of the single rules of norming, which says that it is nomotechnically, when intervened to the same member, in a number of positions, that is, therefore, technically, if it is possible to accept it in order, if it is not, let at least have it by the proposings and by the competent committees in mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17619	Thank you very much. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. This suggestion by Mr. Ćeman, it implies, is an obligation under the rules we have adopted on legal and technical standards, which apply to all institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as to Parliament. We vote on the law in the second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 52 33 for, no problem, no abstention, enough entity majority. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the first and second readings and the Law can be considered adopted in this House. Thank you. We're moving to agenda nine. Ad.9. Proposed by MP Mirsad Ćeman in the first reading of the draft law was submitted on 18 February 2005, with a request for a procedure under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. The 53rd session adopted a proposal. You've been given the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. The Constitutional and Legal Commission is in charge of reviewing this law. The report was submitted on 1 April and was forwarded to you on 4 April 2005. The Commission found that there were no amendments and adopted the proposal for a law in the proposed text. I'm opening a debate on the law in my first reading. Who wants to talk? Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17620	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, this time as legislator of the law, only to appeal that, given, especially, that the debate on the committee responsible has been held, that there have been no objections, etc. So, to urge this law to be adopted, to finally be in that part of the law on litigation, which defines the possibility of non-judicial dispute resolution. So it allowed it to be done in the way this law allows. The law is very precise, if, therefore, in due course the association of mediators beyond the existing one appears, it will simply be possible to include it in the process, to say, of providing this type of specific services. So, I urge you to finally resolve this issue, because for a long time these ideas have been withdrawn through Parliament and simply, in the truth, an important and significant possibility of non-judicial dispute resolution, and there can be no expression, and some research in concrete cases shows that this is a very effective way of saving, in the interest of economic operators and others who are being disputed, so that by adopting this law today, Parliament would take a step forward and that direction.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17621	Thank you very much. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. We move on to a statement on the law in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 27 for, 2 against, 2 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority, the law was adopted in the first reading. Since there are no amendments, I suggest we go to another reading. We're pleading whether we're up for second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 30 for, 2 against, 3 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. We decided to go to another reading. We declare the law in the second reading. If there's no raps. Prepare to vote, we vote on the law in the second reading. 53 Vote now. 29 for, 2 against, 4 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority, we passed a law on the transfer of mediation affairs to the Mediators' Association, proposed by MP Mirsd Ćeman. The law was adopted in both the first and second readings. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am now taking a 60-minute break. We're continuing 15 to 3. Use this paragraph for lunch, and as far as I'm concerned, it will be used for breakfast. Thank you very much. I'll see you 15 to 3. Break's over. [[PAUZA]] It took 15 minutes longer than we planned. We're going back to work. Please take your seats. We're moving to the 10th point of the agenda. Ad.10. Proposal for a Law on the Public Television System of BiH, with a report from the Commission on Transport and Communications, we adopted at the 52nd session a request from the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal on the Public TV System under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 17 April. The Commission for Transport and Communications shall be responsible for examining this law. The Commission report was submitted on 1 April and was sent to you on 5 April 2005. The Commission did not support the principles of the bill. By the procedure prescribed, we vote on a report by the competent commission, if the report is passed, the law has fallen. If the report is not adopted, it shall give the House a new deadline for considering and delivering a new report, based on new guidelines, which the House concludes. I am opening a debate on the Commission's report on traffic and communications. Who wants to talk? Mr Miloš Jovanović. Here you go, President of the Commission, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17622	Well, here, I'll try for a while. I would first like to correct some of the minutes, because yesterday on the Commission we found that, however, we made a mistake when we adopted the minutes, and this is the part where it says, the reasons for the rejection, that the HDZ Parliament Club in the House of Representatives has submitted amendments, which is asked by the Council of Ministers to provide all financial and technical conditions at the latest by 30.6.2006, to delete it, that is, to say yesterday when we adopted the minutes from last session of the Commission, so I would ask that this date, this deadline, which is given to erase it. Furthermore, without the intention of convincing what it says here, I would just like to say that the Transport and Communications Commission has really had patience and we have discussed this law three times, giving the possibility of some compromise and some agreement between the HDZ, Council of Ministers, OHR and the European Commission. Unfortunately, there was no agreement, and when we voted on the principles of the law, three MPs were in favour, three were against and one was abstention, so, given the way we voted, the Commission did not support the principles of this law. That's it. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17623	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? If no one answers the word, Mr. Filip Andrić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17624	I thank Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I am glad that Mr. Jovanović remembered to correct this in the light of the report, otherwise I thought to intervene, but before he answered. It's not just a date, it means it's broken, but here the essence of the reasoning is being observed, because we haven't discussed the amendments. So, the law fell into discussion about the principles when it was voted, and the truth is that the amendment that HDZ put in, where it enters into the principles of the law. However, we have not come to the debate on the amendments at all, there has been no debate on the Commission, but the principles and the law have been discussed, so the law has not passed the Commission's vote on principles. The reason is that, the fact that the law in truth does not fully respect the European standards that we are constantly calling upon here, European conventions that define the rights of the people when it comes to the media and, unfortunately, there is one people in a position to fight for their rights in this way, which are guaranteed to them by the highest European standards and European conventions, the Constitution of BiH and all other acts. With that, my proposal, aware of the fact that the law is one of the conditions of the Implementation Study, is aware of the fact that it is time, but that we have come into tea, because that the report is being adopted, that the Council of Ministers' law is back and that it is being corrected in the principles of the law, systematically to set a different law, and that we are going to implement all of this according to a maximum speedy procedure, because if we are now going to return to the Commission, as far as I can see from the debate already on the Commission, as far as I can see from the debate, so force on the Commission, force again on Parliament, on the House of People, and in the Court, and then in Strasbourg, then I don't see how we are going to achieve the deadlines drawn. I don't think it's in anyone's interest, and I especially don't accept qualifications which are said to be HDZ, that is, guilty of HDZ because it has submitted amendments. Oh, come on, please. It is in our interest that the law be passed as soon as possible, that all European standards be fully incorporated into it and that we are willing to give a maximum of ourselves on that trail to get to the law as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17625	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Sead Avdić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17626	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I think this law is of such importance, of such strategic importance to BiH, that it should not be easily thrown out of parliamentary procedure. So, I think it would be most appropriate for the law to return to the Commission level and that the commission is looking for a conditional compromise, if possible. And, my question is objectively, after several examples of such events, is how this Council of Ministers can pass the law and we can reject it in Parliament in the sense that 55 has been agreed politically, the Council of Ministers is a Council of Ministers made up of the simple authority of the parliamentary majority that decides in the Council of Ministers. And I'm really interested in how it's possible for the Council of Ministers to pass the law and that we have here a simple violation of the law and an exorcism from the parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17627	Mr. Nikola Špirić, please welcome the first deputy chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17628	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues, colleagues, MPs, I'm sorry I wasn't at the beginning of the debate, and here's the Šefik told me that there were only two discussions. I think it's an important legal project. In the first phase, I had two amendments and in a mutual conversation with fellow MPs, with experts working on the draft of this law in order to adopt the law, I addressed the Commission in writing and withdrew my amendments with the aim of creating an atmosphere to adopt the law. I am sorry, of course, that there is a large reserve on this law from the HDZ Club, but I am also sorry that the Commission simply voted against the principles of the law and is now objectively asking the question before Parliament, in which way we can get out of this. Two ways are possible. One is to reject the Commission's report, so Parliament can not accept the Commission's report and thus create a new situation in Parliament and continue to lead the debate and see how it can meet the requirements and get to this legislative project. This was also the goal of giving up my amendment and I think that we have the option to reject the Commission's report or to give it away, to reject the report and create a space for a new time in which this law will be discussed, and the worst message would be that today, for the second time, we reject the law and that we create an atmosphere that may unfortunately talk about a lack of preparedness to come to such an important law even though we all know one of the conditions for a successful conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Treaty. So there are exits if we want to create conditions for it. I have made a contribution, please, and others, this is not, of course, the time for anyone, any political group or anyone to count on any maximum, so this is also a project where there will have to be compromises, only compromises lead to the adoption of laws. So here I propose not to accept the report from the committee in charge, so that we can come to a new phase in which we can deal with this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17629	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. We are now, therefore, going to repeat, we are voting on the Commission's report. If the report is not adopted, then if the report is adopted, the law has fallen. If the report is not adopted, I repeat only what I read, Dom gives the Commission a new deadline to consider delivering a new report. 56 So, I call you, we vote on the Commission's report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, 6 is for the report, 27 is against this report, I find that the Commission's report has not received parliamentary support. I suggest, please, I suggest the conclusion that our commission be in charge, of course, Mr. Martin Raguž, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17630	So I won't be long. The results are clear here and the procedure is therefore clear. He's going back to putting together a new report from the commission. It is also provided that the Commission is given clear guidelines. And that's why I called in my word. So if we want to make a result, here's what I'm not going to do right now, and I'm not going to evaluate this in any way, either of these, or that, I think that the Dom would be correct so that we don't get back in the process to spend time, then people come into a position that if legitimate demands don't apply, they're going to pursue procedural constitutional and legal instruments, without a matter of reform, gentlemen. Reforms do not mean the loss of one nation's identity. At least they don't mean for me, and for me, the EU is not, on the contrary, European standards in European BiH. Do we have the strength to give this, now as Dom, to give the commission and such guidance to the Commission, Mr Špirić, and I will accept all that you have said if we have the strength. No one here called to obstruct and question. We had one lesson, obviously at the Higher Education Act, so now again. So I don't know why we're coming into the same situation, a key amendment that was fully in line with the European Convention on Human Rights here. That's my responsibility. And the demands that were ours were initially a year's worth. They say unreal, well, we won't limit it to a year, let's see when it's real, gentlemen. Let them say when it's real. If it's not a minima and it's not a fair offer for both the international community and the OHR, for everyone, then what am I talking about? And feel free to give them messages. We've talked a lot, we've spoken openly, we're looking for a minimum. And let the Commission do it in that report, nothing more, here. We've got a month for that.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17631	Thank you. Who else has? Mr Ivo Miro Jović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17632	Thank you, Mr. President. One of the meetings of our House, I said that when it comes to this law, it has great elements of racism. And that's what I want to be explicit and clear, that even a scheming isn't consistent with what's human, moral, and ethical. That's why I appreciate the high thinking of my colleagues when they support such laws. And today we're talking or we're going to talk about reforming anti-fascism. I know what I'm saying very well, and that's why I'm calling for reflection. I would have adopted the law yesterday, because what we received from the European Convention, only reminders, are being called into Špirić, by the European Communique of the Peace Implementation Board, which is crawling with lies when it comes to this 57 issue, says the Law on the Public Broadcasting System, which has been called into question mainly because of the amendment proposed by the HDZ. As far as this coalition and the European Community and OHR are concerned, we can only see it through this. You don't need to be smart enough to tell the conclusion, and how did I get to it? Simple. We've come to this point at the last session to pass the law. The U.S.A. broke the law. It doesn't say that anywhere. It wasn't about the amendment, but we're guilty of this because someone tipped it off. I'll say it again, because this is very important. Last time in this hall, when we discussed this law, the U.S.A. broke the law. It's not here. We haven't discussed the HDZ amendments, the HDZ is guilty because it's passed the law, it's the thinking of the great OHR. Why? Because he wants to spend the division of BiH in two parts. It's a basic message and a basic summary of the work. Secondly,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17633	Mr. Ivo Miro Jović,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17634	Don't interrupt me. I beg you nicely.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17635	I beg you, I have to intervene here, these are hard words and heavy accusations,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17636	It's on my responsibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17637	That OHR wants
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17638	It's a lot harder what you've done now than I say.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17639	Please, please, mind the hard words. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17640	I'm a very polite man who has an 18-year-old school president. I'm going to speak very nicely, and I know what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17641	I'm not without school either.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17642	I'd ask if you were me. That I need to preserve the basic elements of life in this country and my children's imperceptibility, that I don't have the right to language, culture, tradition and religion. And you're okay with it. It's beneath the dignity of a man. And you're still interrupting me. I am proud to be able to read the conclusion of the Federal Parliament, both home committees, one of the only conclusions. The Joint Commission believes that public television service would retain in BiH should have one radio broadcaster with three programmes of 58 that would be broadcast in the languages of the constituent peoples of BiH, and this has been adopted on both the Commission and the parliaments. So one level of government thinks honestly and humanly, respects the Constitution in which they say there are three constituent peoples and explicits listed. 27.10. BiH has signed a Charter of Languages, which says I can read and I think I can paraphrase the European Charter of Languages, which says that the country is obliged to provide at least one television and radio house, or channel, in the language of the people. At least one, we're not looking anymore. It is the gentlemen of the European Charter of Languages. It can't be provided for us because there's a coalition on the stage that offends you, Mr. President, when you say it, I mean, it offends you, and it's clear as day. When Mr. Frano Marojević says that on one of the two TV BiH common TV channels, we think the common TV channel meets the needs of the Hrvat. Who is he to think on behalf of me and the people to whom I belong? He thinks he's satisfying. Now I'm supposed to clap. Well, I guess one nation of the 13th century is mature enough to create its own future together with these two nations in harmony, peace, and love, and not as opposed to the annulment of the elemental human and people's paradisaics. And he comes from the international community, he interprets here the Convention on Human Rights of Europe, inadmissible and embarrassing. We have a situation and OHR didn't worry about it, last year we got the answer, that the composition of national current television and radio, 2% of Hrvat. Did you hear somewhere that he asked the OHR why it's such a situation, 2%. No one ever answered that question. So many times we went public with that. The OHR doesn't care because he's willing not to have this 2%. There's a basic question. But we won't allow it, gentlemen, so we're still here, you can't bury us alive. This country and in this country, the Hrvat have been through 10 times worse than you've prepared for us. We'll take it. And this people will remain, I assure you, they will have every culture and right to their own language. But it's a shame that in the 21st century when you say you knock on the door of Europe, you're defending a people from speaking their own language. That's inadmissible. Especially those white-world hoistuplers who come here and want to make our hat that we're not here. I've got 25 papers here, I've got them right in front of me that allow me to do what I'm saying. 30 million-long federal television has, like, 30 million in debt. RS TV is working positively. Why? For this, for these gentlemen. This is a key question. Let me ask you a question, so he can answer in the replica, Mr. Špirić. In this mentioned communication of the Management Board of the Peace Implementation Council. This is what they say. The board of directors reiterated that Dejton clearly says that BiH's public TV system cannot have channels in one language. I'd like that wise head where she read this, to see that head from where she's gonna suck this. In one language, Mr. Špirić TV RS, what language is he in?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17643	Serbian, Bosniak and Croatian
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17644	It's only on the table and it'll stop if Bog gives, because that's what I want. Srbin must have a channel in this Bosnia and Herzegovina in their own language and they have it thank Bog here for 15 years, but they don't give it to me. And that's not good. When it comes to legal solutions, it's impossible to fix them, that's the point. This proposed text of the law is impossible to fix, so I don't know why we're taking it back to the commission stage. Whoever gives consent to the composition of the tv system is gone. One is a 59-session session in Sarajevo, one in Banja Luka, waving. That's the basic reason, and I'm gonna call Mr. President now, interrupt, and I'm probably gonna get back to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17645	Thank you. Mr. Špirić, replica. Have Mr. Vinko Zorić prepare himself. The replica has a Mr. Beriz Belkić, too, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17646	Not a colleague of Jović.....this wasn't a replica call, so I answered the line. It is true when two broadcasters are concerned that TV RS is more organized, more well-ordered and that it operates positively. It is not more arranged because it is Serbian television, but TVRS and its citizens. There's going to be different stories here for a long time, and I don't see any rational reason to break something that's arranged, something that's positive. There's a question why there's no power to settle you're losing. So, I don't mean to defend this national story here, and I'm not a man who defends and deprives any people of his own language. So I'm not really defending it. But it's very difficult here to reduce the right to seek your own rights. And I don't think that's what HDZ's looking for. And I think we need to create time and atmosphere, talk and find the best possible solution. And when I spoke, I did not deny the rights of the Hrvat, but I said that the report was rejected because the law fell, that new times were created, and that they were guided, that they should be spoken. Whether it will come to a new proposal, whether it will be a better proposal, whether it will be worse, everything will come back here before Parliament and I have really not given it to a sharpened political situation, I don't think I should defend TV RS, it defends its results. It is impossible, ladies and gentlemen, for a giant emitter in Sarajevo to produce worse results than that television that was created the way it was created. And I congratulate here, I use the opportunity to manage RS TV on positive results and I look forward to the Federal TV saying good results and to solve these problems in a game of good results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17647	Mr. Beriz Belkić, replica. Have Mr. Vinko Zorić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17648	So my replica is not on the argument Mr. Jović is entitled to and it is his democratic right to express his vision and experience of certain things. However, I answered to replicate for two reasons. Namely, Mr. Jović, when you say this law is full of racists,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17649	Mrs. Majkić, please turn that off, please turn off your phones in the O.R. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17650	..you are in some way directly saying that all of us here who in some way support this law or in most of its solution, are in some way racist. Mr. Jović, think about it, so you say the law is full of racist solutions. The law did not fall from Mars, Mr Jović, but the law is the result of work, structure and this Parliament and the Council of Ministers, etc. We're part of the people who create a law that has racist elements in your opinion, and then we're kind of racist. And come on, hold on to those things. Next, you say that your future of your children etc. For the people of these here, etc. She's been questioned. Why Mr. Jović? Who forbids you to speak as you wish? Who forbids you to go to school as you wish, etc.? I really ask you, with a lot of your right to make arguments, to make demands, etc. Don't insult people. We are neither fascists nor racists, nor are we men who deprive the right of anyone. As far as I'm concerned, the law never has to be passed, if you don't need one.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17651	Replication response, Mr Ivo Miro Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17652	6.11. In 2003, this act we have here was created by the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the prime ministers of the entity. Mr. Pedi Eždaun, 11. The 11th writes that a meeting of state and entity communications ministers should be reached. Find me a Hrvat among these six men. I repeat, the Hrvat did not participate in this rear is the shape it has. The coalition is inadmissible against Croatia, I am talking about. And that's why we're here, I see I'm gone. My child can learn language in school and on television. There's nowhere else to learn. If it's not possible for one nation and the other two people have it, why would it bother you if I said it openly? Two people have, a third nation doesn't. And now, all of a sudden, she's talking to me about how I'm boiling water. Excuse me, gentlemen, have a look around. I invite you to do everything possible to make the law acceptable to all sides here, to all three peoples. What's wrong with that? Let us make a law in which all three nations will be satisfied and that this country has prosperity both at home and in Europe.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17653	Mr. Vinko Zorić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17654	I'll tell a story when this one, when the parties of the '90s were founded. '89. and '90. year, then one of Lagumdžijin's pals got me like that, if, a communist, uh, he convinced me that everything was fine except HDZ. Well, then he says, you know what Zorić says, it's better than HDZ. I say, well, all the programs are good, I've read 2-3 of these parties' programs, they're all alike, they're all good, but why don't you tell me what's better than HDZ? And he, of course, had no idea this, about the church, about the faith, he says because the HDS programme contained all seven of God's commands and he doesn't know there are 10. I tell him, well, Mate, there's three of them. He says, uh, and those three are among these seven. mir Jović is persistently trying to convince that the Croatian language is among the two. I'm looking for a half-hour break on behalf of the club. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17655	Pause until 4:00 p.m., at the request of the HDZ Club. The president of the HDZ Club asked for a half-hour break, please, Mr. Zorić, do you have anything to say after your break? [[PAUZA]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17656	I'm in line with our conclusion is whether, asking for a break so that, because I didn't see from the proposed debates that this one might be able to glean some new tasks, or guidelines to the commission, so I asked for a break so that this one would see me, I expected the House would adopt whether, the report for us was a surprise and then we had a club meeting to take one of its positions, and here, I suggest that when it came back to the Commission, that I propose to the Komijiji on behalf of the Club some guidelines. 1. First, what I want the Commission to have as a guideline is the Constitution of BiH, the constitutional principle of equality of three peoples in BiH. 2. Human Rights Charter, 3. The European Charter of Languages, and the 4th experience of multiethnic countries in Europe and the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17657	Okay. Who else wants to talk? Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, may Mr Jozo Križanović be prepared, please go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17658	I thank the chairman. I've just been working on the thought that in some way maybe in some form of business, I don't know if it's a replica or what it is, but it was really amazing, I was caught up in a statement that the Hrvat weren't involved in making this bill, so I asked this one a little bit, and I asked who this proposal came from, so they told me from the Council of Ministers. Then I went one more step further, so this one, I found out the interrelationship and that even the active contributions were made by some members of the Council of Ministers who were interred is whether, although it sounds very ugly, which I mention here, but I really must say, Hrvat and members of the same party, so I can't figure out a bullet. In order to remove any ambiguity, I think it was very good when this, perhaps possibly some instructions, were given to attend the Commission by members of the Council of Ministers in the order of the Croatian people. A team more, there is a happy circumstance that the president of the HDZ is also a member of the Council of Ministers. I personally know that he has contributed to an excellent formulation of a member of this law that is before all of us and that we would remove such debates that really raise tension, cause dissatisfaction with various Members of Parliament, in my opinion needlessly indeed, to remove all the risks possible, that in the next report we have a clean report, of course we support all of this, especially what even applies to the Constitution. I even think it's extra, but that's if we need to step up, and here's the thing, if we need to step up to me, it's perfectly logical that we work in the 62 spirit of the Constitution, I think, because we all swore to work in the spirit of the Constitution. In that sense, I consider it extra. I mean, just like that. Secondly, here was the Convention on Languages of the European Convention on Languages, I just want to mention, as far as I know, this convention refers to minority languages, and I do not happen to consider Croatian people as such, but a constituent people in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17659	Thank you. Mr. Zorić, you have a need for a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17660	I'll be consistent. I thank my colleague Azra, for supporting these guidelines that I have cited. And I know that this is about minority languages, and I think when this Charter is read that in terms of the use and consumption of the language of the Croatian people it will offer more than the Charter foresees, so it is good to have it to give to the constituent people more than it is offered to minorities. So I'm that way, we haven't forgotten what that means. And since I don't like negative discrimination, I don't like positive. So I suggest, if I agree with my colleague if she thinks they should be members of the Council of Ministers of the Croatian People, then be everyone. We do not want discrimination either in a positive direction or in a negative direction. Therefore, there should not be members of the Council of Ministers of the Croatian People's Order on this committee if not all of them. I really want equality in every way.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17661	Thank you. Here, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović has the need to give a reply to the replica, please welcome Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17662	I will say that I strongly support this proposal of yours, but I will also propose to you, the legislator of the law that is before all of us and who has passed through the Council of Ministers, let the entire Council of Ministers sit there. I mean, it's even desirable, but this, why I suggested from the order of the Croatian people, just because they weren't away at the Council of the Minstars session when this law was passed. What's more, they voted for a proposal like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17663	Please, uh, let's get this over with, I won't deny it to anyone. Mr. Jović, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17664	Replica is according to counterpart Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17665	Go ahead. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17666	If you would look at my copy of the letter H. Proposed Law on the Public TV System, and the letter is H on the side. And the last four pages are on Cyrillic. You see that it's tied up and an intelligence expert can look at any of these co-workers, does it allow it to be a provocation? Permission granted. But it's inadmissible.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17667	Okay, let's not have an argument in the O.R.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17668	I'm sorry. I'm talking. I'm talking about what it means.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17669	Okay, thank you, Mr. Jović. I understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17670	I'm not finished. The reality of the replica to the colleague is that, in an explanation, it's 6:11. In 2003, they signed the Sporazu on the founding of basic principles for the public broadcaster system, chaired by the Council of Ministers and the prime ministers of entities, you know. Then he says, Mr. Pedi Eždaun wrote that it's 11:11. In 2003, how to reach a meeting of state and entity communications ministers. That's what I'm talking about. So these six people. One prime minister at country level 2 at entity level 3 the Minister of Communications is gone and this document has been going on from there. And that's why it's no wonder that one meeting here is proposed to be held in Banja Luka, one in Sarajevo, meets two sides, and that's why I said, the principle coalition on a non-discipline question. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17671	Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, respond to the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17672	First of all, I don't replicate. I really am an adolescence to anyone, and I'm replicating someone's arguments. So, if I replicate then here I guess Mr. Jović replicated something I said rather than me. Right? I didn't manage the material that you got, which can be technical and non-technical, I'm not going in. I'm honestly not even relevant to you because when I read, I don't know if, I concentrate on the content, so I don't know if it's Cyrillic or Latin or any letter. Really this, let's say sometimes, I notice that I get, for example, a budget instead of a budget, but I happen to notice. I'm not the person who's looking at what maybe you're looking at a step more for some reason. I concentrate on the content. Secondly, what I suggested was your statement that the Hrvat were not participating. So I wondered if it was really possible. And that's why I asked where we got this proposal because I know that there are more authorized promoters. One of the MPs may also propose a bill, any Council of Ministers, etc. And when I found out the proposal was from the Council of Ministers, then I went one more step further. Indeed, as 64 wondered, it was not by chance that the Council of Ministers in the absence of Croatian ministers passed a law that we have been discussing for a very long time in the parliamentary procedure. But I also suggest that we really end any debate, the more the matter will return to the Commission, the whole Council of Ministers, be in line with the Constitution, of course, as it must be, in my opinion, even the excess, in accordance with all the European statutes and conventions that regulate this matter and that we get a fully cleared proposal here, in Parliament, and that we no longer really hold discussions with such an increased tone and argument that we do not need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17673	Now, here, now, I think it's completely unnecessary for this, to further complicate things, I think we can bring this to an end, but it's obvious that people have a need, they want to talk, I can't stop it even though the right to tell you, I think we can move on, at least as far as I'm concerned about this situation. But here, Mr. Nikola Špirić, briefly asks for a word, after which Mr. Jozo Križanović, I know, sir, but he's looking for some sort of intervention, he's been discussing, this isn't his discussion, so he has an advantage, and you get ready for Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17674	Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief because I think we are today and I respect, of course, the attitude of all MPs, of all clubs, but it is difficult for Parliament to task its own committee to work in accordance with the Utava of the country. So, does this mean that it can make a decision not to operate in accordance with the Constitution. And it is the obligation of all of us to work in accordance with the Constitution. I ask you, therefore, that I am in favour of respecting everything that my colleagues have said today, and therefore a new deadline is given to the Commission and to sit with the Council of Ministers and with the European Commission and with all those who say that this is a condition and to come to the text of the law which will satisfy this. Now, don't let us tire ourselves out today, let's list all the European documents, so tomorrow somebody's gonna say it's not in line with this document, etc. So, a serious attempt by this Parliament to enter an active position, to get a law that we are all going to adopt, is almost certain if one people is not satisfied that there are little chances of getting the law and we are all aware of it. And we will not correct this with any conclusion of this paragraph but with the active relationship of the Commission that will seek a solution and in that Commission there is also the HDZ, and many political parties, and it will probably need more consultation to come to the overarching proposal. But it would be very strange to say, there goes the conclusion and we owe it to the Commission to work in accordance with the Constitution of our country. Here, that's all I'd ask you to understand. So impossible to offer outside the Constitutional Proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17675	Thank you. Mr. Raguž has a replica, does he?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17676	And I'm not voting for a conclusion, so just so you know. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17677	Please, Mr. Zorić, please don't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17678	I really think we should focus on the conclusions rather than reopen the debate. Here, but probably, Mr. Špirić, I don't know if you were here when some things were justified. So there would be no need for that conclusion, that things in the law are defined by principles and equality. So they're not this guy, that's why they're looking for it. So, I don't think we need any more floscules than to stick to whether or not they are, there's an argument, yes, it's not let the Commission see it and let them say I mean, it's logical to do that. And another thing, as the Council of Ministers has missed this law, in which the ministers of the Croatian people are, that is correct, so today we have brought down the Commission's report that we have chosen. So that's not enough argument if it's passed somewhere that Parliament doesn't have the right to say what it thinks about that law. Here.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17679	Mr. Vinko Zorić, replica too. Let us bring an end to this replica, not without consideration.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17680	I just when I thought that this fellow Azra gave the final word and that we should not lead the debate further, then my colleague Špirić and the treasure of the country that has him and thank him very much for not voting for the conclusion that I have suggested, because I like that he does not vote for that conclusion, when we want to provoke, uh, by Špirić, and by some others, the only guideline to the Commission is that he has to adopt the principles of that law and nothing more. So that's the point of going back and we haven't given any guidance, and that's the conclusion at home that if we go back to the Commission again, we have to give some guidance. I think, in that law, a lot of things I've read haven't been respected and that's why it fell into principle. And that, because we think that only this will change that some of the members of the Commission will change their opinion by then, or we hope, I thank the Commission for having its position as well as thanking the members of the Commission who supported the Commission's report. And I resent the members of the Commission who did not support the Report and their Commission. I resent it as a man. I'd say that if it were me. I would never change my mind from the Commission to the Parlaent, as nothing has changed in the meantime. Were those MPs trapped? Is that too short for that law in the procedure? I don't know what's going on, and by you, Mr Špirić, the only guideline should be to change the report on what makes me, which is, and you're about to, and today you've been full of this, praises about the antifascism resolution, I didn't talk about it then, I won't talk about it even when there's a agenda point. A poor country where an anti-fascism resolution should be made. I think that's what BiH means.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17681	Okay. Please, look, please,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17682	Well, they all have televisions in the languages of the constituent peoples and we don't. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17683	Please, I will now limit this debate over these replicas. Mr. Špirić, give me a minute please, you have 30 seconds just, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17684	My dear friend Zorić, here's because he's coming out to cheer him up, I won't vote for a conclusion because he begs me not to vote and I won't vote. I think when this was not adopted, the Commission's report that it was returned to the Commission to seek the best solution based on its discussions and MPs from the HDZ and the complete Parliament, not to repeat the report but to seek a solution. And I don't think the conclusions that are listed alone will solve the problem. It was all mine, and I don't think anyone with a high tone is going to scare me or convince me or because he's happy that I'm in Parliament, because we're not here to bestow on each other, but to pass the best state law. And I will make my contribution to every good law. And there's no need for anyone to get angry, but here's to make him happy, I won't support the conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17685	Thank you very much. Mr. Jozo Križanović has a word, please. Discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17686	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, after this vote on the Commission's report, it has been shown that this House is trying to give some Raguž to the Commission for an additional report. But I'm also embarrassed that here, the post-festum I'm talking about. I think we have approached a very hasty vote on the Commission's report. It would have been much better if we had opened this debate before the vote. But why didn't we open it? I think we make regular principles mistakes. We are removing the report from the agenda of a particular BiH institution if there is no rapporteur, or rapporteur. It is a very serious law that I will not now talk about why it is important, which for the second time is in this Parliament, in one fell. And there's no one in front of the legislator to at least try to remove certain dilemmas, I haven't heard him. I don't know, I'm sorry, for looking for suggestions, suspicions, etc. That no one will answer on behalf of the promoter, I don't understand. We were informed there was someone in front of the promoter. And please, if it is such a one, if it is one of the conditional ones, one of BiH's 16 conditions for a further walk towards the EU, what is the Council of Ministers' relationship to this. Perhaps a lot of these misunderstandings or dilemmas would be removed in one discussion with the promoter. In principle, I can't blame anything on these guidelines presented by my colleague Zorić. But are we in to say this, global, general direction, anything to help this future...? And I just think that a principled debate should have been opened unscathed, because in such a climate, there is really no right solution and without a proposing who must have taken into account both these conventions of the European and the Constitution, above all BiH, etc. Therefore, since this is all too late, I am also focusing again on the observation that there are no legislators, I can only say in principle that I support these guidelines and 67 how much it will help the Commission draw up a new report, I cannot do so, unfortunately I cannot contribute in this climate or in this atmosphere any concrete proposals. And, for certain reasons, I'm looking for a half-hour break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17687	One moment. Mr. Križanović, are you looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Club? Mr. Križanović, listen up, I'm not done yet. So I have a question for you. The question is, are you going back to your place, I'd ask you nicely if there was some order. You'll get a break, nothing happens past the Rules of Procedure, just please, you can't say I'm asking for a break and get out of the O.R. Well, wait, there's a procedure for that. He'll be out of the O.R. when I say get out of the O.R., please. Mr. Križanović, I would therefore like Mr. Jović to ask you to take your position, Mr. Kriažnović, to discuss the report of the committee in charge, I opened the debate and all MPs could say what they were thinking before the vote. There weren't many of these discussions, and therefore, of course, I can't be responsible. The discussion now, I have to give an explanation, opened after the need to define the conclusion and after the vote to which the guidelines should be given to the Commission. So, so much so that you have that in mind for the clarification, and now at the request of the SDP Club, I'm setting a 30-minute break and we're going to continue at 5:00. You can take a break. We've practically closed the debate. [[PAUZA]] Mr. Križanović, Mr. Jozo, please welcome Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17688	Indeed, in order and in an effort to really bring this in the best way, the end, in addition to what I said that we will support these guidelines that the HDZ Club has made, we suggest that given the delicacy of the situation and the sensitivity of the law, that, in addition to these guidelines, the Commission organises a public debate before the new report is defined. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17689	Okay. Is anyone else answering for word? Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, although the debate is closed. I expect it to be very short.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17690	Of course, um, I support what my colleague Križanović has suggested. I would only ask you to take care of the deadlines. In May, there's a consulting working body, so that the public debate and all that is done up, along with all these commissions, of course, uh, I just want to warn you on deadlines. And secondly, I find it particularly important to mention something. The Peace Implementation Council's Steering Board issued a statement on 7 April 2005, which specifically stressed that the Dayton Agreement, that it is clear by the Dayton Agreement 68 said that BiH cannot have a unilateral public radio service, or channel, because it would only strengthen the ethnic division and put public TV service in service of harmful political situations. I would ask, here, that both the Commission and the whole debate that will precede the final text of the law be taken into account by the rest of us and by a statement from the Management Board of the Peace Implementation Council.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17691	Thank you very much. If no one answers the word anymore, please welcome Mr Ivo Miro Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17692	When I elaborated this, when I was saying exactly what my colleague Hadžiahmetović was saying, and then I made a joke and said, just to point the finger where it was written. That's why I'm calling you Professor, I'm asking you nicely, I'm going to be very grateful, where does it say what it says here in the Dayton Agreement? You know, you find me in the Dayton Accords what these people write here, these here what they write, because they lied about it up there, and I think this is a lie, too. You know it's not a sentence that for the sake of the HDZ amendment, the law has not been passed. That's a lie. This is a line that lies. You know that the SDA didn't adopt, so how they lied, and this down there, what bothers them.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17693	Please, let us bring the debate to an end. Do you need Mrs. Hadžiahmetović to say something? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17694	I have a lot of confidence in the Peace Implementation Council Management Board, which is an integral part of the interrelationship and the Dayton Peace Agreement. I didn't happen to say, "Let's get this over there," so somebody discuss whether this is true or not. But, uh, apriorius, we don't doubt that it's incorrect so we can reject it. I'm just saying, since I consider this an institution or addressee very important, since it is a fresh statement, it refers to this matter, that the Commission has in mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17695	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have therefore returned this committee's report to the Commission after Dom has failed to accept it and now it is up to the Commission to give guidance. The first guideline should be the deadline. On May 18th, Mrs Hadžiahmetović, is absolutely right, and I hope that we all know here in the hall, is the date when the remaining one will assess the level of implementation of the commitments that BiH has made on the path of stabilising and joining the EU. I think one of the guidelines or one of the first directions, or actually the only possible concrete direction in this situation, should be that. It sets an important deadline for us to give the Commission to do this job. Today is 69 21. And I don't think that deadline can be longer than 20 days from today. We have also been thinking about a little longer than 30 days but given this fact, on 18 May as a date, I think the Commission should draw up a new report within 20 days. So that's a first. Secondly, I think that all of these discussions that we have heard here at the House today can therefore be subjected to one actual guideline or, under one group of these principles in which, therefore, it will be said that our commission should certainly take care of the Constitution of BiH, that is, what has already been said here. Then on the international legal acts of the European and world that regulate the issue of human rights, languages, experiences of multiethnic cabbages, that is, what is proposed by the HDZ proposal but certainly I think that the European Commission's views should be taken into account, because the European Commission is managing this process, the Council's views on peace implementation, and that we leave the Commission the possibility of assessing freely whether or not to organise it, be it a matter of the Commission, a public dispute as proposed by Mr Jozo Križanović. I think that in this way and one more thing, taking care of the debate we heard today in this House, the overall debate. So if we were to define these two guidelines, the first one with a 20-day deadline, and the second one, which should lead, which actually gives all of these elements that I've counted, then I think we could vote this conclusion. Here I am, therefore, proposing these two conclusions, the first one related to the deadline, and the second one relating to certain specifics which the Commission may consider to be general, which should be managed by the Commission, and they are related to the experience of multiethnic countries, the views of the European Commission on the implementation of peace, and that the Commission is left with the possibility to assess whether, within this time limit, it would be desirable if it could, but that the Commission should decide to organise a public debate. I think I'm actually offering you these two conclusions on the plea. I'd offer both of you right in the package, if you don't mind. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 31 for, against no one, a abstention of 2, a sufficient entity majority, I realize that we adopted these two conclusions. And we can move to the next 11th point of the agenda. Ad.11. The report of the Joint Commission on the alignment of the identical text of the Law on Postages of the Honorable colleague and colleague, the Joint Commission for the Consensus of the identical text of the Law on Postages, was held on 19 April and the report was delivered on 20 April 2005. You've received the Joint Commission's report in the materials this morning. You have seen that the Commission has agreed on the same text of the Post Law, by adopting 13 amendments. 70 The Commission proposes to the House to adopt the conclusion that it obliges the Council of Ministers to appoint a BiH Post Traffic Agency based in accordance with Article 10.4e of this law within 30 days of the date of adoption of the law. We are now pleading, in fact, on the Commission's report, along with this conclusion. I call on you to prepare for the vote, since this report has no discussion, this is an agreed report, as well as a proposal for a conclusion by the Commission, to make a statement, to the Secretary, is that right. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, with 32 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstention, with a sufficient entity majority, adopted a report by the Joint Commission on the alignment of the identical text of the Law on Post Office, which adopted the Law on Postes in this House and also adopted a conclusion obliging the Council of Ministers to decide within 30 days of the date of adoption of the law, is meant when it enters into force, and so is the House of Peoples, to determine the headquarters of the BiH Post Traffic Agency in accordance with Article 10.4e. We're going to the 12th item of the agenda, that's Ad.12. A report on the operations of the BiH Financial Institution Audit Office for 2004, the Audit Office submitted the report on 21/03/2005, you received the report. You also received today a report from the Finance and Budget Commission on the review of the Audit Office's report. You have seen that our commission proposes that the House adopt the conclusions set out in the report at four points. I'm opening the debate. Does anyone want to talk? I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. So we are voting on the report on the business of the BiH Financial Institution's Financial Audit Office for 2004, of course with our Commission's report. Right? Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives with 31 votes in favour, without votes against, with 1 abstention and with a sufficient entity majority, has therefore accepted the report on the business of the BiH Financial Refision Office for 2004 with the conclusions set out in the Report of our Commission in four points. This is how we ended the point on the 12th agenda. We're going to the 13th agenda. Her name is Ad.13. Review of the BiH Central Bank Report for 2004, under (a) and under (b) of the Central Bank of BiH Financial Report Is there anyone present here? We have people here from Central Bank. They're coming to the O.R. right now. Dear colleagues and colleagues, We received the Annual Central Bank Report on 4 April and the Financial Report on 31 March 2005. These reports 71 were discussed by the responsible Finance Commission and the budget of this House, whose report you received this morning. As you have seen, the Commission has also supported the Annual Report and the Financial Report of the Central Bank for 2004. In the Commission report on the Financial Report, the adoption of the conclusions contained in the Commission's Report is proposed to the House. I'm opening a debate on points a) and b). If no one answers their word, I'm closing the argument. We move to a statement on the Annual Report and then on the Financial Report. I urge you to prepare to vote on the BiH Central Bank Annual Report for 2004. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, we will now see, I think it is not unanimous, with 31 votes for, without votes against, and with 1 abstention, and with a sufficient entity majority, adopted the Annual Report of the Central Bank for 2004. We are voting on the Financial Report of the Central Bank of BiH. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives by a majority vote, with 31 votes in favour, with one abstention, with a sufficient entity majority, also adopted a Financial Report from the Central Bank of BiH. Just so you know, when we adopt this, we also adopt our commission's report. Thank you, dear colleagues and colleagues. Thank you to the representatives of the Central Bank who showed up here briefly in the O.R., we're glad to see them. We are always pleased when representatives of such a successful BH institution come here to Parliament. Give our regards to the Central Bank and I'll see you at some other time, when there's a problem with the Central Bank. We're moving on to item 14 of the agenda, that's Ad.14. A report on the visits made by BiH institutions in the area of defence and security with a proposal for sublimed conclusions and measures, the Joint Commission for Defence and Security Policy submitted the Joint Commission to the House on 6 April 2005 a report on the visits made to BiH institutions in the field of defence and security, with a proposal for sublimed conclusions and measures. The visit was carried out by the Commission in the framework of the regular activity of parliamentary oversight of the work of the defence security institutions. For the sake of the public, it will be stated that the Commission, as stated in the Report, visited first, 1. BiH State Border Service, 2. National Bureau of Interpol Sarajevo, 3. Mine-removing centre BiH and 4. The BiH State Investigation and Protection Agency. You have received a report from the Commission containing the conclusions and measures proposed by the Commission to the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly for consideration and adoption. 72 I'm opening a debate. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Adem Huskić, I would ask him to speak on behalf of the Commission immediately, I am there as vice-president, but I cannot do two jobs at the same time, so let Mr. Huskić say something about it, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17696	Thank you. I didn't expect to have a chance to speak on behalf of the Commission. Here you have the Commission's report, I think the Commission is doing very well and these reports are quite correct and I think the House should adopt what the Commission has proposed. This will, in a way, strengthen the position of the Commission and the position of these institutions that the Commission has visited. I'd just have one more mild addition, I don't think it's going to be a lot of work, and I think we're missing it. In addition to what the Commission has proposed, I would suggest that the House adopt a conclusion that the Ministry of Security should start making laws that regulate the area of these private security companies in BiH as well as the law on carrying, supplying and use of light weapons in private ownership.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17697	Thank you, Mr. Huskić. Does anyone else want to talk? Dear colleagues and colleagues, since I was a member of the Commission, I will only give you a brief statement of our commitment. So, we have visited and will continue our tour of BiH institutions and in order to see how the laws adopted by this Parliament are implemented and how the defence and security institutions operate. On that occasion, we detect certain problems, record them, and propose to the House to adopt them, and later, as the conclusions of the House, we deliver them to the competent institutions to follow this course. You have seen in the report during the visit of each institution, which are proposals and I call you now, this will be delivered to the competent institutions working on the implementation of the law, I call on you to implement, pardon the law, I invite you to, in addition to these proposals that you have in the Commission report and this additional proposal by Mr Huskić, I think that it can be accepted, we approach the vote. Prepare to vote. We vote on the Commission's report with proposals for conclusions, complemented by Mr Adem Huskić's proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17698	I'm in favour of a separate vote. One report from the Commission, the second proposal by Huskić, as a conclusion, because it is separate. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17699	If you cannot accept Mr Špirić, then of course I will suggest, then we vote first on the Commission's report with a proposal for a conclusion, and we will later vote on what Mr Adem Huskić is talking about. So, get ready to vote, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17700	It's a long way from the microphone.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17701	So we adopted, we adopted Mr Zorić, we vote on that material we got from the Commission without Adam's supplements. After that, we will try to include Adam's addendum in the vote. Here, please. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives unanimously, with 31 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstention, with a sufficient entity majority, adopted a report on the visits made by BiH institutions in the field of defence and security with a proposal for sublimated conclusions and measures by the Joint Commission for Defence and Security Policy. Thank you very much. We have an addition, an attempt by Mr. Adem Huskić to adopt this conclusion as well. I put his proposal to the vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 21 for, 6 against, 5 abstentions, FBiH 19, RS 2, we don't have an entity majority from RS, we'll leave the consent to eat, here's Mr. Špirić suggesting it. So, we don't have the consent to agree on that right now, so we'll leave it to agree later. We're moving to the 15th point of the agenda, that's Ad.15. A report on the BiH Election Commission's 2004 work, as you remember, was commissioned by the Constitutional and Legal Commission at the last session to discuss the Commission's work report and to submit its report to Dom. As far as I'm aware, the Constitutional and Legal Commission had this report on the agenda at the 20th April session, i.e. Yesterday. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered an opinion on the Election Commission Report you received. The Constitutional and Legal Commission supports this, so the report, and I think it's a good thing we gave this to the Constitutional and Legal Commission last time. I'm opening the debate. I'm closing the debate. Mr. Jovanović, please. I'm reopening the debate. Mr. Jovanović. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17702	You're in a hurry for the chairman. Here's a short yes, I know you're in a hurry all but here's a little bit, I agree with you, so it's a good thing that we gave the Constitutional and Legal Commission the task of, to, to, but what I want specifically to point out, and I think you'll all agree and what the biggest problem seems to me in the work of the BiH Election Commission are the electoral lists. I suppose it's in all municipalities so that we have people who died in the polls, we have people who are in America or some other states, that we have people who vote from one village in another village, so that happens and I say in my community was one of the problems that they were on the electoral list who died and it turns out when they were controlled that they voted. I don't know what it is right now to say the organisational link between the Election Commission and the municipal local election committees and the voter registration centre, and it seems to me that something doesn't work, and if I said something in that part of it, I think we could really take it with pleasure this, say the report. Many things the Commission has made in the proposals of its recommendations and I will not repeat it, but I want to point out one more thing. Of the current seven members of the Electoral Commission, this House has appointed only two. So, according to the Electoral Law, this House appoints an Electoral Commission of BiH, so we should say, here is the report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which means that we choose to say five other members of the Election Commission of BiH. But, I repeat, it seems to me that the biggest problem is the registration of voters and the work of polling centres in municipalities.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17703	I thank Mr. Jovanović. I didn't rush Mr. Jovanović anywhere, but I was just a little bit moved, so I was glad today that the session was in another stream and I think you know that you can get a word whenever you want because no matter what my haste, I'm fully aware that I'm hard to get anywhere, but we all have to get to where we need to go together. So, uh, thank you for this discussion. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think that we have a very correct report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission and we, when we vote on the Election Commission Report, will, of course, vote, which includes, of course, this opinion, on that report by our Constitutional and Legal Commission. There's a lot of work suggested by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and here, I'm closing the debate. I call upon you to plead with me on the report.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17704	Election Commission President still on voter registration
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17705	The Election Commission's report, Mr Jovanović, one of the conclusions of this, as it is called, I will inform you of this, we have formed a Paralament here 75 Joint College has appointed people who, together with the Council of Ministers and the Election Commission, will work on the innovation of the Election Law. One of the key things is the interrest and voter lists and the way people vote abroad, that's the thing that's already been absorbed when it comes to the Election Commission, when it comes to Parliament. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives with 29 votes in favour, with no votes against, and with 3 abstentions and with a sufficient entity majority, adopted a report on the BiH Election Commission's 2004 work, with the opinion of our respective Constitutional-Pave Commission. Of course, it was very good that we delayed this debate because last time I said that it would be a very ugly message and a very bad message that Parliament was reacting differently to the Election Commission Report, compared to which this House is the only one of all the institutions of the BiH state who has certain obligations when it successfully works in question. I hope this will also be an incentive to our Election Commission and that we, of course, will improve things concerning the election process in BiH together with the Election Commission. Thank you again, thank you to the President of the Election Commission who was present here. There was no need for him to take his word today, so I'll see you at some other time. We're moving on. We're going to the 16th point of the agenda, that's Ad.16. Report on the results of the Commission's work established to determine the circumstances of the arrest of Ante Jelavić, Miroslav Prce, Miroslav Rupčić from the aspect of compliance with the law of the prescribed procedure and the possible violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms of the Honored colleague and colleagues, you are aware that we have formed this Research Commission to which they have given concrete tasks. The investigation committee submitted a report on the results of the Commission's work. I will remind you that at the 39th session of the House, the Commission's report was discussed and after the debate it was concluded that the report was addressed to the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Security of BiH, who were tasked with tracking the debate that was held at the House's session of competent institutions asking for an assessment of the relations issues of certain parts of the government, and that after that, they would provide the House with an assessment of the data collected which the House would discuss and finally determine themselves according to the Report of the Research Commission. On 12 April, we received a submission from the Commission in which the Commission introduced us on its activities and on the findings it received in the acts of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Security, which we also provided to you with the materials delivered by these ministries to the Commission. We mean on the agenda we have a report from the Research Commission, so this report was received at the House on 9/06/2004, the following and forward quoted conclusion from the House, so we should finally be determined according to the Report. Since it has been a long time since the Commission's report was delivered to you this morning, we have re-delivered the Commission's report to you, so that you do not have the material to be declared before you. 76 I'm opening a debate. Here you go, Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17706	Reading the Report, Mr. Chairman, I have noticed and it is seen everywhere that it has been underlined, that one of the three members of the Commission disagreed with six of the eight points in the case of the arrests of Mr. Jelavić, Rupčić and Prce. I am interested in what was the member’s conduct, when he was fenced from the qualifications, or those conclusions?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17707	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Filip Andrić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17708	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, it is a little regrettable that today after about 15 months we are discussing this issue. Unfortunately, we haven't finished this before, but here's better now than never. As far as we know, Mr Ante Jelavić and Mr Miroslav Prce and Miroslav Rupčić were arrested on 21 January last year, and today it is 21st April, so round 15 months. We have done this report as the Committee and after the debate at this House, it has been asked by the two ministries of the Council of Ministers to show themselves about our report. Unfortunately, this has taken too long and we've been given a statement from the Department of Security and the Department of Justice. After that, the College re-deployed this commission to review this report, or to analyze us before, and then forward the College to this session. We did it. After the first answer from the Ministry of Justice, we could not reach a conclusion on any position, that is, the position of the Ministry of Justice whether it was a violation of the right or not, and we asked further for it, we sent a letter and asked for further evidence of them on, and asked for them to be concrete. However, after our re-examination, we did not get more concretely clear, with the fact that they refer us to international legal acts and also to domestic legislation, which means they did not even say that they did but they did not. The Ministry of Security has explicitly confirmed our observations, which we have stated in our report, and they indicate that there have been violations of legality during the arrest of the Lord mentioned. I would like to remind you that this report has been adopted in the House of Peoples. We worked together both committees, and here, given the fact that today has been round 15 months since the arrest, for Mr. Ante Jelavić, this detention still takes place, although not a single point of the indictment has been proved to him, unfortunately a new procedure under the impression on the side to allow for further detention in prison, which I do not know, and many absolutely do not stand. 77 I do not think that we have the right to close our eyes to those facts, specifically when it comes to Jelavić, these two have admitted their guilt, have received judgments, and in this part I draw out the meanings of the debate on Mr Rupčić and Prce, but I am only talking about Mr Jelavić. However, we have come to these conclusions, you see in the report itself, and therefore I cannot propose on behalf of the Committee of Additional Conclusions, but I am free on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ to propose the addition of two conclusions. And that is, to ask us as the Parliamentary Assembly, of the competent judicial institutions, to enable Mr Ante Jelavić to defend himself from freedom and others, to ask the competent institutions to raise the question of the responsibility of those who violated the law in the arrest of Mr Jelavić, Prce and Rupčić. I must point out, that BiH, or its entities, often submit a request to The Hague for guarantees that war crimes suspects, who lie in The Hague, are allowed to defend them from freedom, does not mean a rare case and has often complied with such demands. I really don't see any reason here for us to take such a request to the competent authorities of judicial BiH, and to enable Mr Jelavić to do so. After all, until yesterday he was the president of this country, 15 months in prison, and he hasn't been able to prove a single point of the indictment for the past 15 months, so my people, who we are state. For now, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17709	Okay. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. We move to a statement on the Commission's report, and later on, on behalf of the HDZ Club, we will apologize for these conclusions proposed by Mr Andrć. We vote on the Commission's report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 23 for, 1 against, 9 abstentions, a sufficient energy majority, I find that the House of Parliament adopted the Commission's report. We move to a statement on the conclusions of the HDZ Club, I just want to say as chairman of the House that Parliament's request, the question is whether someone will defend themselves from freedom or not is strictly a judicial matter. I want to warn therefore this parliament is doing it for itself and as the chairman of the dom, but I will put to the vote both of these conclusions here, one by one is it? No more suggestions we've concluded the debate, over. No, we're done. Please, now we have, we go with the vote, watch out, we have, we have finished the discussion, we have received a proposal of conclusions from the Commission and one MP, on behalf of the club, one club has proposed two more conclusions and we vote on it. And you can't have any more when we've closed the debate, Ljiljo. I have to go one time, I would ask you, Mrs. Milićević, I'm not really running to give MPs this word, but we're in the voting phase. All right, Mrs. Milićević, here you go. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17710	It didn't make sense to suggest a conclusion, I mean if you don't accept the Commission's report, here's the logic, I've really raised my hand, I'm sorry, I'm saying I called on Mr. Raguž, I had the impression that he was looking at me at that moment. My conclusion means, it goes in a sense, since the report is accepted, it is related to acceptance, not acceptance, and here it is said that there has been inhumane behaviour of one of the detainees, that this report, if adopted, is being referred here to the competent one, is listed at the end of the report, to be directed to the European Committee for Prevention of Inhumane Behavior Tortre, is about the Council of Europe Committee, whose people have recently stayed in Zenica, and they have been asking our commission to work on the old authorities, so they are the ones who are appropriate to see the conditions under which people are staying in prison, whether human or inhumanely treated them. In that sense, my proposal for a conclusion goes.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17711	All right, all right. Mr. Raguž, the replica is probably on my discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17712	I'd call it an explanation. It's not really my intention to replicate now. It's to get to the point where we set ourselves quality according to these proposals. The report we accepted, from the assessment of the competent ministries, shows that there was an excess of power. From what we've also heard, it means that it's 15 months of detention and that the matter is not yet legalized in a way that legally puts the full argument of justifiable detention in prison, so there are enough elements to ask for defence from freedom. And it's not that, gentlemen, at least my opinion, I don't want to pollute with Mr. President, it's not something Parliament shouldn't deal with. I will remind you of other democratic countries, the investigative committees, the debates of the public, many judicial decisions have been reconsidered and Parliament has played the role of the control, or control mechanism. We don't want to affect decisions, but we're sending one message that in this whole case, uh, that's one minimum where this home should be in that way, we didn't say it anyway, not in any way about the verdict or the arguments, but about the fact that the circumstances happened, how the further process happened, that it was minimum to seek defense from freedom.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17713	All right, Mrs. Azra Hadžiahmetov, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17714	Well, I thought I'd call it business intervention first. I actually answered the phone right away, Mr. Chairman, but you probably didn't register me. I am not sure that we have the right at all to plead on any proposal to invest in jurisdiction by the legislative authority in the jurisdiction of the judicial authority. I think that this one, we shouldn't give in to these, the suggestion of conclusions, I'm not talking about conclusions right now, they can be discussed, but the very content of the conclusions suggests in some way, mixing or in some way investing in the jurisdiction of the judicial authority. I'm asking you to think, can we even vote on it? 79
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17715	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I didn't accidentally say what I said, and I'm very well aware of the weight of the words I said and, of course, the moment I say those words, but I want to, I had an obligation to do it here, because no matter what, you'll get the word of Mr. Zorić, so no matter what we did today, my vote against the Report was not random, too. I just want to tell you that in this way, Mr. Raguž, let me run the session, I don't know, I don't know if Mr. Ange Jelavć is guilty or not guilty, and I don't know if he should defend himself from freedom or from detention, it's their job to know the judicial authorities. It's not our job here, and I just wanted to tell you so much, it's for a stenogram and it's for saying, the total moment that we're discussing these things. Mr. Vinko Zorić asked for a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17716	I just want to find out here that it's not a correct story for you, Mr. Chairman and colleagues of Azra, regarding our involvement in the judicial matter. We don't get involved in any judicial matters. And the potential of those, the constant fact that we interfere, etc. That's not correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17717	Okay, I'll answer you later. Mr Ivo Miro Jović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17718	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am really surprised that people who go to The Hague, accused of war crimes, how this interferes with the government in BiH in the Federation or the RS, where they got the courage to influence the International Court, then defend themselves from freedom. You know this well as a judge, that the Court of Justice in the Hague would never let those people ask the authorities and the authorities to let them go. And no one will characterise that request as a interference in the court's problems. The reminders, secondly, cannot specify the date recently, when the detention deadline for Mr. Ante Jelavić was issued, the prosecutor was asked to resume his detention. You know what the judge's decision is, there's no reason to be in custody. So that's what the court did, and what is the prosecutor looking for? He insists again, now looking for new elements, on another basis. Gentlemen, to keep a man where they're holding him, they're parallel to two processes. So when he stops for something he's not, then they put him on the other side. And you know why? To decide today the laws we are discussing at the expense of the Croatian people, that is the reason for his detention in custody. It's a basic element. And I also want to tell you, a number of judges are sociologists, they're not lawyers, they've never seen courtrooms in their lives, they haven't sworn an oath to this country where they want to judge and decide about our people, that's what we found on the Constitutional Commission yesterday, not prosecutors or judges. And you know where they get the pay? From their countries. It is a total humiliation of both peoples and peoples and citizens and peoples and BiH and all of such institutions. So, they haven't sworn an oath to this country, they want to be gods in it, to decide on the lives and deaths of people, they and prosecutors and judges 80 are not qualified for it, and they don't lay down for anyone, if you're afraid of gentlemen, say we're afraid. If you're paid by them, say we're paid. But tell the truth at least. You have to tell the truth, because it's only a matter of days before you're there. The Hag opened the victim's Hrvat, a year in the basement, the shoe pushed the food Blaškić, the private house lost sight, 5.5 got vision. Today in BiH, the Court of The Hague has opened, you know who's the first for them too? Ante Jelavić, has something to do with The Hag and, of course, he's in that court there, in that, so he opened that court and I'm also proud of it, gentlemen. At the time of the most difficult fate that has hit this country, and the most vicious events, of the six elected members of the BiH presidency, 2 Bošnjak, 2 Srbin and 2 Hrvat, none of the Hrvat are either the Indictee of The Hag, nor was he on the occasion of being there. In peace after 10 years, there are two members of the presidency in prison or at the door of the prison. Can you ask why?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17719	Please, we're at the conclusion stage. I would ask only briefly, therefore, Mr. Križanović asked for a word, so regarding the conclusions, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17720	I would firstly like to conclude that we have declared ourselves on the report of this investigation committee, an investigative committee that was meant to determine any irregularities or violations of the law during the arrest of Mr Jelavić, Prce and Rupčić. So from the aspect of law enforcement, regulations, procedures, etc. I voted for that report, too. Now, I think we've somehow brought a whole other problem to the agenda. I agree that this parliament should stand in the protection of the human rights of every man, every citizen of BiH and I will be... However, I also agree that Parliament has the right to seek information on resolved issues and even from the judiciary. But I'm afraid today we don't have any real and relevant to say the fact that we're going to conclude something today. Here's the next item on the agenda is the D.A.'s report, it can be problematicd, it can be asked, it can be asked for an answer, etc. We can ask the Court of BiH to possibly make sure that information exists whether, the process has been delayed, why the process is not speeded up and why it is possible to enable a man to defend himself from freedom, etc. But I wouldn't bring myself and Parliament together if we were looking for something based on it, something to look for without having enough arguments and enough arguments. Therefore, I am to discuss this but not today, and not in this form, here may be to reshape the conclusion in another form, to be asked by both the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of Information on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17721	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Sir, you're staying at your conclusion, are you, sir? We are voting on the first proposal of Mr Filip Andrić's conclusion that this house is seeking to enable Mr Jelavić to defend himself from freedom. 81 We vote on this conclusion. Prepare to vote, to allow Mr Jelavić to defend himself from freedom, to demand this home. Prepare to vote. Vote now. By 7, against 8, 14 abstentions, there is no entity majority, I find that this proposal has not received parliamentary support. We move to another proposal for a conclusion, to ask for the responsibility of those recorded in the Commission's report, and that they violated the law, so I understood this proposal as a conclusion. Prepare to vote. No, not Mr. Andrić's second conclusion. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 13 for, 5 against, 13 abstentions, there's an entity majority, this second conclusion we adopted. Sorry, sorry, sorry, there, no, no, it's okay. You're absolutely right. There's no Federation majority, so there's a general majority, there's not a majority of the Federation. There's no Federation 9 or 10. We're going to a counter-vote. I, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We're going to vote counter. I call upon those who object, so to prepare and vote. Vote now. 4 against the Federation, it is less than 19 and 20, and I realize that this report, i.e. this second conclusion, has received parliamentary support. And Mrs Ljilja Milićević's third proposal to deliver this report to the Commission, as it is called,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17722	... The Council of Europe for Combat means preventing torture, inhumane behavior, preventing it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17723	All right, here's the proposal you heard. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives by majority vote, with 26 votes in favour of, 1 against, 5 abstentions and with a sufficient entity majority, accepted Mrs Ljilja Milićević's proposal as a conclusion. This way, we ended the 16th point of the agenda. Moving to the 17th point of the agenda, that's 82 Ad.17. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, improving the material and organisational skills of the BiH Prosecutor's Office in 2004 and the state of crime in 2004 We have representatives of the BiH Prosecutor's Office here, I thank them. The BiH prosecutor's office delivered this information to Parliament on 17 March. The information was discussed by the draft Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy. You've received a report from the committee in charge. As you have seen, the Joint Commission took note of the information and referred it to the House for consideration. So, the House of Information takes note, of course, after the debate. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17724	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I won't be long. I think that the report is as standardly done as recently when we've considered similar to the last one, or the previous one is whether, a year, I'm just going to, and that's why I answered the word, point out here when it's a word, let's say criminal policy, although in this context it would be more relevant to a report that would not only be the prosecution because the courts are actually making judgments and the prosecutors are here to prosecute but since we've introduced a reform of criminal law by a new institute, then to that detail, I want to point out that provision and it's also about the jurisdiction of the prosecution. In fact, it's about the guilt agreement as a new institute, where, in part, I'm saying this because I've had the opportunity to listen to the public's reactions, therefore, related to the application of this institute. In fact, it happens infrequently, I don't know, there are no statistics here in order to say more specifically, but it is rare that an agreement between the court, the defendant and the Prosecutor's Office on the application of a general or special minimum in defining criminal and legal sanctions is reached in the present case. So, below the specific minimum of certain sanctions there are also professional but let me say, so public opinion that it would make sense in criminal policy, and also in terms of the application of this institute, when it is already applied for its own good, if anything, in criminal policy to go to a special minimum, and not under it. So I would, therefore, just by looking at it, really suggest that there should be an attitude and this body to use this institute, this is what this angle looks at. By the way, there are good suggestions here, a lot of indicators, and I don't have any other comments on this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17725	I thank Mr. Ćeman. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Vinko Zorić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17726	So I will repeat this, what we and the Commission had as an observation, so here in the Report is mentioned that, under Information 1 too, a proposal for measures and activities is proposed, and immediately under 1 it is said that it is necessary to propose the adoption of laws in the judicial and prosecutorial budget and to ensure that all holders of judicial functions are financed from this budget in order to create a higher degree of independence, independence of judges and prosecutors. We've also asked there a question of the justification of this, the chief prosecutor was on our committee, and he said it was better. Now, I've been thinking about it since that committee session, and I don't know who's better. We know that every ministry would love to have their own account, so it's gone, everything's in the vault, etc. That before all the schools, they were with their giro accounts, etc. I don't think that's good, that's how you centralize. I also saw, on page 25, that in 2004, there are 35 million, slightly less converting marks in RS, it seems to me to be economic crime. And, you see, when we read all this, then there are 22 million being mentioned through money laundering, etc. And when we are here discussing whether the advocate or the minister will be right, then we are thinking about 10% and we have come to that stage that wants to change the Constitution, because of 10% of this, pays up or down in BiH institutions. So, I don't see that one scale, and we've talked a lot about introducing it, that we're going to introduce order into all BiH institutions. I think that especially this first point, if we adopt this information, then I'm against taking measures like this. There's more grudges. I think that especially with regard to this measure, there is very little in this information that we do not have on the financial report of this body. So why don't we have a financial report on the prosecution's work. Did they have any money at their disposal? Did they spend it, how they spent it, etc.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17727	I thank Mr. Zorić. Who else wants to talk? I'm finalizing a debate between an esteemed colleague and a colleague. Prepare to hear the suggestion of a conclusion. So, we take this information into consideration, and I suggest that we adopt the conclusion under 1. that this information is being taken into account and that a stenogram from today's debate with the position of our Joint Commission, of course with the conclusion that the Information is being delivered to the institution, i.e. the BiH Prosecutor's Office, which provided us with this report. Prepare to galley. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly with 27 votes in favour, with no votes against and four abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, adopted the conclusion that the Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, as it is further called, has taken note and decided, with that conclusion, to deliver a stenogram from today's debate, to see what has been discussed here, as well as the Report of our committee in charge. Thank you very much. Thank you to the D.A.'s representatives who were here. Dr. Kunić wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17728	I don't think the state body can be a legal person, and it needs to be determined. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17729	Well, I think it's Mr. Professor, I think it's the things that are famous and the ones who interpret law, they're going to interpret it the way they should interpret it, with the conclusion, the conclusion is that information is being taken into account, and a stenogram is being delivered, so let's see what's been discussed here. We voted it out, I don't think we made any mistake thanking the representatives of the D.A. who are here and I'll see you at some other time, when it comes to other reports. Moving to the 18th point of the agenda, that's Ad.18. The Commission's proposal to consider the status of persons naturalised after the entry into force of the BiH Constitution until the entry into force of the Law on Citizenship of BiH Dear colleagues and colleagues, as you remember at the last session, has been delayed because the Constitutional and Legal Commission has not prepared its proposal to address this problem. We've already had a debate about this one time. The Commission held a session yesterday, we got a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission this morning, and in point 4 of the reports, you have the Commission's position. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Nikola Špirić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17730	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, this is the item of the agenda which, after such a tiring session, is much more serious than I think we're getting up right now, but what's here is.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17731	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17732	I will work for you and the public for the sake of this, remind you of what the Commission has asked Parliament to do and what response Parliament has received from the Commission. So, the Commission is asking that this Parliament be made clear in light of these circumstances that this Commission has requested your interpretation, whether the admission of these persons to BiH citizenship after the signing of the Dayton Agreement has a legally relevant relationship, whether the Commission can see the same persons as legally valid or not. So, a clear request was made by this commission to the state parliament, and I now remind you of what the Commission has responded, in particular the third paragraph of the response, to initiate the procedure for amending and supplementing the Law on Citizenship of BiH, and thus, through the extension of the mandate, the Commission for Naturalisation opens the possibility of reviewing each individual case in the light of relevant legislation, I remind you, the relevant legislation, under which the continuity of legal acts is fought in relation to the Dayton Peace Agreement, and here we have heard that the Dayton Peace Agreement is above 85 of all acts in this country, the provisions of the Constitution of BiH and the General Framework Agreement for Peace, which the Commission has put last. I think this is disabling the problem, that this will not help the Commission and it would be good for Parliament to come forward today. The Commission asked us to give an interpretation. Whether or not we will give an interpretation, regardless of what it is, but give this view of the Commission, it is on the trail and what the Council of Ministers has given, and I have to say with a view that this is a much more serious problem than it seems to us, I will vote against this report, and if there is a vote, I will say what I mean, of course, but if this is the answer, I think this is not the Commission's request from Parliament and the Constitutional Legal Commission, but that it is true that the interpretation, whether we have the strength, whether we are metriculous or not, if we are not, then we should say, is responsible for this and that, the High Representative for interpretation, etc. But this is, the answer is disabling the Commission's demands because here through this word, in this response, right through this word, and I have to say that I understand why it is so, the relevant legislation, because according to this relevant legislation, thousands of cases need to be opened today. So, there is no battle here what they say, about mujahedin, terrorism, little is there, there are other things under relevant legislation that will defend thousands of illegally acquired citizenships of this country. And that's why I don't think this is an answer, and here I am going to be against the Constitutional and Legal Commission reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17733	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mr. Beriz Belkić, then Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17734	I believe that the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, perhaps it should have given him the opportunity to say a few sentences, and I reacted not to take over the role of the chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, but Mr Špirić, your experience of this report, of course, is your right and remain on it. And don't accuse one working body of wanting to disavow this parliament. It really wasn't our intention. It's your experience.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17735	So I gave up my experience
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17736	I'm telling you don't live either,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17737	Thank you very much, Mr. Belkić. Mr. Kunić, Professor Kunić, please. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17738	Well, I was going to say, even though that question was both at Parliament and twice on the Constitutional Commission, it seems to me that this is not the conclusion. On the Constitutional Commission, we said we would accept the position of the Council of Ministers and were moving to think that legal norms were clear on that. And that we have nothing to interpret. And return it to the Council of Ministers to trust the competent authorities to look into the situation of taking appropriate measures. It seems to me that in that sense it was the conclusion, not this conclusion for changes and additions, this was made up entirely, amendments and additions to the legal rules, which is exactly how I was against this sort of solution to this thing. I mean, we're very tired, but there's a solution to this thing and we should have dealt with positive legal regulations. Return to the Council of Ministers who take care of the implementation of BiH law and ask the authorities to follow the law. I don't get involved in any, we said we can't do that, that the legal norm is clear, that it's clear, it's not unclear, and I don't know what this is really about, I can't figure out what this case is about. I can't figure it out. These are individual acts issued, and it is known who are the competent authorities who can undo those acts and I think we should go in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17739	Thank you. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17740	Thank you very much. I accept that it may have been instructed that I first came forward, but it is not a practice that, on behalf of the Commission, always and necessarily, any of the committees as competent commissions, come forward, and I did not consider it necessary to report immediately to this issue. Given that here in some way it is now being questioned and the credibility of the Report in accordance with what has been decided, I have to, whether or not someone has agreed to what the Commission has finally presented as their position, I have to give an explanation. I have tried the truth for the will to be explicit in the formulations at the end of the Commission's meeting in terms of whether it is a norm, whether the relevant legislation is clear or not and whether it provides elements for a different understanding. I must admit, however, that it was not within the Commission's willingness to make an explicit statement in this direction because, and this is a very important moment, the Commission at the beginning accepted the assessment referred to in points 1 and 2 of this report, which it will say regardless, it has been given an opinion from this dma but has therefore assessed that it is not competent to give legal opinions, especially not in the form of authentic opinions, and secondly, it has supported, therefore, legal considerations from the Council of Ministers act. My understanding of that decision was like that. Therefore, these views, in the form of a possible one, were followed by the addition of the Law on Citizenship, so that individual cases of course, depending on the understanding of relevant legislation, this one was resolved because during the debate and the Commission’s task was to take care of what was last time in the debate, given the applicable legislation which entails and the right to protection individually, etc. to simply, eventually acquire through additions to the Citizenship Act the possibility of individual examinations of this, and for each individual case of this, the adoption of administrative acts. 87 That was my understanding as chairman of what we decided. Therefore, it is not even prejudged here that it will go to mandatory changes to the Law on Citizenship, but simply that one of the possible understandings arising from points 1 and 2 of this report is potential. However, I must say, and as far as I'm concerned, this could be acceptable if this approach is accepted at all and if not, and particularly if there are doubts about whether this is crediblely transmitted as the Commission's position, let us then let the Commission make it clear again. I'm in line with how I understood this, that's what I signed. And I think that's it, that's it. If there is indeed a dilemma, then we will first of all address you, from the Constitutional Commission, sit down again tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, and see if that's it, that's it. It's up to the House to decide.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17741	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Kunić, let Mrs. Jelina prepare herself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17742	Yes, from these words, it turns out that the Commission had no conclusion as presented in the written material. I'd like to say this, that rightly there is one principle that lawyers need to know, which is that you can't regulate something that you're going to stretch backwards, that's harder or worse for the party. That's what all the lawyers know. So, as far as the regulation of these relationships, which would be worth 5,6,7, 8, that's a waste, that's the legal principle of one that's not possible. Nor is it possible to interpret a regulation that was worth seven or eight years ago. Therefore, it is necessary to seek a solution to the annulment of individual acts that have been adopted for the acquisition of the citizenship of the people who have acquired it. And in this direction it is necessary to act through the Council of Ministers and through the competent authorities and such a conclusion should be made by this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17743	Thank you, Mrs. Jelina Đurković, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17744	I'm not a lawyer, but it seems to me that here the Constitutional and Legal Commission has avoided giving legal interpretation, in fact, in Article 36 of our Rules of Procedure, paragraph 2, the Commission is considering issues relating to the legal system, electoral system, etc. implementation of international and inter-entity criminal laws, as well as other issues in the jurisdiction of the House which are not in the jurisdiction of other committees. So the Constitutional and Legal Commission could give its opinion on what the issues were for. And therefore, that's one thing. And the other thing is, if it's decadently standing in Annex I that, as it stands, it's not valid, so those laws that are, that are demeaning in that part that says, within 30 days, all foreign citizens who have participated as an army or I don't know in the military sense of leaving, it's unequivocal and I don't see why we would now at one point, insist on the continuity of some laws at another point not insisting on continuity, so here we are not consistent and I won't accept this. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17745	Okay, thanks. Who else wants to talk? Mrs. Mara Perkanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17746	From these discussions that came out of the address of Mr. Ćeman and Mr. Kunić's replica, this is where the question arises whether Mr. Ćeman, within the framework of his commission, has misused his position as chairman, as it stands out here that it was not the Commission's opinion. I want that explained to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17747	Thank you. Mr. Ćeman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17748	No... no abuse of position, I, as chairman of the session, and so, I understood that the Commission decided after a naturally difficult session, a very many legal dilemmas, which are objectively existing, and the only thing I can accept is that if this is really not what the Commission decided, then, and I called on my colleagues to write themselves specifically 15 days ago and not only to speak in general at the sitting itself, so that legal opinion and attitude should be said. No one did, but a very broad debate was held with such and such views and in the end, of course, I was able to get out of it what I understood was the Commission's position. So, it's not about any abuse, I have, and I've been saying part of that argument, about the last time, it's in the stenogram, although I haven't completely elaborated it, I have my own and legal understanding of the continuity of the rules, etc. However, according to the Commission’s position, which is particularly contained in points 1 and 2. is not relevant in this case in the way in which it is now trying to say here. At the very least, and this is also the point in which relevant legislation is spoken, or regulations, might be best said, and then the one who is really competent and not this Parliament would now decide to interpret the General Criminal Agreement for Peace in BiH as a military aspect that this EUFOR commander earlier today, the UMPROFOR, as they were already called, that is, the civil part of the Agreement, and what Annex IV is as the Constitution, should give the High Representative, so it says. And because of that dake, I seem to have spoken to me last time, but now I'm speaking as chairman of the Commission, we objectively as in any profession, we can have professional dilemmas. And, believe me, I've really pointed out, this isn't as legally clear as some do, especially the wrongdoers do. But, and if it's only about legal, professional debate, then let, that this, first of all, be admitted that it's not a simple legal question, and on the other hand, we can have different opinions at all. If there's a political debate going on, then it's a different matter. We would probably have been like-minded about this issue in political debate, but legally, it's not that simple. That's what I was gonna say. 89
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17749	Please, let's just talk for a little while. Thank you, Mr. Ćeman, I'd like to ask for a moment, therefore. Mr. Tihomir Gligorić, and then for the second time Mr. Beriz Belkić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17750	Ladies and gentlemen, what Mr. Chairman was saying, and yet in connection and what Professor Kunić said, I did not realize at all, that Mr. Kunić accused the Commission's chairman, but rather, that it meant one complex issue and in the spirit of this debate indeed and twice the Commission was sitting, we were able to make all of our active contributions, to come to a certain solution. And whoever eventually formulated those conclusions threatened to lose clarity, precision, in this case, and it happened in view of the complexity of the matter itself. Therefore, I believe that we can go in two directions or that, if in some way already through the debate has shown, that we should again declare the Constitutional and Legal Commission on this or another, it is another if someone does not want this issue to be resolved specifically in terms of authentic interpretation, then the House of Representatives can today, after this debate, say that aneks i means the Dayton Peace Agreement in this part when it is spoken of naturalised persons, is absolutely clear. And then, there's no dilemma and we come to the conclusion at this stage of the plea when it comes to the clarity of that norm. Since the problem was because we are the only right way to solve this by advertising the solution to nothing, because it can be done if the general interest is at stake. It can be said that the general interest in BiH is threatened by the visas of those findings in aneks I.. ili, the emergency abolition of the solution and then the procedure is known, it is in accordance with the current regulation. So these were all some dilemmas that we talked about on the Constitutional and Legal Commission. And, I mean, I would end up with this, so it would be good if or if we went to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, if we weren't to solve this issue now, given that it was reopened in the House as it was last time, so this way we would solve it or say that the norm is completely clear and let it be implemented,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17751	I understand completely, Mr. Gligorić, thank you very much. Mr. Beriz Belkić for a while, so let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17752	I'll take as long as I need Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17753	You won't, Mr. Belić, for as long as it takes, next time you answer the word and I beg you to be brief. 90
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17754	Let me see how you stop me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17755	Please,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17756	Let me see how you make it impossible for me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17757	Oh, don't you think so, Mr. Beriz?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17758	No, you don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17759	It really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17760	Now listen to me, please. So, Mr. President of the Commission, you should have told the following and the gentlemen of the Commission, to remind you. We unanimously concluded that we accept the Council of Ministers' opinion as the basis for solving the problem. So that's what we've been building our solution on. At point d) of the Council of Ministers' opinion, clearly stands, I will not explain it to the Commission, let the Commission communicate with the Council of Ministers or let it say, whether it can work or cannot work, not that I have the communication of Parliament to the Commission. Therefore, we communicate with the executive authority and at point d) it is nice to consider, that the Commission is obliged to consider etc. There are two ways. Ask entity ministries to repeal the solution if there is evidence and if it wishes to have the authority to annul the solutions, ask the Council of Ministers to do so through the form of amendments and amendments to the law or otherwise, if it is possible to authorise the Commission to repeal the solutions. And why would I, I ask that we make a statement about the Constitutional and Legal Commission report, with all due respect that someone doesn't like it, that avoidance is, that this is, that this is, I ask you from this home to plead as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Don't let him accept the House of Representatives, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17761	Thank you. Here, so it was short after all. Thank you, Mr. Belkić. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if no one is answering for a word anymore, so we have here the next situation, that this, this report that we had here, we have different interpretations of the members of the Commission regarding the content of this report. I think it's a way out of this situation, to ask our commission to deliver a new report to the next session, I think it's the only possible way out of this situation. And I'm putting this proposal to the vote. Prepare to vote. Please, Mr. Belkić, I have followed the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission right to tell you, I have followed you, and I know well what the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission has said. We have a report 91.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17762	I'm not giving up this report, I'm asking Dom to plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17763	All right, all right. So be careful, college will, looking for a way out of this situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17764	I don't know what the exit is, not the exit, I don't know if you've gone astray, if you're in trouble, I'm interested in the House's position on the report.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17765	Mr. Belkić, don't really let the two of us fight without need. First, I didn't stray. And I'm not wandering at all, I'm here in this matter and I'm fully aware of everything I'm saying. So please, listen. So I'm trying to get out of this situation like Dom, please, so from the situation, Mr. Belkić, in which, will you listen to me or will you speak? See what you can do. We can't do two at a time. Me, please. We are in a situation where individual members of the Commission say that what has come to a conclusion today does not reflect the Commission's position. Mr. Ćeman stood up and I said this is how I understood it, that this is the Commission's position, but I allow the possibility that this is not the Commission's position, the gentleman said. So I followed the discussion and now I'm just trying to get out of this situation. Here you go, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17766	As a normal phenomenon in this House, therefore, a subsequent mind or a subsequent memory or a subsequent understanding, and I respect that. Let these members of the Constitutional and Legal Committee be made known by means of this report. We have a report and so far, don't put in practice, until now every report by each commission has been made, signed and brought here. I'm asking you to make a statement on the report. Everyone has a chance if he doesn't like to vote against him.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17767	Okay, thank you. Mr. Ćeman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17768	In fact, when I said that, I only wanted to express my understanding of a potentially different understanding of how the Commission decided. I didn't say the Commission didn't decide that. I think it's out of the stenogram to get it done. This is not what I'm going to say to Berizu, the report doesn't state that calling to point d), c) what I know, because technically it wasn't necessary because it was contained in that sentence of point 2. etc. But that's the thing now, because we're really not this one when deciding, formulating it, precisely in a sentence and in a word. But my intervention was not in that direction that the report was not accepted or voted on. 92
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17769	Thank you, Mr. Ćeman, I understand, okay. No problem at all. So we'll put the Commission's report first on the vote, and then we'll make other proposals for conclusions if there's any need of course. We vote on the Commission's report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 15 for, 13 against, 5 abstentions, FBiH 13, RS 2, there is a general, there is no entity majority from RS, we have, you are not agreed to agree, you are not. Let those who are against voting prepare. Prepare to vote. Vote now. We have 11 from Republika Srpska, that's more than 2/3, so I find that the Constitutional and Legal Commission report has not been adopted. We move on to the proposal of this conclusion, which the College therefore has, to assign to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, to draw up a new report by the next session. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 25 for, on the contrary, 4 abstentions, enough entity majority, I find that this proposal was adopted by the College. And this is how we ended this 18th point of the agenda. Moving to the 19th agenda, that's Ad.19. The resolution, please note, so that is the Resolution, that is the motion for a resolution on antifascism, which is in accordance with Article 121. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, submitted by representatives Zlatko Lagumdžija, Joza Križanović and selo Bešlagić i, who we have today included in the session's agenda. I'm opening a debate. Here you go. Who wants to talk? Does the promoter want to talk first? Gospodn Križanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17770	So here, esteeming time and our work today, I really suppose that colleagues had time to read the text of the Resolution carefully and thank those colleagues who made the effort and gave a few amendments to this text of the Resolution. I just want to say that this is now becoming, to say, the proposal of this home, and we're going to say we agree with every well-intentioned correction that's been done here, but I'd like to ask that this is still a resolution on anti-fascism, that it's not about other forms of totalitarianism as it was a proposal and I don't mind, that either of us or Dom this adopts other resolutions that apply to other forms of totalitarianism, but today it's on the agenda Resolution on anti-visism as 93 an expression of our political commitment, to be a society of European states whose one of the fundamental values of anti-fascism. I'd love to, I don't know how we're going to work, but I think any of these colleagues who have amendments would be good to say, so we'll see how we fit them in, here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17771	Okay, thanks. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Molorad Živković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17772	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the SNSD Club voted today to include the agenda point, because we believe there is nothing controversial in the resolution. In fact, if we're going to go fair, even the Bundestag wouldn't mind this resolution. In any case, our amendment applies to only one part, to bring this session to a close, not to open big debates, to give historians and others in BiH who want to discuss it, and this amendment refers only to the exclusion of one part. In contact with the motion for a resolution, we have come to know that this amendment is acceptable. That's why we suggested it. So, the SNSD as a whole accepts this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17773	With the condition of erasing the OBLIG, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17774	No, on condition that the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17775	And the one who's looking to erase ZAVNOBiH from Resolution is it? Let me read it in public, just so I know, I mean, tell me what the point is right now. Mrs. Milićević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17776	Mr. Chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17777	Here's Mr. Živković's replica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17778	I hope this was this well-intentioned comment of yours and I really don't want this session to turn
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17779	Fully well-intentioned, just to notify 94.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17780	Here I would ask you, was he well-intentioned?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17781	Thank you. Branka, please, over here. Let's see who's next. Help me. Here's Mrs. Ljiljana Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17782	Now, given that we're already doing nine hours today, that we've done a lot of things, and we've done a lot of things like this on the edge of our nerves and missed out on doing it, I repeat what I asked for today, you didn't put it to the vote, that's the suggestion. So now we don't weigh the OVNOBIH, AVNOJ, this, we break the marks, put the dots, the two-points, we have a May 9th solemn session, both at home, that the College of ours, along with that College, will come out with one concise resolution that we will adopt together at the plenary session of both homes, to give it a solemn character, not now 10 hours later, exhausting and working here, to now get around the dots and cut. Here, that's my suggestion, I'd like my colleagues from the SDP Club to make a statement about this proposal, so we get a resolution that we're going to adopt at the plenary session on 9 May because that's going to be our agenda, too, so our commitment to a plenary session of both homes is going to be.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17783	Please, dear colleagues and colleagues, so we put this resolution on the agenda today. We have an amendment, therefore, to the resolution itself, so Mr. Ivo Miro Jović has submitted three amendments, the SNSD Club has submitted one amendment, I don't see who this is, there's no sign of man, I don't see, sir, please, not here, Mr. Zorić has submitted five amendments and what else do I have? Please, if it's for the promoter of this resolution, watch it like this, we've been discussing it all along when the next session is. We should be clear by 9 May about this resolution, we don't need it on May 9th. There will be a session on May 9th. And the College will inform you about that, but we certainly need to hold a session by May 4th at the latest, May 5th, according to our morning conclusions. She'll be right away if you know, or the 27th depends on when the College settles, or it'll be the 4th of May. Is it acceptable for the Proposer, then we need to make a consensus on this question, whether it is acceptable for the Proposer, since today we have been doing this, for a long time, that the Proposer, is talking to the amendment applicants, and that then the Proposer tells us what his definitive text is when it comes to the resolution. If it's acceptable for you, Mr. Križanović, I, uh, we decided not to go to the commission and we shouldn't go to the commission, if this is acceptable to you, so we're gonna go to 4th right now and agree that this will be the point of the agenda. Most likely the session will be the fourth most likely, but not to inform you yet, the one with complete certainty, because the College has not made a decision. Here you go, Mr. Križanović. 95
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17784	Here, we also have at this point an attitude that is acceptable to these amendments. For some of the amendments, we believe that nothing in particular improves, does not change, but again I say that if we went to avoid the word, anti-fadjism, then this resolution could appear not to be against anti-fascism but to some of the general values of whether it is. So, as far as the proposing is concerned, we can manifest ourselves today about all these proposals, and if the House decides to postpone this plea for the next session, which should be held as we have said 3 or 4.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17785	4th not 3.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17786	I would ask that some of this still be kept in some condition and that, however, it is said that today is debated, that the basic Resolution is supported but here we leave still the possibility of investing in some proposals by colleagues in order to improve this text. And to adopt this definitely on the 4th and 5th.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17787	Yes, thank you very much. That fourth definitely adopts you. Okay, thank you. Mr. Zorić asked for a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17788	I've filed five amendments, I agree with, like this, all five amendments are, not that it's not going into content but into economics and this isn't to mention as little antifascism as possible. If we're gonna do it in a row, I'm not afraid to dictate it in a stenogram. Instead, BiH and Bosnian-Herzegovina citizens are mentioned. I think it further writes the link between Bosnia and Herzegovina's anti-fascism with general and democratic, I say BiH's connection to the general and democratic commitment of modern Europe. Isn't that more economical? But you're saying there are three acceptable, I don't know which ones are not acceptable?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17789	No, no, it's okay. Mr. Zorić,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17790	You see, it underlines the obligation of all state authorities to protect anti-fascist values and European commitment by means of legal means, I propose that it be, by means of legal means, protecting the European definitions of the Bosnian-Herzegovina society and the state. I think it's also anti-fascist, these European definitions. You know what you wanted, I'd write a much better resolution, and this, no, no, I don't want to open an additional debate here right now. If the color resolution is, if it is on multiple pages, then you should write it on a higher page. I went here with all five amendments to economics. 96
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17791	Thank you. Dear Mr. Bešlagić, please, dear colleagues and colleagues, I think Mr. Križanović's proposal is acceptable, so that we can reach a conclusion here under 1. Let's say that the text of the proposed resolution is basically as Mr Križanović said, acceptable, 2. To hire the promoter, in communication with the applicant of the amendment, to grind and deliver a defined test with what he accepts, which he does not accept, we will declare and then, to get it by the next session at the latest and the next session will not be safe, will be held until 4 May, most likely on 4 May. I call on you to make a statement on the proposal of this conclusion proposed by Mr Križanović, whom I have now defined. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives with 30 votes in favour, without a vote against, 1 abstention and with a sufficient entity majority, has adopted this conclusion. All I'm asking is your attention. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we've exhausted the agenda this way, we've exhausted it this way, you've got nothing after, almost, what?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17792	.. Mr. Chairman, if I were to know if there was anyone in this room that could... how would a group of wanderers around this building get us into a coat? This really went beyond all the measures that we don't have anywhere to leave our coats, when we leave it, then,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17793	Dear colleagues and colleagues take your position. Just a little attention, I'm not done yet. Mr. Kunić, wait. So I have some other things to tell you. First, then, the next session, the regular session, will be held most likely, do not take this for granted, but note that date, May 4th. On May 1st, it is Orthodox Easter and I am taking the opportunity, since this is, we will most likely not have a session until then, to congratulate all Srbin Orthodox people by performing the Easter holiday. I would like to congratulate all BiH citizens on the 1st of May, an international labour holiday because it is May 1st in the meantime. Please, please, please, please, don't mess with these things, these are serious things, I'm not saying them by accident. Please, the motion for this resolution to act in accordance with this as agreed by the amendment's applicants that we have text for May 4th and the Constitutional and Legal Commission to do their part of the work according to the report returned today by May 9th. In this way, we have completed the 55th session but Mr Zorić is asking for only one small intervention, so be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17794	On behalf of the HDZ Club, I would like to tell my colleagues from the SDS Club to convey our greetings and wishes to a colleague, Novaković, who has been operated, for a quick recovery and return.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-21-0.u17795	Yes, thank you very much. I announce that the session is completed at 18 hours and 50 minutes.
