ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4221	Dear envoys, representatives of public information funds, I welcome all present, and I am opening the 40th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. A total of 10 attends the session. Of which, 4 from the Bosniak people, 3 from the Croatian people and 3 from the Serb people. Mr. Goran Milojević, Branko Zrno, Ilija Filipović and Hilmo Neimarlija are absent. The first three are on the official route, and Mr. Neimarlija has justified some other obligations of his absence. Before moving to the agenda, I would like to inform you that on the basis of Article 4(1)(a) of the Constitution of BiH, Articles 70 and 8 of Amendment 60. The Constitution of Republika Srpska and Articles 161 and 165 paragraph 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, the "Official Messenger" of Republika Srpska No. 50/01, the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, at the 23rd session held on 18.03.2005, decided to appoint Ms. Ruža Stojanović as ambassadors from Republika Srpska to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH instead of Mr. nadet Radović. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the House of People, the Parliamentary Assembly, assumes the duty of making a solemn oath. I ask Mrs. Ruža Stojanović to give the oath. I pledge to be conscious of my duties.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4222	I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4223	Respect BiH Constitution
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4224	To respect the BiH Constitution,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4225	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH 2
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4226	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4227	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4228	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4229	I congratulate you. Here after this little solemn act, I want, of course, the successful work of our new colleague. So, here we go. For the 40th session, I propose the next agenda; 1. Answers to envoy questions and envoy questions, 2. Record of the 39th session of the House of Nations, 3. Information from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the request for a feasibility study, 4. Report by the Joint Commission on Efforts to reach an agreement on the same text of the Postal Act, 5. The Commission therefore considers that the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 6. An indication of the House of People's request by the Council of Ministers to consider the BiH Law on Railways by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 7. An indication of the Home of the People on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, in accordance with the hastily procedure in accordance with Article 100 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 Proposal for a law supplementing the Penal Code of BiH, Proposer of the House of Representatives, 9. Giving consent to ratifying the Consulate Convention between BiH and the Republic of Turkey, 10. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Republic of Italy on the mutual regulation of international road transport and passengers and freight, 11. Report on visits made by BiH institutions in the field of defence and security, with a proposal for sublimed conclusions and measures, submitted by the Joint Defence and Security Policy Commission, 12. BiH Human Rights Ombdusmen's special report in connection with complaints from parties related to the work of the BiH Council of Ministers, the co-operation of the BiH Council of Ministers with BiH's human rights ombudsmen, 3 13. Information on export licences issued – imports of arms and military equipment, 14. Review report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2004, 15. Proposal for a candidate for the Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications and 16. The fill of Serbian people's seats instead of Nada Radović's on the committees of the House of Peoples. As you can see, from this agenda that you have received with these calls, we have ruled out the item number 8 of the House of People's apprehension on the request of the Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of BiH by a hasty procedure. This is why, because this same point didn't pass at the House of Representatives, according to our conclusion, we're going with a proposal like this. So, let's postpone it for one of our next shadows. Here, this is the agenda. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Mr Tomislav Limov, please welcome Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4230	Thank you very much, Mr. President and Mr. Speakers, esteemed fellow envoys, respected representatives of the Council of Ministers, the international community, professional services and other institutions of BiH, ladies and gentlemen representatives of public information funds, I am, of course, the first to speak after giving a solemn oath, once again I congratulate my colleague and express my hope that we will never again be in a position to have a single House of Peoples. So let this be an introduction to one practice, that a certain number of women are always found in the House of Peoples. I am in accordance with Article 114. The Rules of Procedure of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Custodial of BiH referred to our college of the motion for a resolution on anti-fascism and asked it to be one of the points of the agenda. I see, of course, that's not included from the proposed agenda. Given the fact that the House of Representatives has determined that, on your next or your follow-up, you will start your sessions, considering this resolution in the same text, I would suggest that the College consider whether we will have until 9 May, so the days of victory over fascism, another session, if we will, then I don't mind being in that session. But perhaps it would be more appropriate to see with the kolegij of the Second House that we adopt one of these resolutions at a joint session of both houses of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which will be held as much information as I have, on May 9th. Well, if we can make a statement about this one, one conclusion, I'd like to ask the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4231	Okay. Here's what we heard. Is there anyone else that wants to do the agenda, or comment on this proposal? So, Mr Limov and you yourself seem to be in one dilemma whether to go with this point today or not, and here I will inform all those present here that it has been agreed on by both four colleges, both home of the Parliamentary Assembly, so that the plenary joint session is held on the day of victory over fascism, 9. 05. And I think maybe it's a chance to get rid of this, too. However, this should be further agreed because, as you know, it is happening again that both colleges need agreement, of course, and then accepts both home. But I mean, it would be a shame and that day, probably that session wouldn't have other topics than this topic, and then maybe it would be a chance to adopt this anti-fascism resolution. Here, if it should be on the committee, I don't think it should, because it's actually contained in our work and one definition, but here. Mr. Limov, you say again whether you want us to put in a point or go with the initiative to adopt a conclusion, that it is our proposal to be the agenda point at the joint session of 9.05.?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4232	So let me suggest that the conclusion be so formulated that in the event there is no agreement, at the next session of our home, this will be the point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4233	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4234	So, I think it's clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4235	Thank you. Secretary, is it procedural that it's okay for us to adopt such a conclusion? Okay. I invite you to come forward with me on this proposal. Who's in? I think we're clear. You can vote. I'm sorry, we'll do it again. Vote now. Well, then I invite you to still plead in that earlier, safer way. Who's in? Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted the conclusion that, therefore, Mr Limov's proposal to run for the plenary session of the Antifascism Resolution. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? There isn't. Before we move to the agenda, I would like to remind you that at the point under the number, we are 5, 9,10 on the agenda of the 39th session of the House of Peoples, that we have had them and that we have taken them down because of the non-preference. At the 39th session of the House, the clubs of the people agreed that the items of the agenda would not be considered unless the applicant of that point was present. I remind you that the rock of the 38th session of the House of Peoples adopted the next conclusion. The House of Peoples asks the Council of Ministers to ensure the presence of representatives of the committees and sessions of the 5th People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Otherwise, if a representative of the Council of Ministers does not attend the meetings of the committees and meetings of the House of Peoples when considering a specific item of the agenda, that item of the agenda will not be considered. In view of the conclusion adopted at the 38th session of the House of Peoples, and the agreement reached by the clubs of the people, at the 39th session of the people's home, at today's session, we will not consider those points of the agenda whose proposer is not or is not present during the debate. Here, this was one note, a reminder briefly. Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4236	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, the Honorable Attending, I would suggest that we extend this note or attitude to the College with a likely identical letter to the BiH Presidency. Since we are considering very often materials at the House, for which the BiH presidency is also formally proposed. And, this time in the last session, we even downloaded two, two bilateral agreements, one with Italy, the other with Turkey because only formally no one showed up or showed up last time, so I would ask, so I understood that it was the Council of Minsitarians to mention it. I think that either in the same text or the same text relating to the BiH Presidency, given that it is often a proposal for material, or documents that we are considering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4237	Thank you, here's an explanation, we have an answer here. Secretary, please read the memo from the BiH presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4238	I just want to inform you that a letter has gone and the BiH presidency has indicated that a separate agenda item will not be considered unless there is someone on behalf of the promoter. And, accordingly, they informed us that for these two agreements this, will be from, just a moment, representatives of the Foreign Ministry, the Ministry of Communications and Transport, whose competences are these two agreements.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4239	Mr. Čengić, please suggest,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4240	I understood this view of the College as the principled position of the College in relation to all issues concerning the Council of Ministers. I think that in the same way, 6 must make a letter to the Presidency and inform it of the same things, in principle. And now, as the Presidency will react, we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4241	Okay, thanks. I think that our meaning of the conclusions should only be complemented by the word, or word, is the BiH Presidency. It's all about the same thing. Can we just take this for a moment, realize that it means it's just a brief addition? We can, thank you. Here, that would get us on the agenda, first point, Ad.1. I call on the envoys, who wants to comment on the answer to their envoy's question? The answers were received by Mr. Limov and none more than our last session. Mr. Limov, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4242	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues, I will remind you that at our 25th session held on 25 June 2004, I asked the next parliamentary question to the Presidency and the Council of Ministers; why until today, the conclusion of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was not realized at the 12th session held on 30 September 2003, which is asked the Presidency and the Council of Ministers to install the security policy of BiH in the text of the document the reform solutions in the field of security policy and thus the document of delivery to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for adoption? Since I haven't received an answer to the asked question for five full months, I have asked the Presidency and the Council of Ministers again at our 33rd session, held on November 23rd, 2004. I received a reply from the BiH Presidency's Office on 12 April 2005, so 13 days ago. This is obviously not the response of the Greek Presidency and was signed by the head of the cabinet of the chairmanship of the presidency. Of course, should you at all point point out that you who have read this answer have been able to conclude that I cannot be satisfied with the answer for the following reasons; First, the conclusion of both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, not until today more than one year after the deadline given by Parliament by the Presidency and the Council of Ministers, has not been realised. This document – The Security Policy of December 2002 is the same today, and we are all aware of how much things have been done in this segment so that it was a commitment and does not say, not too difficult for it to be updated. Only on 9 February of this year, the presidency tasked the Council of Ministers with forming an inter-resor working group to upgrade and update BiH's security policy and on whether the 7 working group was formed, until what has been done is done, the head of the Kabinet in response to me, of course, does not say anything. Out of response, it has been made known to the Parliamentary Assembly that it adopts a defence policy, but that it is therefore excluded from the relevantness regarding BiH's security policy. It is clear to me from this that whoever wrote this response does not have the elemental knowledge of the issue of defence and security policy or the role of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in those segments because it is well known that defence policy is only one part, one segment of security policy. It is well known that no country without a proper security policy, which must be in line with the state in that country, has a chance to join NATO's Partnership for Peace programme and we certainly want to join that programme. And I can only imagine the reaction of NATO experts if they carry out an inspection show today that they will undoubtedly work on such a document as BiH's Security Policy, so that they too are surprised. Because they certainly follow what we do and they know that we have results in this segment of practical results that we have achieved not only by passing legislation, but also by implementing what is written in our regulations. I personally think that this is how the presidency works, or does not work. I do not believe at all that members of the Bureau, their advisers, that I am not talking about ministers, because the Council of Ministers has not responded to me, do not know how to update security policy. And I can't believe they're so lazy that in a year and a half I can't do a job that a good expert needs to work for as many hours. So I believe that this is intentional negativity for some tactical or maybe that would be even worse, some strategic reasons. After experience with the BiH Presidency so far, I have almost lost the will to ask them more, of course I expect that the Council of Ministers, or this inter-resor working group, will do its job in haste, to install in this document at least what we have done so far, and of course, I expect an answer from the Council of Ministers since here, I welcome both the prime minister and I believe that this response will respond. Thank you very much for your attention. I was something wider for reasons that I was the only one who got the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4243	Let's move on. Any new questions? Mr. Boško Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4244	The Honorable Presidency, respected colleagues, esteemed members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, submiting you all in front of the Club of Serbian Delegates, I would like to refer a delegate question to the Council of Ministers and the Regulatory Agency for Communications. Actually, more questions. One, one. When will the CRA begin to respect the letter of the Agency for State Service No. 0534247 of 8 April 2004, which responds to the request of the CRA for legal interpretation of the status of 8 employees in which it has been defined that employees of the Agency are obliged to comply with the Law on State Service and therefore also paying classes? How long will a senior associate without a college degree have a higher salary than the chairman of this house? 2. According to issue number 2 of the CRA meeting of 8-10.2004, on which a frequency-allocation strategy was carried out, it is stated that despite the formation of another network, the frequencies will stop, so I ask what is the matter with them, for whom they are being kept, because this directly harms Budžet BiH? 3. I ask that the national structure of the employees, the number of employees of the Srv, the number of Srbin in the management jobs, the qualifications of each employee in the Agency, and the amount of the salary of all employees by name? 4. When will one domestic broadcaster, since we know that OBN and BH PINK are foreign, so when will one domestic broadcaster receive frequencies to cover the entire territory of BiH, and when will the CRA stop depriving this country with its decisions, because it is known that a media cake from BiH is now going to other neighbouring countries? 5. I ask that this home, together with the House of Representatives, the Council of Ministers and independent candidates from NGOs, form a committee that would review all the permits granted for the broadcasting of the programme. Namely, you remember that I asked this question much earlier, namely, the analysis shows that 20% of the candidate TV stations in the Federation of BiH and 40% in the RS lost their licenses, when it comes to television and 9% in the Federation of BiH and 38% in RS, when it comes to the long-term license competition. I'm asking you here, based on this analysis, are frequencies all three peoples or just one? I am responsibly saying, as I come from the media, that all these cells were about the same in the field of competition in terms of the programme, finance and technology because they were three basic parameters in the process of obtaining long-term permission. Thank you very much. I'll deliver the questions to the secretary.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4245	Thank you, Mr. Đoko Pajić answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4246	Gentlemen chairman, fellow delegates and respected representatives of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I have one question for the Council of Ministers, respectively, for the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH. Namely, why is it not possible to establish a commission to investigate the crimes committed in Sarajevo in the period 1992-'95 and the decision of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in January 2004? Namely, although I was not a delegate at the House of Peoples at the time, but according to some of my information from the information funds, I have information that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly held at the meeting of both homes in January 2004, a decision on the establishment of a Commission for the Research of Crimes committed in Sarajevo in the period 1992-95. The BiH Council of Ministers is in charge of the implementation of this decision, which has not yet been formed. 9 According to some of the knowledge again, the Council of Ministers is, in conclusion, whether I do not know what, and assumes such an obligation to do so. Lately, in the media and in the public, it has started with terrible manipulations with all victims and their backgrounds, on the one hand, information about victims is coming somewhere between 7-10 thousand, on the other hand, information is coming back that these victims were not there, there is one association, the truth that is in one of the "Glas Srpski" lists last week published a list of 2452 victims with a note that in the next few days that this list will be extended to another around 2500 victims and that this is not the final list, that will be heard and you know that they are starting to crack through information, accusing one side, etc. I think it's precisely out of respect for all the victims and their families in order to avoid such manipulations and crackdowns through information means, it's necessary to form one such commission and finally come to the truth, and all I'm saying is, in order to avoid manipulations with victims and their families. I don't know if I can possibly get a certain answer right now, but I'm going to have this question anyway.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4247	Mr. Prime Minister Terzić is present here, if you can, it's usually written down, so, okay. Well, then, here's the usual way of writing, so this time we'll be consistent. Mr. Limov wants to speak, please welcome Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4248	Of course, it's a shame to miss the prime minister's good will to hear the answer. Our Rules of Procedure predicts that, however, we have heard the attitude of colleagues. I'll take advantage of the occasion, ask two interrelated questions. Of course, it will refer to the Council of Ministers. 1. Why, even though the deadline set by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives expired at the end of February 2005, the Council of Ministers did not present to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH the programmes for the protection of the socially most vulnerable categories of population after the future application of the Law on Value Added Tax? 2. Will the Council of Ministers respect the conclusion of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the first place, and when will MPs receive programmes for the protection of socially endangered categories of population after the start of the future application of the VAT Act? I remind you of distinguished colleagues that this obligation to present a programme for the protection of the socially endangered categories of population has been established by the Council of Ministers by the House of Peoples as well as the Parliamentary House of BiH. In the conclusion that's on our 34th. The 10th session held on 14 December 2004 established a stated obligation, we set a deadline for the creation of social programmes by the end of February of this year. Of course, there are numerous examples that show that the Council of Ministers does not respect the conclusions of this state parliament, but I am afraid if this is another example, we will have very unwanted consequences which will, above all, be directed towards the Council of Ministers and all of us. We remember that the distinguished Prime Minister Terzić last summer announced that six months before we were assigned, we would introduce the VAT. We are witnessing the fact that both the Department of Implicit Taxation and the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Prime Minister, warns, points out and guides such activity that the Serbian deadline will be the moment when we do not meet what we have announced and we wrote it in the law, and that law is still on the table, only to follow the activity to move this deadline for the end of the year or the beginning of next year. I'm sure that buying time will only delay our agony temporarily, but time is passing quickly and the end of the year cannot be delayed. I would not like to be right about those who claim that we, too, are emissaries, adopting a conclusion on the Council of Ministers' commitment to make social protection programmes for the vulnerable categories of the public, just washing our own conscience because, as the Council of Ministers says, it is practically outside, bearing in mind what I have now said about their statements outside Parliament, and of course this will also be one of those conclusions that will not be or will not be realised in a quality way. I'm afraid, therefore, of these situations and where luck should the Council of Ministers' response be such as to deny the villain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4249	Thank you. Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4250	Mr. Chairman, this agenda item in principle, as far as I know, has been called questions, initiatives, so I'm going to propose here instead of questions an initiative on behalf of the Bosniak Club. These days, we are witnessing a very intense debate and with the right to draw great attention, concerns, etc., various comments about the events concerning the taking of an oath on Manjača and in Biljko by the recruit of the RS Army. With that in mind, we in the House of Peoples can mostly monitor what is in the media. As we have so far received no official information from anyone on this issue, I urge that as a House we seek information from the Council of Ministers, full information from the Council of Ministers, and this after the activities that are now under way. So I don't think that's supposed to be for 3 or 5 days, but after the activities are carried out, after the information or the analysis is collected, they take the stand to get that information. It would also be good to include information on the part of the ceremony on the taking of an oath of the Federation Army recruit in Capljana for the intonation of two anthems, i.e. information on what happened to this occasion should include an answer to a very important question, which is whether the law or sublegal acts provide for an oath procedure 11 including therefore the adopted verbal part, the written part, including the complete procedure, including the expression, including the intonation of anthem or anthem, etc. So it would be good to get that information, and if there is no precise procedure by law or sublaw, that information is given to us whether the competent ministry is preparing certain activities, so the Ministry of Defence, and until when will these sublegal acts be prepared, or when will it take effect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4251	Next, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4252	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable College, the distinguished guests, are present these days with a long-standing problem, the local areas of Janje, who have been brought into a position by illegal border change with their several hundred families that they are not getting up to use the greenery around 400 dulum and that the paradox is bigger, are forced even to pay land tax which they cannot use because of illegal border change. I don't think the House of People can passively observe the situation like no BiH institution can passively observe the situation. And, therefore, in the first step of the Council of Ministers, I ask for a written reply, which the Council of Ministers has taken with its ministries to change the situation and to bring it into a regular state. Of course, the Council of Ministers will also use other institutions to obtain answers such as the Commission for Borders, and I would ask that answer to be delivered in writing, so that, after that, and on the basis of relevant information, the House of Peoples may problem this issue in an appropriate manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4253	Next, Mr. Čengić for the second time.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4254	I apologize for the second time, I would take the opportunity to also ask a question, I must admit that I am not entirely clear to whom this question should be asked. Maybe the Ministry of Security, then the cantonal authorities in Sarajevo. Namely, in some media these days, at a time when it was current, so after the death of papa Ivan Pavao ii, and I think that perhaps the day of the funeral or about that day, information appeared in the media that a certain flag was or with the symbols of a Catholic church in a quiet place where it was exposed and, therefore, could be exposed, for which there are normal conditions, that it was removed, removed, in some ways defiled, etc. in the city of Sarajevo. Yeah, so that's the kind of information that came up. Since I haven't had a chance to see any other information besides that, and so many electronic media, I'd like to try to get information about it and a special question. If so, did the prosecution authorities determine the perpetrators and what was taken in this sense because it is absolutely inadmissible, since all BiH citizens, and especially the citizens of Sarajevo 12, expressed their sympathy for the death of papa Ivan Pavao ii, and how is it therefore, and I would like to see if such information exists and if anything has been done in this regard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4255	Thank you. Any more questions? There isn't. That's what we're done with this agenda point. And, for technical reasons at the request of our people, we'll take a five-minute break. There's something to be done, so I'm asking you not to step back and we're really going to be five minutes, so we're going to keep going. Second item of the agenda, Ad.2. The adoption of the minutes from the 39th session of the House of Peoples you have received the minutes. [[PAUZA]] Does anyone answer for a word? No one's reported. I suggest we adopt an excerpt from the record as we've obtained it in the materials. I call for a plea. You can vote. Who's in or out? Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted the record from the 39th session of the House of Peoples. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. Ad.3. Information from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the request for a feasibility study submitted by the Council of Ministers, you received a report from the relevant commission. At his 54th session, the House of Representatives accepted information with the following conclusions. 1. Information on the implementation of the performance study request is accepted and gives full support to meet the remaining requirements, in accordance with EU requirements, 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives calls on all levels of government in BiH to actively co-operate to meet the conditions and start negotiations. I'm opening a debate and here, for starters, if the chairman of the Council of Ministers is in the mood to present this information, I call on him to do so. Mr. Terzić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4256	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, I first thank the College for putting this item in today's agenda for your session. 13 In principle, it is about the fact that, as we know BiH by implementing the conditions set by the Physibility Study in BiH, it is trying to come in a position to get agreement to start negotiations with the European Commission on the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Treaty. According to us, it is the strategic agreement and the most important thing in the relationship between BiH's stabilisation after the signing of the Dayton Agreement. The contract should be clearly said that BiH is a stable country, that BiH is a country that can assume obligations, international obligations and respect them, and that it should by my deep conviction and be a guideline to the international community how to replace the OHR's presence in BiH with some new institutions. So, we, as you know, have received 16 sectors in which the European Commission wanted to see visible progress and together with the European Commission in Brussels, we have made one action plan that included the adoption of 46 laws and certain sublegal acts and actions that actually entail the introduction of European standards into these segments of society that have been treated with the physibilities of study. We hoped that visible progress for the European Commission meant political agreement. It means the adoption of content laws that involve reforms according to BiH's European standards and that it will be enough for the European Commission to give a signal to start negotiations. However, the European Commission has insisted, and I must admit that at the time of the study's implementation, it has changed the rhetoric a little bit and asked for full implementation of all these laws. We are today in a phase where we can safely argue that 95% of the physibilities of the study, implemented and I, as a clear indicator of it, have also provided letters sent by the Enlargement Commissioner to me as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, after our meeting on 21 March and related to the CTF, which was a constructive working group, which was here in Sarajevo on 10 March, to analyse the implementation of the Physibility Study. He must admit that in public, let's say, they misread the provisions of this letter, and that's why it was very important for me to share with both the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, to share the fact that this letter was presented in public, meant that BiH was half the Physibilities of the studies fulfilled and half did not. So, this letter clearly speaks about it though that we did about 95% of the physibilities of the study because overall, the physibilities of the study looked through the action plan at something about 110 measures of legal, sublegal decisions, etc. And about 100 have already been done. What's the big deal now? It is important that we finally get a clear signal from Brussels and for the first time in writing we have one scenario of future relations between BiH and the European Commission. At the end of the letter, Mr Ren clearly says that if we meet and the Commission recognises in Sarajevo on 19 May that we have completed the key elements of the feasibility study, that in late May, we can expect the Commission to propose that BiH and the European Commission start negotiations to sign the Stabilisation and Association Treaty. Surely it is something that then puts us in an active position to prepare for negotiations but leaves room for the European Commission to agree with 25 member states and a strategy for negotiations with BiH. And here it is clear that they expect 14 to be prepared in September-October somewhere by all 25 countries and that negotiations could begin somewhere in November. I think that what we did in 2004, when it comes to the relationship to the feasibility study, and also towards the European path of BiH, has clearly shown Europe that European standards for BiH are no longer a problem and that any clear and precise standard of BiH authorities can adopt for the sake of improving their citizens. What has also asked me to come before you is the fact that only the Council of Ministers cannot be one that can ensure a safe and efficient transition of the European path. We must be monitored by all institutions in BiH and, in particular, at a later stage, we must also be monitored by civil society. The review of the remaining performance obligations I gave you shows clearly that we have in principle a few rather difficult political issues and remain purely technical. International obligations are the first condition of a feasibility study and are required here to take further action to bring in war crimes suspects. The European Commission has made it clear, especially after v... that at this point in time, they believe that BiH has made significant progress in this area, but that they are looking for a continuation and that they are asking for even more, so that, according to information we have since Friday, this condition no longer burdens obtaining consent to continue negotiations. Implantation of post-accession obligations of the Council of Europe in the area of democratisation and human rights, the latest monitoring report of the Council of Europe Group, 10. The report we had on Friday at an extraordinary meeting of the Council of Ministers speaks of the huge progress BiH has made in adopting post-op, meeting post-accession commitments. A number of objections and requests were made there, which are mainly grouped together. One is that we are not yet as the Council of Europe has asked us not to make amendments and additions to the Electoral Law. And you, as you know, we presented it to them that a working group was eventually formed by a representative of the Council of Ministers, led by a deputy minister of justice, MPs at the House of Representatives and delegates whose task is to prepare for the perspective changes and supplement the Election Law. The other group of issues are, when it comes to democratisation and human rights, in fact, clear implementation of all those and the implementation of all those resolutions that we have adopted. So BiH had in the prepared conditions about 15 resolutions dealing with human rights that and democratisation to ratify, we did, and now we are expected, which is natural, to apply these resolutions and, more importantly, to report that we set up an annual reporting mechanism on these issues. And that's something that we're operating on and that's probably going to happen after the 10th report. The report submitted by this Monitoring Group of the Council of Europe also gets a positive light in Brussels. When it comes to public administration, implement the Action Plan to strengthen the Council of Ministers, and in particular the Commission, which is responsible for the management of property and public property. We have just agreed with representatives of the Republika Srpska government to finally give two members of the commission and I expect by the end of this week that we will get 15, that we will have an operational commission that will then start working on the project task it has been given. The Action Plan for Public Administration Reform, we work together with the European Commission, we have a national coordinator and its office established, the European Commission, together with Bh experts, has made a functional review of the public administration in BiH, given clear definitions of what should be done in this direction, and I expect that by the middle of the year we will have political agreement at the level of the whole of BiH that in this case we will form a working group of therefore, no more Martins and not this, a working group that was for defence reform, but that we form a working group, to exploit the potential and participation of European experts in it and to offer ourselves a plan for reforming the public administration in BiH. The improvement of co-ordination between the state and entities, you know that we have a coordination body for economic development and European integration, made up of three prime ministers, three finance ministers and a needed number of ministers depending on what the body is discussing. When it comes to human rights, we had an obligation to invest funds in the Return Fund, and here, as you can see, those who prepared this review, so the European Integration Directorate has, in some ways, put what is done, it turns out very awkwardly that nothing is done in these other activities, which is absolutely not true, but here, when the work is done quickly, it usually turns out to be creamy. So the funds were raised when it came to the Return Fund. The Federation government harmonised the Law on Refugees and Displaced Persons at RS level with state law and one of the major political issues burdening the realization of the feasibility of the study is this issue of the Law on the Single Ombdusmen in BiH. This is a classic example of how we still need to understand that everything we do when it comes to the adoption of laws in BiH simply needs to be brought into line with some standards. Whether these standards are offered by the European Commission or by the Council of Europe, there is only a difference in what institution offers standards, but we simply need to have harmonised laws and the Council of Ministers here, which is very little to understand, there is a huge problem in harmonising everything first with entity governments, and we need to agree with European standards, with international institutions that require individual measures and then send it to the pro-lomentary procedure. The law, when found in parliamentary procedure, simply the Council of Ministers can no longer affect any of this, any changes. It is up to MPs and delegates to fix amendments, which is absolutely full of rights and improve that text. But then we come up with a key problem. An MP or delegate, when he sets up, when he gives the amendment, he gives it on the basis of his views, based on what he thinks is good, that BiH citizens need it, etc. But it doesn't match him with anyone. And we, on the subject of the Ombdusmen as well as later TV Service, simply have a problem that MPs give amendments that they agree with those with whom we have agreed. The key thing, for this reform law package that came from the feasibility study, is the following. It is not enough to pass the law, it is necessary to get consent from the European Commission or the Council of Europe that it is in line with European standards because only such a law 16 means that we have met the measure. And we could have just passed all 46 laws, but to be told from Brussels, yes, you passed 46 laws, but you didn't meet any of them because you didn't comply with European standards, and that's where we're going in a vicious circle, and that's where we're going in a circle that raises questions about whether the Council of Ministers is doing its job properly, whether it has respect for MPs, delegates, etc. We, in the Rules of Procedure, have the obligation of the Council of Ministers to show itself about any amendment that MPs and delegates make, then we would have the obligation to go to check that this amendment is according to European standards, as we do not declare ourselves, then it is a matter of MPs and delegates to ensure that their amendment is also in line with the European standard to get plus in the obligation that we are given. Here's a classic example of the Ombudsmen's Law. I personally don't have any illusions and I don't have a certain attitude about whether we need an ombudusman or three ombudusmen. We agreed with the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe says you need an ombudusman, you don't need three ombudusmen. We send it to Parliament, MPs think differently. They give amendments that do not comply with the Council of Europe and the law falls. And this is the second or third time that this law is in this, in the parliamentary procedure precisely because the basic rule is not respected and it is not the matter whether we are obeyers of the international community, but the matter is the international community appreciates whether we have made progress by passing that law or we have left again things that are not really European standards but bh standards. The police reform, here are the witnesses that just today, I'm going in after this session to Vlasic to us for the next few days, there's going to be something that needs to happen, to agree on an action plan, so this one, we're going to see how far we can make it to the CTF on May 19th there. The trade is mainly about the implementation of the Free Trade Treaty. We have taken some of the activities that have already been forced by the authorities of Serbia-Montenegro to lift the outside customs barriers that they had to lift, encourage, export incentives that are absolutely against the WTO and EU standatdo when it comes to free trade, ensure proper management and control of free zones and implement additional decisions on the closure of certain zones. So, even though you don't have a fus note here to do something about it, a huge job has already been done. We shut down five free zones a year ago, which we found not to operate by law, that they actually did not act by law, but that they did not meet the legal obligations relating to production and trade in percentages. However, that shut-down cannot happen overnight and the zones have a deadline per law of one year to shut down. So that deadline expires at the end of May and five free zones will be shut down. We also formed a committee on the Council of Ministers to monitor and it has already started to monitor, monitor the activities of free zones daily, and together with the experts of the European Commission and one let me say enough unknown and unexplored area, in economic order in BiH to bring about one functionality that will satisfy the European Commission. Ensure the proper issue and control of the certificate of origin, these are the things now taken over by the Direct Taxation Authority and I think we have a pretty active position here. To establish a plant protection administration, appoint a deputy director who will start operational preparations for full operation of the administration, improve the coordination of interother, central and regional veterinary services, this is actively done by the Veterinary Office as well as at the establishment of a national reference laboratory. Energy, we have here the obligation of the Federation Parliamentary Assembly, the Federation of BiH Parliament to agree on the Action Plan for the restructuring of the energy sector in the Federation. We've had enough of this, let's say, political tensions. However, as Prime Minister Hadžipašić just told me, a revised agreement will be completed by the Federation government by the end of this week and sent by an urgent procedure in parliamentary procedure. The board of directors, the board of directors of an independent operating system, system operator and transmission company, was appointed to the Council of Ministers 10 days ago and what is the task that cannot be completed so quickly is to create a national, draft energy strategy for BiH. The task force has been preparing a project task for several months, and the project task will now be published. It takes not a small amount of money here. It is estimated that about a million km will take for one serious preparation, a serious strategy and we will try to reach additional funding with the European Commission. A unique economic space, right here you can see that almost all the elements in this section are finished and we are left with the Public Television Service Act. The House of Representatives has provided its decisions that in the next 20 days, perhaps a little less, we sit down again and try to reach consensus through the commission together with the European Commission and OHR on this law. I expect that we will have enough political wisdom to realize that we are not committed in principle today, that we are not in a position to define ourselves on the content of the law and that we are looking for something more than at this point the European Commission thinks is enough for BiH, but at the end of the day we are determined whether we are going to catch this rhythm, whether we accept this scenario as stated by Commissioner for Enlargement, Mr Ren, or we will delay the possibility that BiH will start negotiations on signing the Stabilisation and Association Treaty. I also asked the House of Representatives who were not inclined to strengthen one resolution and today I will ask you to try to strengthen our efforts by means of the resolution, to oblige all those involved in the realisation of the Physibilities of Studies, including possibly their commissions, to do everything in order to welcome the CTF on May 19th and to get our consent at the end of May to start negotiations for the accession of the Stabilisation and Association Treaty. I think that if we get this agreement at the end of May, that we can objectively, in all things that have already been prepared, by the end of our mandate and sign the Stabilisation and Association Treaty, and thus round up a four-year reform cycle, which BiH has given a whole new quality compared to when we took over our duties. Thank you. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4257	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr. Limov, then Mr. Čengić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4258	Thank you, Mr. President, of course it's easier to say this behind the pay phone, this is a very important topic and when it comes to us, I personally think it's far more appropriate to consider it at a plenary session, so at a joint session of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and, of course, I will not elaborate more broadly on the argument that I'm saying this, but I will say that a practice has been built in the House of Nations which we are considering exclusively what is going through at the House of Representatives. And, practically, we can promise everything today, but if in the process, either at the Council of Minsitarians, or at the House of Representatives, something of what is necessary as a condition, doesn't go through or goes in accordance with certain deadlines or in a quality way, we can't do our part of the job either. That is why I am an advocate that when it comes to these matters that are important for all of us, important for all the governments in BiH, for all the parliaments in BiH, so that we, as the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, are holding and discussing this at joint sessions. Of course, when you hear an opening statement like this, then in any case, uh, all of us MPs get a certain picture and I want this one, I want to express my view of this issue and of course, that I will be managed by the letter of Honored Mr. Oli Ren, as well as by the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, because, as the Prime Minister says well, the first of the things that represent our terms, is the fulfillment of so-called. the post-war conditions or obligations we have made when we are admitted to the Council of Europe. Of course, taking into account everything in this letter from Mr. Ren that we received, and in this report, which was made up somewhere in January 2005, which was usually about the period between the 9th month of last year and January of this year, that it is really something that we can accept in different ways and those who are prone to make up and spread sometimes insufficiently justified optimism, can be fooled by our old bad practice that can be defined under the wing, we will easily. I think the situation is very, very serious and that we have before us the decisive months of our real steps on the European path. This is an ideal year, otherwise, to do the job that's ahead of us. For the next year on the side of what people in Europe will think if we don't fulfill what we are, which we declare to be, but next year is electoral, and I'm personally afraid that this can have a significant adverse impact if Bog doesn't give us everything that's been outlined and what the Prime Minister has defined as the possibility that in November this year or at the end of this year, they start really in a quality way to do, so a new step and based on the previous steps that the Prime Minister himself was talking about. Otherwise, I don't think a further declarative oath to be ready to implement the reforms can help us. So resolutions, etc. There's very little they can do to help us. We can use the implementation of reforms. Implementation of reforms is an interest and need above all in BiH and then, of course, it is in certain segments and the condition that we will be admitted faster in 19 to the democratic European community of countries and peoples, which are so far in the EU 25. And in this sense, therefore, we do not need a story about reforms, we need an engagement in the implementation of reforms, and we need them personnel, and here in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and in one home and another, those personnel who will not approach the issue from the aspect that something cannot, as something is limited, I do not know the provisions of the Constitution, some law that is not fulfilled with our needs or with European standards, etc. but we need those personnel above all in the executive wave, those who are therefore working on implementing certain projects, who will approach problems in the way they engage in answering the question of how they can do something. Of course the paper part of the reform is an inevitable phase, whether it's simply a must. But if that's all it's left with, then it's getting counterproductive over time, and eventually it's seen as a colorful lie. The prime minister has now said that simply this one, we are estimated to be a newspaper, in fact it is not, we had to come to that position at that time and it is good that we have already come to that position, to be told that we will also be evaluated through the implementation of the reforms and regulations and laws that we are making. So, optimistic variant, 19.05. In 2005, if we get a green light, in September and October, the European Commission will meet, of course, each of the 25 EU Member States and then be delivered to us as we say negotiating instructions and Stabilisation and Association negotiations, we could start by the end of this year, but I want to make it clear here and what is visible from this letter, if there is no progress in reforms and if this progress is not seen by these EU member states, there is none of these wishes. Therefore, we must be fully aware that only a responsible relationship can be credible in our efforts. This requires all institutions to act synchronisedly, and that it cannot happen to us, for example. that in one important thing that is here, some say the first condition, which is co-operation with The Hag, Prime Minister Terzić, on the basis of data he received from one of our specialised state agencies, says one thing, and then the prime minister, or at one of the governments at a lower level, says the opposite thing about the same issue. Of course, if you know what I mean specifically, something that's current these days, it's possible that they're both right, but we have to keep in mind that only with a credible presence of the power of the arguments, we can convince those who are watching us and all of them are following us, that we really deserve proper treatment. Or it is very possible that the agency gives one data to the state prime minister and other data to governments and ministers at lower levels, which would prove that there is still a particular error in the reform in the segment. Of course, there are a few things that are quite clear and which the general prime minister himself spoke of and about seeking a foothold in the aforementioned letter of Mr. Ren, and... this report by the Secretary General of the Council of Europe. So I just want to do a little bit of reverse, taxing, so what do we have to do? The first thing is to strengthen state notifications primarily by the government and the council of ministers. I have long said my position that we, indeed as a BiH state, must have a government, the BiH government that will in a competent way cover everything governments do in other countries, in this society that we seek. So, let's not make up anything new, some hot water, some specific BiH water, but see how other countries set it up. 20 Second, finally serious starting of public administration reform, the prime minister spoke about the issue, it is indeed a time to deal with this difficult problem. A third, more effective fight against crime. I purposely speak not of the terminology that is indicated in the letter itself, but of my approach, and in fact, that is how I define these needs and our tasks. Well. A more effective fight against crime, and above all, this segment, which is also potential in the opening exhibition. Fourth, more credible compliance with the obligations of the trade segment. Now, what that means now, I will not elaborate but there are appropriate standards there, and even this will be a key question of the Agreement itself, so this thing where we are being tested and where we very often contribute ourselves to certain problems from this segment and, of course, I am not saying that it is always the Council of Ministers itself and that we as a state have always been credible enough, persistent enough in explaining, cutting down certain negative things that distort or make the picture not clear enough, a picture of ourselves in this segment. Furthermore, it is the adoption of a BiH energy strategy. The prime minister himself said it was an important segment and, of course, it won't be easy. Well, in the end, it's almost nothing easy here. And the next thing is building in the reality of a unique economic space. Indeed, regardless of all the optimism that, in particular, three prime ministers show from time to time, which I, of course, welcome in principle, but I will believe only on the basis of very concrete indicators. I'm not going to mention this now, that for this matter, it would be a very interesting piece of information about how many liters of oil in the Federation area were sold and produced in the only refinery this one, in BiH, is it in the Bosnian Ship. Of course, there's a lot of such things that could be this annoying is, uh, that we could provoke a wider debate. And of course, now I've left the last to say in this tax list what's first, and that's meeting the accompanying obligations and in that respect I personally have I would say the most remarks about first of all the dynamics of meeting those obligations. We took over when we entered the Council of Europe, that we would install the relevant standards into the BiH Election Law in the first year after the reception. Now, it's very easy to calculate how many years we missed and we didn't do that thing. The prime minister himself said that some things were technical and that they were done in the meantime. I personally don't think there would be any need and there was no strong enough reason that we hadn't done it in good time, thinking first of all about enabling the operation of this state-run Return Fund, then agreeing with the state law of the Law on Refugees and Displaced to RS, etc. Of course, we envoys, MPs, we are very often in a situation, especially in the House of Peoples, when something comes to us, then colleagues from the RS tell us, if we do not have the position of the National Assembly of the RS. It is precisely the task, to ensure that people have a timely attitude, that we do not take down the agenda points or that projects do not fall to us for reasons that people do not have a specific question, because they cannot go contrary to that attitude objectively, and it is not normal for 21 of us to insist that they act contrary to that attitude because we know the consequences of all this. The next thing I know, by harmonising the Constitution, I'm going to tell Usav, that, we know what the approach is, but my people, if we change the electoral law, and if in this electoral law and the constitution that we have, we have to put in place appropriate provisions, for example, the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, then we have to intervene just as we do when it comes to the proper changes of the constitutionally related to Ombdusman's human rights, which is also one obligation but apparently, we have this problem. The things that have been happening with us, sometimes especially lately, unfortunately have exactly the opposite of our claims that we are ready to install in legislation and in practice, in life, in the standards that Europe has and which we claim to be and ready to do. I will remind, just for the sake of illustrations, we cannot be credible in this if the House of Peoples of the Federation works without an adequate number of members of the Serb people. Therefore, the City Council of Sarajevo cannot be without members here, unfortunately of the same people and of the god-awful multinationality of which the head of the municipality...the President, the Council of Muslims. Of course it has an automatic direct echo, and those in Capljina immediately reacted, there is now the president of the Municipal Council of Catholics and this, the head of the Hrvat municipality, quite understandable, if it can be in the capital, in a country that wants to go to Europe, then why can't it be in one, I won't... mention it now, but here in Capljina, because I'm from Capljina or tomorrow I don't know in High and Around BiH. That's a very serious problem. I said it a maločas while, and I will underline, in the first year we were obliged to carry out an election law review, and to comply with the standards, and those standards clearly state that every BiH citizen has the right to be, to be important and to choose in certain terms whether or not it is conditions. We in half the country now have in half the state you don't have, etc. The best, best-quality Federation Srbin can never be here in the House of Peoples, for example, not to say he can't be a member of the Presidency and of course it refers to Hrvat and Bosniaks from this second half, so 49% of BiH. I didn't notice that the Prime Minister mentioned it in the Law on Local Self-Government. And there are certain problems, and it's a commitment, and it's a more ready commitment to the Council of Europe, and we know that we have problems, although now the problems are more pronounced, at least as I understand here in the Federation, we very often have a way of thinking about how somewhere else we're looking for reasons why it's not good. I'll mention another law that expired yesterday. However, in the report of the Secretary General of the Council of Europe, it says it is final, I would say the deadline has passed, but my Bog. I will mention, therefore, that is the Law on objecting to conscience, i.e. conscientious opposition to the War War Service in accordance with the Council of Europe's rules, I repeat, and this is a ready-made condition. There are things we can really call technical, given the character of our constitution, because international acts, conventions, contracts, etc. documents made up of these 15, but there are some more that are, in fact, our condition. For example. The ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Compensation for Victims of Violence is an obligation, for me unwarrantedly we did not properly and in the procedure realised, and last year our authorities made promises somewhere in the 22nd month, and then again it will take who knows how long, so how long. That's no reason to be late. That's my key bet. I have to, and I want to tell my dear colleagues directly to this occasion certain things that I think are important to accept and, if so, we will surely do than is expected of us. First, without full co-operation with The Hag, there is no Partnership for Peace, and I will say my position, as long as the suspects, as their category is probably legal, no one is to blame, is it, etc., while our country's people in The Hague travel from Belgrade and Zagreb, I don't think there's any luck. I'm not going to talk about what's being offered and given, promising, etc. It doesn't matter. Secondly, without a genuine defence reform, one minister in the state, one Chief of Staff, one operational military commander, one defence ministry in an expensive and unique armed forces of BiH, our country, I am convinced, will not enter NATO. We need Europe, we don't need three one-national armies, that's quite clear. You see,... with keeping the condition the way it is. To say that we're ready and talk about reforms, I don't think that goes away anymore, that whoever does it is just silly. And I'm sure that won't work. Third, without police reform, we have no chance of moving closer to the European Union. With 14 interior ministers, 15 directors, or 15 or more laws, dealing with police problems, 15 police commissioners, we are, above all, still, unfortunately Eldo rado for criminals. If by May 18th 2005, we don't adopt a police reform plan, we'll have another train leaving without us for Europe. Of course, let's see Croatia, Serbia-Montenegro will not wait for us and, if we miss this chance, we will be the only black hole in this part of Europe. All reforms, especially police reform, are of interest and so should be explained to people, the interest and need of citizens and all peoples in BiH. Police reform and efficiency are afraid, therefore, of the effectiveness of police fear only criminals and those who work for them. The key principles of police reform, in my deep conviction, are acceptable to everyone, especially when this is a problem, there are ten European standards, ten standards in the organisation of the European Police, with us the minimum of these three and, in my opinion, are acceptable to all, therefore, the adoption of laws and funding at national level, eliminating the influence of politicians on the operational functioning of police and the regional organisation of BiH's single police structure. What, in particular, does the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina have to do to meet what is expected of us? So, at least the way I read it. First, bring an action plan to implement police reform on the principles given by the commission. Secondly, bring in an action plan to restructure the electricity sector or as the strategy has been said. 23 The third thing, to pass the law on the TV system and the RTV service to BiH. That's why I'd like, Mr. Prime Minister, that when we talk about these things to be your whole government, because we have a situation that ministers from your government, certain things let go, and then we representatives, from fellow MPs and envoys are asked to withdraw, I don't even know what interests, which are all things, so they're like your ministers reformers. They are on the line of what is expected of them, and like us MPs, the envoys who tend to what is written in the Constitution, we are as though we are holding back reforms. As far as I'm concerned, this is a time to very clearly distinguish people on the platform, just to prepare and implement reforms, or to be a reformist, or, obstructive, of course, you who are in power are looking for people who are truly reformists, not destructives, and no one is defending you. You even have a responsibility if you don't, because you can't justify yourself to anyone, and first of all, to yourself, unless we succeed in this. As far as I'm concerned, therefore, there is no dilemma, and the key thing here, it will certainly be these laws in the Public TV Service and the TV System, as well as the quality of the work done and the standards you spoke about, Mr. Prime Minister, and I am certainly raising my hand for such solutions without any problems and, in that sense, if we all work together, because well said the Prime Minister, this matter cannot be presented only by the Council of Ministers, this matter can be presented by all the institutions and in one coordinated maximum of serious and great work and engagement. If we don't take this year's chance, I'm afraid the consequences will be longer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4259	Thank you, Mr. Limov. Mr. Čengić, but you won't be long, at least we hope.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4260	Since my colleague Limov often had the habit of giving me his word, I will treat him this time that he spent three quarters of my time and I will remain only in one quarter. I'm not kidding. I'll be very brief. I would be just as pleased as my colleague Limov and as all of us here in this house if we had one here today, if we had one single sentence of our chairman's Council of Ministers today, which would raise awareness and say, tomorrow, negotiations start with the European Commission. There's no dilemma in being satisfied with me and all of us here. But it's not like that. As far as this home is concerned, I am one of the witnesses, and we have all worked together on this, that this home has tried to do everything in its competence, to speed up the implementation of BiH's obligations. In that sense, we did a programme of activities aimed at completing this by 1.10 last year. We supported that program of activity, gave it another clear view of it. 24 However, we are currently in a situation where we have not yet completed all our obligations, probably partly due to the fact that significant changes have taken place in the European Commission itself, the mandate of the previous meeting has expired, a new assembly has come and, simply, it has taken time to get to know the situation and to say, to speed up these activities a little bit. On the other hand, I can probably agree with certain remarks and criticisms addressed to concrete authorities, to the Council of Ministers, to certain ministries, institutions that should have been applied, etc. This is what we are talking about, but it is also the fact that it is the Parliamentary Assembly itself, i.e. both of her homes, still have obligations that have not been made. Of the 40 laws that we had to do, we still have five laws that we hadn't passed and, instead of having a further discussion in that sense, I think we agree on that, that there were gaps, that there were delays, that there were objective problems, etc., but at the same time there's another fact. If we look at this whole story now from a perspective of two years ago, we're in a position that wasn't two years ago, let me even say, for me, it wasn't almost imaginary. So today we have one situation where we are discussing more operations and less on principle issues, while before that was the debate on whether the political parties would give a general boost to this European path. So that I don't take a lot of time here, I think it's about that, that it's important to do now, at this hour of two jobs. One is to send a clear message from the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the European Commission and everyone in Europe, in the European Union, who are monitoring this process in BiH, that our home and that BiH institutions are ready to carry out the remaining obligations within a reasonable and short time. That's number one. And number two. Just as important as that, let us agree on who, within this relatively short period of time by May 19, will take on what part of the obligation, that is, how we can all fulfil all the obligations that are left. In that sense, at the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy of this House, we discussed this issue and this material provided by the Council of Ministers, including a letter from Commissioner Oli Ren, including an analysis provided by the Directorate with certain supplements that we received orally and, after all, I can say the following. I have signed a resolution that I have not prepared, there is no secret, there is no reason not to give it, I think that the EEI has worked most on the resolution with the other institutions within the Council of Ministers, we have received one text of resolution, which I have signed in order to go into parliamentary procedure and I propose that we support this text of the resolution, given that it is a kind of public declaration and confirmation of the willingness of this home to do its part of the work, i.e. to encourage others to do their part of the work. I suppose I don't need to read the text of the resolution, but what I think is important is, let's say from that resolution that I read only. It is expressed its willingness to contribute to the remaining conditions defined in the Implementation Study, give full support to the Council of Ministers, meet the 25 conditions defined by the Performance Study, invites all institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and all their authorities to co-operate fully on the implementation of the peopal conditions of the Performance Study and points to the necessity of establishing institutions defined by the Performance Study. As far as the Commission itself is concerned, she, considering other obligations, accepted conclusions, which, let me read rather than convince them. So the first conclusion is that it is proposed to the House of People to bring the resolution to this chi part I read. Two, it is proposed to the College of the House that within five days draw up an action plan to implement the obligations of the House of Peoples from the Performance Study, that is, first of all, these five laws. Under three, it is proposed that the BiH Council of Ministers request the development of an entity parliamentarian action plan and government to implement its performance obligations within seven days. Four, it is proposed that the BiH Council of Ministers draw up its action plan for the implementation of the performance obligations, which, mainly at the end and, finally, all of BiH's obligations mentioned in the letter to Oli Ren, are realised by 18 May 2005. In the end, I'll be very clear. He's got work to do with Oli Ren's letter. Comparing what he mentioned and what is today has already been a significant part of it. What's left, let's be objective now, is more at the Parliamentary Assembly than at the Council of Ministers. I know exactly how we work. If there's enough mood and will to find solutions, I think we have time and we have technical opportunities to realize it. In that sense, I propose to the home that support this resolution, as one expression of the general mood and willingness of the House of Nations to support this process and through these conclusions we ask each of the institutions in BiH to carry out their part of the commitment by the deadline, which would allow us to give a positive opinion and enter into the negotiations process this year.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4261	I thank Mr. Čengić. We don't have a quorum, Mr. Đoko Pajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4262	Gentlemen chairman, fellow delegates, I will try to be as brief as possible. In front of us, this information is very important and very important for BiH as a whole, its entities and all its citizens. It is absolutely indisputable for all of us that there is the will of all in BiH, all relevant political factors and its citizens to join the European Union, the Partnership for Peace and all that should be done by all the levels of BiH authorities to achieve this goal. 26 We have this information, we have a letter from Mr. Ren, with clearly set objectives and tasks, which must be met, in order to come into a situation to start negotiations on the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I wouldn't discuss everything that's written here, I have my own opinion and my position, it's clear that all of these principles, on the whole, on my part, I want to personally support it, I am absolutely in order to implement all of this, but within the framework of the Constitution and what our official representatives of the government require from this home. I'd just like to take a quick look at police reform. That's one, at this point, painful and burning question. Clearly, we need police reform. What Mr. Limov just said earlier, only criminals are afraid of police reform, that I too am afraid of reform, that I am against police reform, and there are official views of all RS institutions, that there is a need to reform the police, but at this point, Mr. Limov has already spoken of it. I, as a delegate to the House of Nations, who was delegated to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, have no right to go in reverse order and that what Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers said to the resolution, I undertake my parliament to do something. I think I should, I understand it that way and I'll stay on that principle. That I am obliged to implement decisions and resolutions and all of the NS Republika Srpska and I cannot go in reverse order. Here, when we took the oath, I certainly swore that I would respect the Constitution of BiH, which includes respect for the RS Constitution. You know, gentlemen, that on Thursday 21st, there was an NS RS meeting, which has reached certain conclusions and certain views on this matter that, yesterday, agreements and negotiations of all relevant political factors in BiH, in this very important and sensitive issue, and I don't know at this point, how these agreements will end, with what conclusions, recommendations etc., but no matter what happens today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow at Vlasic, I think it must go again, at least as far as the NS RS is concerned, that it must go back to the National Assembly of the RS, and that, again, whatever it is, it will finally be made known and the precise views of the NS RS and at that point, I am obliged to respect these decisions and conclusions, regardless of how I now have an opinion on whether I am for this or for that solution, etc. So at this point, I can only accept this information, but I can't accept voting for a resolution and obliging someone to do something, so I can't go in reverse of what's my job and what's mine to do in this house. Of course, I must remind you again, it will probably have to go to the amendments to both the Constitution of the RS and the Constitution of BiH, if all these conditions set by the European Union are to be met, or what is drawn out in this letter by Mr. Ren. I will remind only of page 2 of this table, reviewing remaining obligations from the Performance Study, program 16. In this table on page 2, the fight against organised crime, and attitude 1 says agreements, agree and adopt an action plan to implement police reform, and based on the Commission's principle of police reform, yes. It is absolutely necessary to agree and adopt this action 27 plan, but right behind it stands, one lining, a cartoon, all legislative and budgetary competences transferred to an expensive level. I remind again that there is a conclusion of the National Assembly of the RS, that at this point there is no consensus of political and all significant political factors in the RS that everything must be transferred to the state level, but there is one conclusion that it must go further into agreements under the BiH Constitution and the RS Constitution. Well, therefore, I do not owe it, at this point in time I say I cannot vote and vote for this final position in this letter by the Chairman of the Council of Minister Terzić, that we oblige all the institutions of the authorities to accept all these tasks and all this is written in this letter. So I'll take this information into account, but I can't decidently commit to everything that's written here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4263	I thank Mr. Pajić. I'd just like to remind you of our article 114 of our Rules of Procedure that says so. Point 1. The House can express its views on relevant political issues, social problems, etc. by means of a resolution. Thus, the resolution is optional in itself to express our position, commitment, and so on. But here, we don't have the conditions to vote, but we need to approach the vote. I will therefore take the opportunity very briefly here in one matter to say a few words of everything. I will take the opportunity to welcome Prime Minister Terzić. So, condition ESI 16, feasibility study number 16. Public service law. I think that the House of Representatives did the right thing when guidelines were given to the committee responsible to review the legislative project and, yes, according to these guidelines, do what is necessary to do and this law is done in a way that is acceptable to everyone, so that the Commission can propose a report to Parliament to be positive to adopt this law. And, I think we should really make an additional effort these 15-days - 20 days and take another step forward, and it's already done a lot, because now the law that's in the procedure is significantly more quality than what was half a year ago or a year ago in the procedure and I think there's a way to find a solution and, just as it says here in this point, therefore, according to European standards and find the right solutions, which will be acceptable to everyone and that we get a really quality law, that is, two laws on Public TV service and system. Here, it's my suggestion and invitation to everyone to be really responsible and to use this time, yes, we really get a law that will be acceptable to everyone, such solutions, of course there is. They are also offered in the form of amendments or additions to these amendments or solutions given in the text of the law. Here, I, I really wouldn't be longer, I don't think this issue, with regard to police reform, but also all other issues and that it really is on all BiH institutions and not only BiH and lower levels of government, would really be responsible tasks to do these coming weeks and months, that as far as 28 can be more, if we can meet all these conditions and get a positive response from the Commission's report on the start of Stabilisation and Association negotiations. Here, I'm calling to determine if we have a quorum to decide on, and I suggest we agree on a way to work. I think it would be a good idea if, after we finish this point, it would be just a statement about how we're going to take this report, or a resolution, whether to determine one break of about an hour and take advantage of lunch, of course, a little rest. All right, Prime Minister Terzič, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4264	As you team up so you can vote, I'd make another little effort to try, explain why we need a resolution. The resolution doesn't prejudge anything. Be careful, the Council of Ministers' Law makes it clear that the chairman of the Council of Ministers is coordinating the activities of all institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina on the European path. We are slowly coming into a position that the European path, the European project is, in fact, the Adnan Terzić project and that the Council of Ministers and that we support it and, in fact, make the size of the people sitting in the Council of Ministers, not realizing that this is a crucial task, to provide citizens with our children. We have gone too far and too far in political debates over three key projects and the Ombudsman and the RTV service, even the restructuring of the energy sector in the Federation and not speaking yet about police reform. We must understand that, simply our alternative to stopping the European path clearly accepting that all countries in the region are going faster than we are. Here, Serbia-Montenegro has received agreement on the negotiations. No Niko is believed, I must admit that they are not even close by European standards as far as we are at this point. But it means something that isn't just standardisation, but politics has a huge role to play. Each institution is being watched in Brussels and they understand what may not be clear to Mr Limov, the Council of Ministers is the Council of Reform Council of Ministers. Every minister in the Council of Ministers is a reform minister, because we have launched and brought all this into line so far on the issue of reform, but they also know that it is not enough. They expect every delegate in the House of Nations to have that approach. One resolution, which would send a clear signal to Brussels, that we are aware of the chance we have. Whether we use it will not be the result of the resolution or the vote of the resolution or not, it will be the result of whether there is enough political hearing in BiH to go further on our European path. If you're receiving information for knowledge, it's the same as if we've informed you of a project, that I'm not banalizing now, as a key cruise project. We need a clear definition of both homes, from the House of Representatives we haven't received it. We haven't received a resolution from the House of Representatives, and otherwise we get very little support for our projects, because it's just like that, so someone in this country doesn't think that someone is pushing the process faster than the others, but I don't see why today, if you're not ready for the resolution, give something stronger, but to receive only information to know, I think that absolutely devalues the importance of the question. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4265	I thank Mr. Terzić. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4266	So not to be misunderstood, there is a motion for a resolution prepared by Mr. Čengić. When I said I couldn't accept it, I, absolutely don't mind. I said I will support this resolution, prepared by Mr. Čengić. There are no precise and clear... definitions that are acceptable to me and to all of us absolutely. But I am, when you, Mr. Chairman, said in your opening statement that we must oblige everyone else to implement all the conclusions, or recommendations from Mr. Ren's letter. And this resolution is absolutely acceptable. So we need to make every effort at all levels of government to come to a solution, absolutely.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4267	Tomislav Limov replica and Mr Vinko Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4268	I'm here, I'm sorry, I've been out of the O.R. for some of my earlier duties, so I don't know what the Prime Minister was saying, but in relation to what I don't understand. It's perfectly clear to me. I, when I said that your ministers and that all your ministers were not committed, then I had in mind very specific things, because we were getting a law here that the High Representative delivered to us, because you couldn't pass and we passed that law and we are going to reform in this regard. Here's an example of one, then one law that allowed for reform in that segment. You have a law on public service, you have a law on higher education, where your ministers, I've talked about it, where your ministers worked the way they did, and then you asked the envoys and MPs to withdraw vital interest, so they've fallen down, I mean the law on higher education. In this respect, you can't say that you've had a one-way and true commitment from your ministers, I'd even say it's two-faced behavior.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4269	Mr. Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4270	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Đoko said exactly what I wanted to suggest, namely that information as information was received as knowledge, and by resolution that we express our commitment to Europe and there is no need to adopt this information, and the resolution to adopt as a resolution of our commitment. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4271	Great. I was just about to suggest this. So, Mr. Radovanović suggested it. So we take the information to the knowledge, and as a consequence of this information, we show it by the declaration, or resolution, that we have received. I don't need to read it and I'd like to open the vote on the text of the resolution immediately. You can vote. I thank and realize that we unanimously adopted the resolution, the text that we don't read, we have it in front of us, I thank everyone. We have a proposal whether we should now take a break or a fourth point where there is only a statement, formal acceptance of the Commission's report. Mr. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4272	I apologize, you see that for some technical reasons, it seems that not all colleagues have reached conclusions, which our Commission has adopted, which are related to this. I just read them. To charge competent levels to draw up action plans to achieve this date. So that's something the Commission adopted at the 32nd session of April, and I don't know now if it's been delivered to colleagues, I just read those conclusions all the way from first to last, so I think it would be good to read about them, if I have to read about them again, essentially looking, namely, the points are basically in one, that each level of government makes an action plan regarding its obligations, so that's all the story of this. So, the Council of Ministers has its action plan, the Parliamentary Assembly of its action plan, entities its action plan. How entities have actually done most of what is mentioned there, only the Parliamentary Assembly, can freely say individually at this time, we have the highest obligation and that was the proposal. So, everyone does their own action plan and then we go into the realisation of that action plan. It's not in any way, this isn't anything, this is pure dynamics. We've adopted dynamic plans so far, some we've realized, some we've been late, etc., but I just think it would be good to express one mood to work in that direction.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4273	I don't have that paper in front of me. I really can't tell you at this point whether it's it or not, there might be some other piece of paper, but I'm back to what I was saying earlier. Did you say make a commitment? I'm coming back again. We can make a recommendation, and no, I can't commit my people's assembly, because they make me bound, and I do something or I don't do something here, and I don't do them. I can recommend, I know, we can make a recommendation, not make a commitment. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4274	Now let's take a break, since you're already in that break, to get a written conclusion and then to keep going.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4275	Okay. I'm setting a break from an hour, so start of work at 15 to 3. ...start with a follow-up. [[PAUZA]] I call for us to sit in our seats and go and be sure we're done with point 3. Mr. Čengić wants to talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4276	...to say so, since we agreed to go with the other part. So we adopted the resolution, but the Commission offered one proposal for a conclusion. But they have two variants here. One is, let me say, five proposals for conclusions, one of which is realized through the adoption of the resolution and in the first and second variants, and the other is three, so it would remain in one variant four conclusions in the other two. As far as I am concerned, I, as the President of the Commission, will remain in this position for the Commission to propose all these conclusions, which have been forwarded and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Terzić from a. to e. However, if fellow Dr Vinko Radovanović had... one other, if he thinks it might be easier to go with the proposal of conclusions, which only have three conclusions, i.e. only two, because the resolution was adopted. I think we can talk about this one that way. It is natural for me, as chairman of the Commission, to stay with this, but if Dr Vinko proposes this other solution, I think it can also be discussed. I don't see that there's a lot of need for a lot of debate, but just to see which of these options we'll support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4277	Here, me, Mr. Spajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4278	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to comment here on this proposal of the Commission's conclusions, which I am a member of. However, we must keep an eye on the values and values of this home that we adopt here, if we are to adopt documents and subdocuments, then that will not be implemented and in some way realized, it seems that it would not be possible to adopt conclusions. If we adopted a resolution containing, in principle, these, I mean the conclusions proposed by the Commission, that they would be excessive and not necessary, if we look at this resolution 32 that we adopted. I repeat, and if I am a member of the Commission who has reached these conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4279	I thank Mr Spajić, so you believe that everything is said through the resolution and by accepting the report on the implementation of the obligations in the Performance Study. Mr. Čengić wants to speak again.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4280	So, I have to admit that we're on the Commission, I think we agree on that, that we've also given support to these conclusions. I don't hold these conclusions in any way to put more pressure on anyone in terms of obligations than the resolution itself. It's just a little bit of a schedule, so to speak, a commitment. I suppose we will all agree on the first fact, which is that there are five unadopted laws at the level of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which should be adopted, which are prescribed by the Implementation Study. If we're going to adopt them, then we need to make some action plan to adopt them in some way. So it's a very simple thing. It is also a question of these other obligations of the Council of Ministers, whom we have here in some way rightly, perhaps even criticised in these today's debates, why don't we tell the Council of Ministers to do their action plan. Why don't we ask the other entity authorities to do their own action pollen, not in the details, not in the way they have to do it. But it's only this, if we want to get into the negotiation phase, if we want to take advantage of this calendar year, that even under quotes, the last day of the year we start negotiations, then we have to set some dates, some dates, and define these other obligations. There aren't many of them. But we'd better do them. On the other hand, our suggestion to the Council of Ministers, the Parliamentary Assembly and other competent institutions does not mean that there is still no order, no ultimate commitment, but another fast to put an hour in advance, to put a calendar in advance, and to say by that date we want to work something out. Otherwise, we'll get into a situation where we might do it this, maybe next year, maybe three years from now, and Mr. Ren's letter is clear in that part. On the other hand, the resolution itself and, if it does not define the exact deadlines, it accepts that we carry out these obligations. Eh, now, as far as I'm concerned, there are two oppositions. The commission accepted this option with five conclusions, of which it was first realised through resolution and has this second variant, where the College of the House of Nations was referred two, namely two more not executed. Whichever version of the two goes by, I think it's fine. If we don't want to make a statement about it, it's also ours, but I'd like to understand how this house will function in terms of obligations. I mean, if there's another time, I'd love to. I am fully open to better solutions, but simply, this House and the Parliamentary Assembly have their obligations in relation to the Study of Performance. In what way will we define these obligations, except that we know exactly that it is five laws and we know what each of these laws is called and we know exactly at what stage of the parliamentary assembly procedure each of those 33 laws. Now it's just a matter of saying that the College examines the issue and proposes some framework deadline, nothing more. We do not even insist, but we suggest that those institutions, which are the bearer of these obligations, take a look at these obligations, take a look at the deadline and propose a solution. There, that's all, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4281	Mr. Đoko Pajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4282	I agree with Mr. Spajić, we said we accepted the resolution. I also believe that everything is said in the resolution and all institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina know their obligations. I guess they know what to do next. I don't see the need for us now, to remind them of certain conclusions, to guide them, to recommend them, so on the other hand, I think that's how it is and to leave each institution at its level to know its obligations and, of course, that they should make their action plans about it. This should also be done under b) to the College of the People's House to draw up an action plan of realization, obligations, etc. within five days. five laws, etc. We can, this college can bring in its action plan, so it says, within five, ten, fifteen days we'll finish it and that's it. We can't until we get those bill proposals. It doesn't matter if they're going to be, but five laws are being mentioned. We cannot make ourselves an obligation to adopt something before the entity assembly procedure, the Council of Ministers, the House of Representatives, etc. is passed. I think without need we should impose some obligations, which is, the question of whether we can carry them out as such. And, therefore, I believe this is all too high and that that resolution that we adopted is sufficient for the future action of all institutions at the level of BiH and entity.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4283	I thank Mr. Pajić. Mr. Čengić wants it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4284	I'm really sorry it's not my custom, but this time I'll be very clear, maybe a little bit and too open. kolega Pajić, you probably know that the five laws that are now in the procedure have nothing to do with... All these laws are in the process. We won't prescribe anything more than what we need to do. The proposal for the College to draw up an action plan means that the College consults with the College of Representatives' House, tries to agree on terms, and I know as well as you that no law can be passed by law unless it is adopted by both homes in a particular procedure. So, in that sense, we don't prescribe anything other than what is our obligation. That's number one. 34, number two. There is no one in the world, Mr. Pajić, no one in the world who can prescribe obligations to this home except for this home and the obligations provided for by the Constitution and the law. When it comes to operationalization, this very home gives itself obligations and offers obligations and deadlines and terms. So, in that sense, I'm not proposing anything individually, but asking the College to re-evaluate this obligation and see how one action plan could be made. Otherwise, I expect someone else to organize us, expect someone else to give us a deadline, it would just be a disaster. You'd only react then and say, "Who is he who can give us assignments?" I therefore call on this conclusion to call on the House, or College of the House, to consider the possibilities to study the obligations and to propose an action plan. It will also work towards the Council of Ministers that they do that obligation for themselves and others, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4285	I thank Mr. Čengić. Here, however, join the decision-making. So we have a proposal from Mr Čengić that the conclusions of the Commission on Foreign Trade Policy, adopted at the 32nd session, etc. which we have before us, under point (b) and (c) to adopt. So that's the suggestion. We heard the explanation, etc. We're planning, this morning at the College, we decided we'd have a session, most likely the 16th, that's the one there, that week when it fell on May 18th, a few days earlier. But here, we heard a proposal for conclusions. I call for a statement of conclusions. Whoever's in favour, you can vote. So the results of the vote are 3 for, 2 against, others abstained. There's no entity majority. There's no total majority. So the conclusion didn't go through. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda. Ad.4. The Joint Commission's report on the effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the Post Law you received a report. On behalf of the commission, it is up to our home, if necessary, to submit the report to Mr Čengić. Mr. Čengić, if you need anything, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4286	Very short. So, the Joint Commission was working 19.4. and agreed on all open issues, i.e. adopted a total of 13 amendments. She also made a proposal and requested that certain solutions be made to technical offices in the law itself and asked the Council of Ministers, given that the difference between the House of People and the House of Representatives was adopted in the House of Representatives that the headquarters of the Post Office be in Doboj, and in the House of Nations there was no such conclusion, that amendment, 35 was agreed to accept the text adopted in the House of People, therefore, instead of writing in the law of this time where it would be based, to ask the Council of Ministers, to make a decision, but to ask that this decision be made within 30 days, so that we would indeed take advantage of the opportunity, to appeal to the Council of Ministers to make a proposal to the headquarters of this agency within 30 days, and I think it is very important, but I would ask all colleagues to give support to such a uniform text of the law, as regards to the Commission, because this law, as it may be prepared by way of 2002. The solutions are European and global standards, so I don't think there's any reason why we can't all give support to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4287	I thank Mr. Čengić. Niko one's answering for a hearing. I call for a statement to accept the Commission's report to agree on the texts of the Post Law. You can vote. Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted the Commission's report on the agreed text and thus the Law on the Post Offices of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted and formally adopted. We're moving to agenda five. Ad.5. The Commission therefore considers that the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples shall be discussed whether the law will be considered in a shortened manner. At the 53rd session, the House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to shorten the deadlines for reviewing the law, and adopted the law at the 54th session in both readings. So, are there any reports for the hearing. This was just more information on what was done at the House of Representatives. There isn't. Therefore, I would like to call for a statement on the request of the Council of Ministers to be considered by the law in a shortened procedure, under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. You can vote now. I thank and realize that we unanimously adopted a request for the law to be considered by a reduced procedure. That's what we're done with point five. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda. 36 Ad.6. An indication of the House of People's request by the Council of Ministers for consideration of BiH's Law on Railways, following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House are being debated whether the law will be considered in a shortened manner. At the 50th session, the House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to shorten the deadlines for the examination of the law. We got the law and the request. Who's answering for a word? There's a need to explain the request.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4288	Well, here, I'll go out, which is why we're looking for a brief procedure. In fact, the adoption of a law on railways... the conditions of the European Union, as you know as well as the Law on Post Office, is a set of laws that we are doing within our jurisdiction to pass, frame the competences of the Ministry of Communications and Traffic in full its sense. Otherwise, the law is important, since it is a condition for obtaining a loan from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 180m euros, which would be used for the reconstruction of the railway infrastructure in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Otherwise, the contract, the pre-contract on the loan was signed, but the condition is that we have passed a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's railways. For these reasons, we are asking for a shortened procedure, and simply the law finally defines the issue of regulation of rail traffic and infrastructure in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4289	I thank Mr. Bašić. We heard the explanation. There's no record of a hearing. I am closing the debate and I call for a statement on the request of the Council of Ministers. You can vote now. I thank and realize that we unanimously adopted the Council of Ministers' request that this law be considered in a shortened procedure, i.e. Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. That's what we're done with the sixth point, crossing the 7th point of the agenda. Ad.7. An indication of the Home of the People on the request of the Council of Ministers for examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, in accordance with the urgency procedure, in accordance with Article 100 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the People's House in accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on the requirement for the law to be considered in accordance with this article after the debate. At the 55th session, the House of Representatives adopted the Law by a hasty procedure. Amendments shall not be submitted to Article 100(3) of our Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4290	Dear Mr. President and fellow envoys, I'm interested in why this six-month deadline is not respected, which is laid out in the law? What are the reasons and, of course, that in this sense I have no objection to 37 of us passing this law, but, indeed, why is not appointed director of this agency, or this BiH state institution, short-named SIP, within a period of six months.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4291	Here, we heard a dissent, or question. Is there anyone from the Council of Ministers who can answer this question? There isn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4292	Don't keep changing Hasane. I don't want this. We have a decision for everything we don't have reports we take off the House. No way.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4293	Mr. Čengić, go ahead and we'll decide.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4294	You know, it can be taken off the agenda, but it's hard to wait for something to get on the agenda, that's first. Secondly, I fully support the question, that is, the attitude behind the question. Why and why no obligation and deadline has been fulfilled. At the same time, however, this question was not about Mr. Vice President. So, at the same time, this issue is not directly related to this proposal, to a proposal on the procedure, for a proposal to follow the procedure. And if there is no competent person here who can answer this question, it should not be related to the Council of Ministers' proposal itself and the Council of Ministers' suggestion to go through this kind of procedure. And, I think, the question is absolutely legitimate, and I would very much like to talk to people who are competent to discuss it on behalf of the Council of Ministers, unfortunately we don't have a chance to talk about it, but I think it would be a good idea that, however, we don't link it to the question of deciding on the procedure regarding this law. If you agree to agree to ask the Council of Ministers to continue the session tomorrow, that I don't know, that's what we're going to do, but I mean, I wouldn't tie up with each other, because the procedure around this law is one thing, and these issues that are serious, which are legitimate, are certainly important, but are not directly related to the decision-making process of the law may be yes, but the procedure is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4295	Here, I understand, gentlemen, we've told at one of the last sessions if there are no reporters that the law is being removed from the agenda. This time and the last time I spoke of it, it was my turn to inform this house from the Council of Ministers, which are the reasons why something should be brought in an urgent, or shortened 38 procedure. In particular, if we have some explanations, questions, as Mr Limov has now asked, some ambiguities, then someone should explain it. My suggestion is to get this off the agenda. I understand Mr. Čengić's well-intentionedness, but I also understand the demands of the House that the laws on the agenda be heard by the introductions so that MPs can discuss better. My suggestion to this house is that this, in the spirit of what we have decided, be taken off the agenda and return to the next session. When someone comes who can explain why this brief procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4296	I thank Mr. Pamuk. Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4297	I, gentlemen, really had no intention of questioning the procedure and discussing this law. But since it's a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 100, which means we're about to make a decision right now. As far as I'm concerned, it's acceptable for me to think about putting this as a special item of the agenda, so professional services can ensure that someone comes here to explain to us and, if they don't come, that we act according to what Mr Pamuk was talking about. I want us to finish this, if there's any understanding from the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4298	Well, here, I see while Mr. Limov was expressing his thinking that by noding our heads and other ways, the way of the pantomime we decided so, but we can plead. So we're pleading on putting this point as a special point for today's session. Who's in? I thank you, I realize that with eight votes in favour, we have adopted the conclusion that we have put this point in the last place of today's agenda. We're going to the next point, it's number 8, on our papers under nine, but number eight. Ad.8. Proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Penal Code, Proposer of the House of Representatives, you received the law, as a report from the relevant commission. This is the first reading of the law, Article 90. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. Who's answering for a word? So there are no reports. I'm closing the raps. I call for a statement on the law in the first reading. You can vote. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Zjajić, if necessary. 39 I thank and realize that we unanimously adopted this law in our first reading. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. I call on us to make a statement as to whether or not we're going to do another reading. You can vote. I thank and realize that with 10 votes in favour, we have adopted a decision to consider the law in a second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. There was no amendment, as you know. If you feel that the proposing's representative should address himself, he's here. No demands. There's no need. There was no amendment. Who wants to talk about the law? I'm closing the debate. Mr. Pajić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4299	Just one sentence. Normally, this has passed the procedure, and I'm going to vote, absolutely for the amendment and the addition of the law, but it's a little vague, says who knows where the mass grave is so it doesn't report it will be punished by law. How's somebody gonna do it, who's gonna know if I know and they're gonna punish me? I mean, it doesn't make sense, but let it pass, it's illogical. Maybe, I know, or you know, but who's gonna know that I know or if anyone knows. Someone knows, but who's gonna know if I know so they can punish me or someone? But, well, all right. That leaves me with a vague question. I'll vote absolutely.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4300	All right, Mr. Pajić, thank you. Here, I invite you to make a statement about the law in the second reading. You can vote now. I thank and realize that we unanimously adopted the Law in a second reading. Since it was adopted in the same text as the House of Representatives, this law was finally passed. We're moving to agenda nine. Ad.9. Giving consent to ratifying the Consulate Convention between BiH and the Republic of Turkey Report of the relevant commission you received. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this convention. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? Mr. Čengić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4301	The Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy considered bilateral agreements at its 31st session and, given that it is a common bilateral agreement, which defines according to the standard international standards of the obligation of one, or another country in consular affairs and deals very precisely with a number of issues, practices and 40 behaviours of consular representatives in relation to the citizens of our country in Turkey and vice versa. The Commission has proposed to the House to give its consent to the ratification of this Agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4302	I thank Mr. Čengić. We heard no more reports. I call on us to vote in favour of ratifying this convention. You can vote now. I thank and realize that we unanimously adopted a decision that we agreed to ratify the Consular Convention between BiH and the Republic of Turkey. We're going to the 10th point of the agenda. Ad.10. Giving consent to ratifying the agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Republic of Italy on the mutual regulation of international road transport of passengers and cargo You have received a report from the relevant commission. The House of Representatives has given evidence of ratification of this Convention. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4303	The Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy as the committee responsible at its 31st session also considered this bilateral agreement. And, given that it is a country that is extremely important for BiH, one of the most important in road traffic and, bearing in mind the fact that this bilateral agreement addresses passenger and goods transport issues in the usual way, as it is resolved in Europe, the Commission is making proposals and suggesting that the House give its consent to ratifying this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4304	I thank Mr. Čengić. Is there a need for someone to explain it on behalf of the promoter? There isn't. No demands. There's no record of a hearing. I call on us to come forward and give consent to ratify this agreement. You can vote. Thank you. I agree that we have unanimously reached a decision and agreed on a ratified agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Republic of Italy on the mutual regulation of international road transport of passengers and freight. 41 Ad.11. A report on the visits made by BiH institutions in the field of defence and security, with a proposal for subliminal conclusions and measures, submitted by the Joint Defence and Security Policy Committee. The House of Representatives adopted a report at its 55th session. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Boško Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4305	Thank you, Mr. President. It's very short. It's about the next activity. The Joint Parliamentary Defence and Security Committee, when visiting BiH institutions, is in a position to have some problems in the State Border Service, Interpol, BH MAK, SIP, etc. At one of the previous sessions, we have reached the conclusion that these visits, except that the working character and parliamentary supervision are that they will not only come to visit and that, after these visits are completed, we will reach certain conclusions and measures. I'll fly over very briefly, let's say in the State Border Service the problem is still open by hiring about 180 new jobs. In Interpol, to address the issue of accommodation of Interpol space, the adoption and proposal of certain legal and sublegal acts. In BH MAK, in order to strengthen BH MAK and improve the general security of citizens in BiH, it should also work on a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the demining law. Visiting the Agency for Investigation and Protection needs the Council of Ministers of BiH, a decision should be taken as soon as possible on the seat of the SIP regional office, covering the Brcko District, Tuzla Canton and Podrinj area, as these areas are completely outside SIP headquarters. The BiH Council of Ministers should make a decision on the permanent accommodation of the SIP as soon as possible, therefore, these are the problems we are partly familiar with. We are now putting them in the form of conclusions and measures, and I believe that by example of the House of Representatives that our home should also adopt this report by the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4306	I thank Mr. Šiljegović. Have there been any reports of a debate on this subject? I can't see. Mr. Limov wants to talk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4307	Oh, I have to at this point, there's no too much reason to spend a lot of time on this agenda. I wanted to, above all, give support to the relevant commission, which has proposed certain measures and recorded the situation and I think it is a good method, with 42 wishing to support this opportunity in particular a series of measures, which the Ministry of Defence, and of course we can bring that part into contact with these issues, in particular, bearing in mind what has been happening in recent days. From what counterpart Šiljegović has pointed out, it is true how much slowness there is, how many misunderstandings there is, the need to get tasks on this plan as soon as possible, in the sense of the corresponding fill-up and monitoring in an appropriate way by means of material means, by enabling the project, which is called SIP, BH MAK and other projects, because if we remember the reports signed by Minister Radovanović, it is also argued that we have the Ministry of Defence at the state level, which does not have adequate staffing and does not have adequate functional construction. This is very indicative, that in a whole series of these institutions at the state level we have almost the same problems and, in support of our commission's report, I think it is necessary to ensure continued activity and engagement of only the commission in terms of supervision of these institutions and I would welcome concrete proposals, especially when we talk about the budget for which the relevant commission will advocate in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4308	I thank Mr. Limov. No more reports. I call on us to plead and vote, or accept this report. You can vote. Thank you. I agree that with nine votes in favour, we adopted the Joint Commission's report on defence and security policy. We're moving to agenda 12. Ad.12. A special report by the Ombudsman on BiH's human rights complaints concerning the work of the BiH Council of Ministers, the co-operation of the BiH Council of Ministers with the Harolds for Human Rights, received a special report from the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH. At its 54th session, the House of Representatives adopted a report with the following conclusions. Here, I'll read these three conclusions for a while. 1. With the aim of ensuring the normal work of the Ombudsman for human rights of BiH, the BiH Council of Ministers, as well as other BiH institutions, is required to enable the BiH Ombudsman to investigate the allegations of complaints in a legally prescribed manner, i.e. the BiH Council of Ministers and other BiH institutions to follow the recommendations submitted by the Ombudsman. 2. With the aim of ensuring normal working conditions, the BiH Council of Ministers, the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury and other BiH institutions is required to ensure optimal conditions for the BiH Ombudsman, adequate equipment and sufficient funding necessary for the optimal work of the Ombudsman, as well as other financing, 43 including salaries, based on the Law on Human Rights of BiH, Official Messenger of BiH No. 19/02. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Human Rights of BiH, Official Messenger of BiH, No 35/04. which has been applied retroactively since 1.1.2004, and the internal acts of the Simeon BiH on the salaries of employees adopted under the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH. 3. The BiH Council of Ministers and other BiH institutions are obliged to provide other conditions for the normal functioning of the Ombudsman for human rights, with a view to achieving the highest standards in protecting human rights. This is a recognizance. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? I call on the Ombudsman, Mr. Marija Ljubić, to briefly state what this is all about so that we can adopt more concretely.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4309	The Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, I'll only take a moment. It is a single star, which also includes work on the subject matter and on the status issues of the institution. Maybe the timing's not good from this Special Report. It was done sometime at the 9th and 10th months last year. Given everything that's been going on around the Council of Ministers and everything else, it's a little late to come and discuss it and speak when we already have an annual report on the work of the BiH institution these days. The aim of this report was not criticism, for the sake of criticism itself, to improve communication with the Council of Ministers and to tell the ministry services to show much more sensitivity towards resolving citizens' cases. So you might see the report in detail. In some parts it can be said that it is sharp, but the conclusions are quite mild and I think these conclusions are already giving some results, because in some, and I say, the issues of this communication have improved, especially on the work of the case. I think that, therefore, the goal is not this, to say the debate, and at all the Special Report is, that indeed, the Council of Ministers, means that ministers, within the framework of their resolutions, commit their associates to a different one to say, a different relationship to this institution, which means there are no firm mechanisms and there is no way to say change, we do not pass judgments, but are very important reports of the Ombudsmen institution regarding the protection of human rights in the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why I say, it may be in some parts and detail, perhaps for someone the conclusions are too mild, but I think these conclusions can also produce results, if the Council of Ministers, means, if the ministers in the framework of their resolutions highlight the necessity of cooperation with the Ombudsman's human rights institution, that is how much thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4310	I thank Mr. Ljubić. Mr. Halid Genjac wants to talk. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4311	I think before the debate, I think it is very important to clarify whether the ombudsmen received a statement from the ministries on the Ombudsman's Special Report on Human Rights of BiH, which was the subject of a debate on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which is today the subject of the debate? Did the ombudsmen get a statement from the ministries because it was only a matter before the debate?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4312	Here you go. For a stenogram, introduce yourselves.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4313	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'm Professor Dr. Vitomir Popović, one of BiH's three ombudsmen and what my distinguished predecessor said earlier. I can answer this question asked by Mr Genjac, and until today, we do not have any co-operation with the Council of Ministers, that it is for the sake of this non-cooperation, and it will be seen in particular in our annual report, which will soon be delivered to the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives, as well as to other institutions, practically except for the conclusion of the House of Representatives and the BiH Presidency, so we do not have any co-operation. Some 70% of the lawyers from the institution, who are closely trained in the field of application of the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms and other instruments of human rights protection, therefore, from the Constitution of BiH and Annex VI, have left the institution, so, in the meantime, they have been hired by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council or elsewhere, so that in Sarajevo, we have practically another lawyer, of course in Banja Luka, three more, two have announced their departure and if something has not happened at the most recent time, so I will say that since June of last year, when a new law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Ombudsman was passed and by the end of the year, employees have not received any fees, and the Ombudsman has not received any fees since July of last year until today. So we did it for enthusiasm. We acted under the applicable Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights. So, we felt that the competent institutions, which, above all, have been subject to the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH, and which must primarily be familiar with the situation in the area of this institution and with complete non-cooperation, therefore, with the Council of Ministers, we have not been able to hold for a year now, and if we have repeatedly insisted on any meeting, therefore, with none of the ministers from the Council of Ministers, including the chairman, it is simply that it has only partially resulted in this report. In that annual report, you will see that the situation is very different. We have, unfortunately, many violations of human rights both from the Council of Ministers and from other institutions. We, therefore, acted within the framework of the current law, within the rules of the profession, so they kept an eye on what BiH's interests at this point were, therefore, certain obligations towards both the Court of Justice in Strasbourg and other human rights institutions. 45 Therefore, you have not received any report and it would be best to correctly discuss our report that we have been invited to give further interpretations of this report. So we feel obliged to say that the institution is not ahead of collapse, but practically before the collapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4314	I thank Professor Vitomir Popović. Here, we heard, not very nice findings. Who wants to talk more? Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4315	Of course, we have discussed this report at the Constitutional and Legal Commission and, of course, we were very surprised by the fact that this was the case, which was pointed out by the Special Report of Ombudsman and by today's debate, today's session, it is quite clear that this is one of the confirmation that the Council of Ministers refers to the preparation of an institution, which is in the Constitution of BiH. So this is not at least an institution, this is an institution, which legitimateizes us as a state, which has ambitions to approach the European Union and be a modern state, which takes care of human rights, as one of the key elements in assessing those we want to go about whether we are mature or not. If this report, which concerns, first of all, the relationship of our Council of Ministers, comes to any of the relevant subjects, who will decide on our fate, then it is quite logical that we will not have what we want and that our resolutions, which we are bringing, our stories, which we are talking about, the papers we are bringing, will not benefit from them, will be counterproductive. For me, this is the scandalous behaviour of the Council of Ministers in relation to the institution of the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4316	I thank Mr. Limov. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4317	I mean, how to get out of this. So on April 14th, we received a statement from the ministers on the Special Report, from a meeting of the Council of Ministers held on 12 April. And, it says here, indeed, that at that session, it is concluded that the statement is being delivered to the Parliamentary Assembly, which is a bit odd, because it is necessary for the Frankfurts to be able to provide every matter with a statement and now we are where we are and that is probably part of the case, just part of the subject and part of the Ombudsmen case statement of the ministries. Here, of course, there are more tables on the salaries of the ombudsman and the coefficients, which are reportedly greater than the coefficients in the other institutions. Today we hear their salaries are questionable. I think that today, in order to resolve this significant issue in a quality way, significant for the very institution itself, but because the issue of a single Ombudsman at BiH level is one 46 of the conditions of the feasibility study. We have brought the resolution today, and this question will be both in focus and in a microscope watching what is happening. So, at this point I'm expecting this debate in a different way today, so, yes, we have a statement, we have the Ombudsman's position to resolve it. However, we were in a position, perhaps it would be good at this moment, to reach a conclusion to the House of Nations, to ask the Council of Ministers for a special session, to which we would call the Ombudsmans and to provide information to the House of Peoples after that debate, common information on what it is and to see what it is to do after that information. I, indeed, at this point, except for these conclusions, which we have brought and adopted on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, I don't see what we can do without the Council of Ministers in full capacity here, because all the ministries are affected here and it's all the ministries and all the ministers. We cannot, unanimously, conduct a quality debate today, without presence, except for principle and general formulas to support the Ombudsmans, to say, but what is the subject of the Ombudsmen's report and what is obvious is becoming a problem, I think it would be good to ask the Council of Ministers for a special session to call the Ombudsman and to resolve these issues at that session and to inform the Parliamentary Assembly about it. We can ask it to be 15 days, 20 days, I don't know, because it's really urgent. That's what at this point, it seems to me, we can do.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4318	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4319	I think we all agree that, at this point, there are conditions for a serious debate on this issue, at least for two reasons. The first is that here the meddusmen, or their office or office, have not received a statement from the Council of Ministers on their report, so now we cannot hear their comment, and without their comment, we cannot know whether there has been a change, whether there has been an improvement, whether these answers in any way meet the standards and criteria that the Ombudsman leads to in his work. On the other hand, we have a situation where there is currently no one representing the Council of Ministers. I must admit that for me, it was mildly said scandalously that the Ombudsmen of BiH, do not receive salaries from half last year, and as far as I know from the media, something about it was before the speech. The entity receives significant wages. What does that mean? I also know that a serious debate is being held, how to resolve the Ombudsmen issue in BiH, that there is an idea to find some solution to integrate it into an institution. Is this now an attempt by someone to, in fact, act like this, get into a situation where we lose the institution that we have and that's prescribed by the Constitution and get into a situation where, before the talks next month with the European Commission, we have a question that we cannot answer. If we don't have a clear picture of this, of the questions that are post..., if we don't have a clear picture of how we're going to solve this problem, we don't need any more problems with the European Commission. That's enough to keep us from moving on. We don't have to worry about any other problems to invent, we don't need action plans anymore, we don't need any more implementation of other issues, that's enough. I think this is really alarming, that this is serious and that I'm afraid that any delay in this, just every one day delay is dangerous and harmful. On the one hand, the first is harmful to the rights of those who have been violated in their rights, and the other is in general harmful to the state of BiH and to the perception of the position of Ombudsman, the position of the Council of Ministers, or Governments, etc. And, last one. I don't think the Parliamentary Assembly and this home should allow themselves to play ping-pong over the heads of this house, whoever it is. We cannot discuss this, conclude, leave for the next session of the House, and again for the next session of the House and do not resolve these issues. I think we've had two oppositions here. One is, the one proposed by Dr. Genjac, who is probably realistic, but I'm afraid it's too late. I'm afraid, on the contrary, it's too late to leave for another 15 days. The second option is to try, perhaps take a break now and ask that after half an hour, after an hour here at this current meeting of the House of Nations, a representative of the Council of Ministers or representatives of the Council of Ministers, who are authorised to present the views and positions of the Council of Ministers on the issue, appear. For me, then, the previous question is even the position of the Ombudsman. As the Council of Ministers thinks about solving problems, is it true that, because I apologize to the gentlemen as if they can't organize, so they can't be transferred from the vault if there's someone who has so much knowledge and will to organize a gentleman who doesn't know how to organize himself so that he finally starts to pay or that's simply a way for people who are respectable and for whom there's one whole human career of respect in their business, that, therefore, they are being demeaning and that we come into a situation that, possibly by some new choice, when they get tired, we choose some people who will be more willing. I apologize for this discussion, but when I see problems, which are there, then I can no longer think of it as a question of momentum, that it's a question I don't have time for, that the question is tomorrow we're going to, and that the question is that we didn't agree on that question, and especially that the question is that someone is not well-organised that the vault can transfer his pay money. That's, I mean, inadmissible stuff. And, so please, I, I really think of it as a really important question. I think the only time we have to stop this session right now is to ask for representatives of the Council of Ministers who can discuss this and continue to discuss these issues before we finally decide what to do next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4320	I thank the gentleman. Mr. Pamuk, then Mr. brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4321	Thank you. You see, it's very good when we have reporters on important agenda points, and this is that if Mr. Ombudsman hadn't exposed his problem and the institution's problem, we'd probably adopt something that we shouldn't possibly adopt. 48 Here we can discuss, in my opinion, as much as we want and, we'll be left with a lot of things unclear. My proposal is next. The Constitutional and Legal Commission of our home, representatives of the government and the Ombudsman, should sit very seriously, to discuss the problem more closely and to come to this home with a proposal for a solution to the problem, and I think it should happen next week and somewhere at the end of next week. Our Domće will be, on occasion, today we have spoken to something on 12 May and that our commission, together with the Ombudsmans and the Council of Ministers, comes out with a proposal for a solution to the problem. Everything else is, a story that won't end until that act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4322	Thank you. Mr. brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4323	Mr. Mustafa took everything I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4324	Okay, here's our thinking, so Mr. Pamuk's thinking, Mr. Čengić, Mr. Genjac thought the same thing. Mr. Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4325	...be careful who followed, Mr Tomislav Limov said – this was on the Constitutional and Legal Commission. The Constitutional and Legal Commission of the House of Peoples, Mr Mustafa, has done part of the work that has given full support to this commission, supported their conclusions. You are now giving us something again, we said we support the work of the Ombusmen with conclusions, not to repeat them, and Mr Genjac also told the House of Peoples with representatives of the Council of Ministers, or Council of Ministers. You are now returning to the Commission. I don't accept that part of the assignment. The Constitutional and Legal Commission has given full support, not to repeat Mr Čengić, but here we do not have a relevant representative of the Council of Ministers and their part of the report. What Mr. Čengić was saying. Don't go back to Constitutional Law. Believe me, we've been working.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4326	If I may, a little replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4327	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4328	I have to say, I remember very well and these discussions and everything. However, the Council of Ministers' relationship to the conclusions of this House, I do not know how it stands with the House of Representatives is such that I can safely, I can determine that it is very bad and 49 I think that on these talks with the relevant people of the Council of Ministers who have so far had to give answers to the questions asked by the Ombusmen institutions must, it must be said why they have not done so far, whether they have views on these issues and what is further to be done to make the institution function. I have to say that it's illogical to say that we accept the report, but we're also dealing with the situation, so we're going over this, which the professor just said at the pay phone that people are still left to work without pay, that people are standing in a completely unsolved status, and that we're asking them to protect citizens, or to protect human rights. How is that possible? I suggest that our home, our commission, once again, I pray, include, and try to solve this problem more what may happen in the near future that we will suffer significant consequences because of the unresolved problem in this area. Thank you very much. Boško, I'm asking for your understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4329	I thank Mr. Mustafa. Mr. brkati, then Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4330	Very short. After Boško who said what he said, in principle I agree with him. But what's the solution? That's not the answer for me. That's why I'm on this trail that Mustafa was talking about because, look out, we all want to be nice and gentle and correct. But it is unacceptable to me as a man that we here today had Mr. Terzić, who spoke as he spoke and what we understood. Mr. Terzić knew that we had this item of the agenda here today, and he probably should have, should have known whether Mr. ombusmen got what they were supposed to get or didn't get, and he was supposed to come here today with a lady who runs the Ministry of Finance and Treasury and that here, if we don't extend the matter. But we can't handle it ourselves here today. I'm about to get rid of it, not go on forever. Here's a minute ago, we'll have a gentleman whisper in 15 days. We're done. I don't want them to be finished. But I don't believe any of you here want them to be finished and that's why this is the solution. Or let's take a break now and call Mr. Terzić with the minister, if they have a solution, let them tell us right away. Have him tell us now, or we'll accept what Mr. Pamuk said that I agree with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4331	Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4332	It is evident that we, in this regard, are being held hostage by irresponsible relations, above all by the Council of Ministers. It's not just about status, it's about a series of things the ombusmen warned about in their special report. This return to the commission is somewhat similar to that of Churchill, I believe that the solution should be sought by the Council of 50 ministers, and if it is to be organised next week a thematic debate with just one agenda point where the entire Council of Ministers and we here with the ombusmen will see what we will do. I, as a Parliamentarian, and even as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, call on the Ombusmen to take advantage of all their legal opportunities and powers on the issue, there are solutions here and they can in a certain way protect them. Which is gonna hurt all of us. They are not responsible but above all by the Council of Ministers. So, I suggest that next week we organise a session with a thematic debate with one point and solve this, because the consequences will be catastrophic.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4333	Here, after a longer debate with most of them, we now have more reports. Mr. Đoko Pajić and Mr. Boško Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4334	Well, here's the lady and gentlemen I'd like just a few sentences. We've heard from Mr Popović that the Ombusmen institution is about to collapse. Indeed, most colleagues are on their way to protect the institution from falling apart so that our institutions function in any case. But there's something here that I can't tell you about right now whether the ombusmen are right or right about the Council of Ministers or the Minister of Finance and Treasury, etc. In addition to whether there is a statement by certain ministries on certain issues, we have a statement from the Ministry of Finance and the vault where they remain in question. I don't know now whether they're right or not where they're questioning the pay-out coefficients. So on this page 5, the finance ministry's report says that the ombusmen have issued a payment ban until they've been provided with guarantees that retroactively something will be paid. I don't know who's right now? Whether you're right or they're right and I'm on my way to what Mr. Limov says, we should now be representatives of both of us and of each other and of the others and to clarify what it is. You side have it. On the other hand, we again have the Presidency conclusions where, under point 3, corrections to the Ombusmen institution are supported, and here at the Ministry of Finance and the vaults are slowing it down, etc. etc. So certain contradictions exist and it's very difficult right now for me to say whether they're right, both or third. It may, therefore, be more logical for me, however, that when a debate is being held on this issue, all of these relevant factors that have made certain recommendations, initiatives, opinions, conclusions, etc. to bring it together and find a certain solution. It's hard for me to say anything right now on this point. There, that's it, I don't know what else to say. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4335	Mr. Šiljegović, if he did not give up, and behind that, Mr. Popović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4336	No, it's not. Here, I suggest something that might unite more activity. In fact, I suggest one conclusion that would go this way. I'm not sensitive at all if you don't accept. The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina adopted, i.e. to adopt a Special Report on Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as a report by the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum of the House of Representatives with Conclusions, as the committee responsible in the House of Representatives adopted the Ombusmen Special Report with certain conclusions, I do not know them, the report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission to the House of Peoples with Conclusions. If these three things won't give this situation serious so that I don't repeat it and make the Council of Ministers serious on the need to resolve this, I don't know what would happen. So comprehensively, here are all these conclusions, but to adopt the Ombusmen Special Report with the report of the Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum Commission of the House of Commons and Conclusions Committee. We did it, but it's not at all, and if we put it all together, I think we'd get to, if it would satisfy our own ombsmen.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4337	Mr. Vitomir Popović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4338	Thank you. This particular relationship we have today, we have had at the House of Representatives, and we have had on all committees. Never have the representatives of the Council of Ministers responded to any of those meetings we discussed. And we didn't do this in our own personal name, but in the name of the institution, because we thought it would be really awkward to find all this, for example. Before the Council of Europe or any other body, therefore, that monitors implementation and achieves the level of human rights development in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's one of the main questions and we also appreciated, be careful, there's no contradiction. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Human Rights was adopted on a proposal from the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, and the Venice Commission previously asked that Ombusmen Bosnia and Herzegovina be equal with the rank of Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitutional Court Judges and it is written in amendments and additions to the law that was adopted here and here before this house in June last year. And it's not the Ombusmen's salary, so it's not the wrong conclusion, it's the attitude towards the institution. Ombusmen are practically independent in this sense. We, it is understood that they cannot go beyond the budget that was planned for them. For the past year, about 52 over 200 thousand marks have been withdrawn from the Ombusmen institutions, and this year our budget has been reduced by another 300,000 marks. Therefore, the salary of a cleaning woman in the Ombusmen of Republika Srpska and the Federation is higher than that of the Ombusmen for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but to ignore the Ombusmen for Human Rights. What about the staff, then? Seventeen lawyers who are closely specialized and trained to deal with European conventions, so without which we cannot work, simply cannot survive has gone to other institutions. Therefore, under the Human Rights Law, we have financial independence within that budget and it clearly states in that law. So neither the Council of Ministers nor anyone else can question the application of this law. So only the one who passed that law, possibly in giving some interpretations, etc. You can't, I mean we worked all last year, until the end of the year we didn't have insurance. Imagine someone getting hurt on the road, and we often travel, etc. How do you think we don't have a pension, no health or any other insurance, etc. Here, that's why the institution came into that position. So we wrote it last year, so now the situation is even more drastic because this report refers to the period he was referring to, so we've been trying in every possible way to talk except for that Šakota who apriori refused any conversations and lectured that employees in the Ombusmen institutions can't be more paid than workers in the authorities. Well, it doesn't matter anywhere in the world, it's a special institution that has special status, so. The state must determine whether it will have or will not, and its standards are established everywhere, therefore, throughout the world. So this is what I just looked at. There's nothing new practical about it, they didn't write anything in that sense that. I think perhaps these conclusions that were adopted at the House of Representatives so that they could get caught, but let it be an additional conclusion that we talk to them because what we have left to write now to the Council of Europe and that we are now really discussing in Strasbourg. And it will certainly be a disgrace and not just us as institutions. It doesn't matter how long we stay in that institution, but let's not even have our reputation so that we keep it in an instant and do whatever it wants, etc. But what's most dangerous is that the institution is falling apart, and we have to say that at both the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, and of course there will be resistance to the unification of these institutions, because someone would unite from a better position to a worse position. Right? If we think we are unable to provide human rights for neither ourselves, then how can we talk about protecting human rights for all of you in general for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Not at all. So there are ombusmen everywhere in the ranks of the highest institutions and the law has been changed on the proposal of the Venice Commission and the Presidency. I wasn't even at the Ombusman then. So it happened long before that and it says that the law applies from 1st, so 1. That's a legal provision, then. Now someone can't say it's indisputable to him, etc. No one can say they won't apply the law. Then how can we apply the Ombusman Act if someone wants to apply any of the laws we call upon? So it's one situation that I think is unacceptable, no matter who's going to be Ombusmen in the future. And we have now, please, gentlemen, just to add a practical proposal for a new law to which we have, on several occasions, indicated that such a law cannot go. It doesn't make any sense, least of all. Once again, personnel are being leveled and ranked, so workers in the authorities of the administration. So again, they're probably returning some balls now, even though we were elected here last year in front of the two-thirds majority in front of one and the other home. So they put those ombsmen in transition status. I'm saying we don't matter, but we're treating the world insecurely. Who will take us seriously, therefore, if we talk about the application of the European conventions and the highest standards, so if we have such a relationship with the institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4339	I thank Mr Popović. Here I think we can still try to bring this to an end the next way. So this is clearly about the conflict between the two institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That may be a bit of a tough finding, but that's maybe. However, I think it would be good to look for a solution to what has already been said here, so on the basis of the conclusions of our committee, constitutionally-ustavno-pravni, and these conclusions are very similar to these conclusions adopted in the House of Representatives and I would like it to be a backbone for us and possibly these conclusions, if we need to supplement with perhaps another conclusion in the end that I do not know in the end what time the representatives of the Council of Ministers are, but we will not say, but representatives, whether it is the Ministry of Finance, whether it is the Prime Minister, his deputies, etc. They meet again with Ombusmen representatives and agree on a way to address this problem, and according to these conclusions that follow, so these three conclusions that will be before this last one that I foresee, i.e. I suggest that it be in the sense that they must meet and agree on how to deal with it. Otherwise, if it is not in that direction, I fear that this misunderstanding or crisis will deepen, that the functions of the Ombusmen will come into question whether or not there can be at all and especially work, and I think we are still reporting here, but actually the role of Parliament is, and that these issues are also being discussed and looking for solutions. Here's someone I think Mr. Čengić answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4340	I think we're very close to a solution that will satisfy two aspects. So one formal and one thing. What Mr. Šiljegović suggested as a proposal for the conclusion of our home definitely meets the documents under quotes. Does this mean that our conclusions will be read, especially by someone who responds and carries out their obligations effectively, that is now another question? I'm going to express restraint here so I don't say doubt that someone will apply them. So in order for that not to happen, I suggest that, with the proposal for a conclusion proposed by Mr Šiljegović, we add just one more conclusion. 54 - Sobzir the fact that it is expected in the very near time as I understood the Ombusmen's annual report, it would be perhaps within the next two weeks, to get that annual report, and then in the second half of May, we would schedule a special session of this house where, I will say, the Council of Ministers would therefore be present at the Council of Ministers and Ombusmeni. Whether it will be the Council of Ministers in full session, or in a meeting that is adequate to discuss these issues is not ours to decide. Let the Council of Ministers decide who will be present in preparation for the session. But apparently that several types of bilateral negotiations etc. I can't function this way. I may say that at some point perhaps our presence may be beneficial and that a little bit about these certain requirements on the one hand and on the other is flexibility, so that we find final solutions to how to get out of this situation, but definitely this home doesn't think it can stay just at the conclusion that it can't follow any further. I therefore propose that, in the conclusion of Mr Šiljegovic, I propose the following conclusion - that within a month, within a month, the House of Nations will hold a special session at which to discuss the report so that the Ombusmen report will be discussed annually and the position of resolving issues, the current issues of the work of Ombusmen Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the presence of, no, I thought, but after all, I think it can. So with the mandatory presence of the Council of Ministers. Well, I'm not saying this by heart, I've already talked to the ombs here, Mr. Mustafa, and I've been given the assurance that this could be one solution that would have been in front of me at the same time and the annual report and all the other questions, had a review of any changes, perhaps better, not Bog and worse, and then to discuss all these issues in one place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4341	Okay. This is one sublime conclusion, I just don't know this last one if it's a good solution. I think it would be better to, however, have some deadline for the Council of Ministers to settle this issue in agreement with the ombusmen, rather than have us schedule our session, because our session won't solve anything until this is resolved. We'll only be a month away from getting to know the fact that it hasn't been solved, but it doesn't mean much to us, at least I think so. Mario, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4343	Well, I might talk a little too much, but I don't think there's a need, the annual report will definitely come, it'll need to be discussed, I guess there'll be then and the chairman for sure, ministers who will give their position. 55 As far as I'm concerned, I wouldn't like any special sessions on this matter, because it's already turned out in this report that we're more concerned about telling the status issues of the Ombusmen and I can say, I looked at it a little, because there was only one, there was one very interesting letter from Minister Marić, which simply in one way turns out to me very inappropriately like that, you know, they want this, they want that. They will if they need to, I'm willing to work without pay, as long as I'm going to work, but I should say the same, but she and some others should know what the budget of one institution is, what is the second, what is the third, to see if this institution has been doing rationally. This institution has three Ombusmen and one deputy has, now there is no more of that deputy, unlike the federal one who has three Ombusmen, 13 deputies, 14 assistants and I to tell you openly to me, and this salary that was higher than ever was, but it is inappropriate for me to have a federal Ombudsman and an outbound of Republika Srpska 2.5 times the salary. So you don't need it here, I think it's quite enough, I think as a representative of the institution I think it's great that you adopt this report and support the report on the work means, this special report, and we'll be able to fight for the rest of our rights. At the very least, they have an instance that solves you. I'm just the Council of Ministers, I thought they'd do the right thing if they didn't recognise our decisions made by the institutions in accordance with the law. They could have finely as a conflict of jurisdiction between the two institutions in front of the Constitutional Court to launch a constitutional assessment of whether we have the right to adopt acts on wages and others, which we have the right to do. So that's the basic question, which is why I don't think it should be too much right now because it's going to look like we're only dealing with the status issues of the Ombusmen. That'll work out how to get rid of it. Here I don't know if I can speak on behalf of my colleagues, but really, as far as I'm concerned, I don't need any special session on this matter, and I'm fine with this attitude today and these conclusions, and I think that in the adoption of this law on amendments to the law, it can be an indication of how to set up and how to position this institution of the Ombusmen for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina to be and effective and to cost the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina a lot less. Thank you and forgive me for being so direct, but I feel like I should have.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4344	I thank Mr. Ljubić. Here, we also had in mind these suggestions from Mr. Ljubić. I think we can still, I'll try to suggest conclusions now. So our first conclusion is that we accept the Ombusmen BiH Special Report. To have the second conclusion, or the next three to be these conclusions from the House of Representatives, I don't know if you have them on you, I think they're good, pretty good and inclusive 56 and to add another one at the end and say that we expect or ask the representatives of the Council of Ministers and the Ombusmen that this one here is put into practice and solved. And we can say that we wouldn't be, I don't know, the need for some other solutions, here's Mario here mentioned one of these solutions possible, so at the Court eventually, it's known how it goes, etc. Now, if you're up to these conclusions, I think they might be some sort of sublime of what we've been talking about here today for almost an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4345	/away from the microphone.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4346	Yes, it is, of course. Of course, of course. Yes, and theirs is the same. It's all there. Okay. Then I invite you to come to this conclusion who's in favour? ...we unanimously adopted these words and we ended up with the 12th agenda. We're moving on to the 13th, which is Ad.13. Information on export licences issued for the import of arms and military equipment You have received information from the Council of Ministers on import and export licences for arms and military equipment issued. At his 54th session, the House of Representatives discussed the Information and adopted the following conclusions, under 1. Information shall be accepted from the Council of Ministers on the import licences issued for the import of re-purchase and military equipment. 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking the Federation of BiH Parliament to fulfil its legal obligation and to carry out the transfer of power over the dedicated industry with the Federation of BiH Ministry of Defence to the second relevant civilian ministry as soon as possible. 3. In case of failure to fulfil its legal obligation, Parliament of the Federation should be aware of its responsibility. This means, to inform the conclusions of the House of Representatives. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Šiljegović. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4347	Thank you, Mr. President. The Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy and Oversight discussed the information mentioned. She adopted these same conclusions as the House of Representatives. So we made a recommendation to one home and another to adopt these conclusions. I see the House of Representatives has adopted these three conclusions. I also suggest to the House of Peoples that they accept the conclusions of the parliamentary commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4348	Thank you. Is there any further to raps? There isn't. I'm closing the debate and calling for a plea. I suggest we adopt these conclusions as Mr. Boško Šiljegović puts it. You can vote. Thank you. I find that we unanimously adopted the conclusions spoken. We move to the 14th item of the agenda, which is Ad.14. Discussion Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2004 You received a report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2004. The House of Representatives adopted a report at its 53rd session. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Čengić, or we'll go before the institution's representative. Please, while you're here, Mr. Salkić. Cengic's guests have the advantage.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4349	Respected presidency, respected delegates, I don't think there's any need to convince the report. You got him. Perhaps when we set out in this order to make a small comment on the conclusions of the committee responsible at the House of Peoples, because we had about a month ago, or there was a meeting of the committee on which I was present, and then the commission made a number of conclusions that were delivered to you. And now that something has changed, I would prefer to comment on those few changes since that time. So in the last 30 days. The first conclusion referred to deadlines in our report. We have also listed several planning tasks for this year and the commission, the committee responsible for the House of Peoples is, I will not say that it has set a deadline, but it has said, we are expected to adopt some of these most important documents that are practically under the legal acts by the end of May of this year. I can say that in the past week, after those documents previously adopted, we haven't adopted a rule that defines the tariff methodology, 58 of the very important documents. We adopted the Licens Regulation and it will be published these days in the Official Messenger of BiH and has already been published on the site today, following a debate that lasted about two months with all stakeholders, i.e. participants in the electricity market. And the third document mentioned here, it's a methodology for calculating tariffs, so one completely new document that may be one of the most important documents regarding the work of both these committees and the two entity committees, we re-established the second draft, we have referred it to a public debate, and we expect it to be adopted within two weeks. This has led us to assume that the commission can do its part of the work in that domain. As you know, this regulatory commission is responsible for Bosnia and Herzegovina's transmission system, for the operator of Bosnia and Herzegovina's system and for international trade. In this way, we create assumptions, and by the end of May, in May, we will have basic assumptions that we can do in that part of the work that is prescribed by law. I'm not going to comment on conclusion number two, that's something we're being suggested for the next period. Further on, this information we're about to provide. And there may be two questions left where we were then discussing some of our intention to address the Council of Ministers and Parliament, meaning one and the other home in terms of a warning or a milder one, one requirement that certain processes that are related to the electricity sector and above all to the scope of the Commission's work be kind of accelerated. I have to say, in the meantime, somewhere the same day that I think there was a meeting there, that those two questions that we were talking about were practically raised. The prime minister today seemed to tell me when it came to forming a joint transmission company and system operators was the problem of appointing boards of directors, and that was the basic prerequisite for these two institutions to live before some, if I am not mistaken for 7 or 10 days, are appointed members of the board of directors. I think today is the first session of the Independent Operator System Management Board, so we expect that within 2 to 3 months we will have practically established, at least in the formal legal sense of these two institutions as a basic precondition for the start of reforms, i.e. to continue reform in this sector. The next thing you know, it was very important. She's also mentioned today. It is a matter of action plan in the Federation of BiH. I must say, in Republika Srpska, that plan was adopted earlier, and it seems to me that a little and more has moved away, if we are talking about implementation, or the Federation. According to the information I have certain legal frameworks are kind of agreed, I don't think they've been adopted by the government yet, but as far as I understand from today's discussion and the information we got somewhere three or four days ago, attitudes have been brought together when it comes to the change in the Federation's action plan, and soon that part of the job would have been completed. These are the basic assumptions for continuing reform in the power sector. As long as I'm here, I have to say that we're doing fully harmonised or... with two entity commissions that are responsible for the distribution system and production and 59 supply when it comes to these basic acts, they're here somewhere and in those commissions and I believe somewhere in May or June that these commissions will end up doing that part of the job so that what's being drawn out is that the first tariffs, or the first licenses will be issued, or adopted by the end of the year. It will most likely be accomplished. As far as these State Regulatory Commissions are concerned, this job has advanced, and it will absolutely be done within the deadlines set. The issue of forming these two institutions, meaning the transmission company and the system operator, I think it will soon be resolved, even in the situation of certain problems, and obviously that independent member will have to react, but as far as I know by adopting, or appointing board members from both the Federation and Republika Srpska, and that issue has been resolved and I think it will soon start intensively in further work. And, Krakto, I was already speaking at the House of Representatives, it is probably known that it is in preparation, i.e. it has already been initialled by an international binding, international legal act, i.e. a binding act dealing with the regional market in Southeast Europe. This is a continuation of the implementation of the business agreed, regulated by the Athenian memos signed in 2002 and 2003. It was scheduled to be done by the end of June. The latest information is likely to be adopted in September, and has already been initialled by all participating states. So an agreement that treats the South East European regional market as one market that would probably be in the most recent time, and perhaps at the beginning of 2008, has been fully combined with the EU's internal market, so it is likely that this sector should be one of the first to be absolutely integrated into the EU market. Here, so much as I don't repeat what's already written. If there are certain questions, I am at your disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4350	I thank Mr. Salkić. Mr. Čengić reporting. Mr. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4351	So here, since Mr Salkić has already presented the fact that what was the situation when we had a debate on the commission on this report, I can only say that this example, and you have seen that according to his report at least half of the conclusions that the commission has made that it should be half the tasks listed by the commission that should be done, have already been done. It's about a month, a little more than when we had a committee session. And the other half is running. Of course this shows two things. First, all these questions that Mr Salkić was talking about include the questions of the energy sector or the energy sector as mentioned in the letter, mentioned in Commissioner Oli Ren's letter and in the letter, or mentioned in the letter, mentioned in Commissioner Olli Ren's letter, and he insists that his data be speeded up. At the time he wrote the letter, they were well out of date, which we are pleased to see. So 60's done a lot compared to what he was saying. However, I would like to remind you that our commission has asked the Council of Ministers to take action on the implementation of obligations relating to the Law establishing a company for the transfer and establishment of an independent operator, so not only the adoption of the board of directors, but also a complete strategy, at the same time, to develop a full strategy of the electricity system in the Federation. To conclude, we received this report with the suggestions we gave, suggesting and suggesting that for next year, the report for next year we have little more details, plans, etc. but we believe that one is positive, so one mood of the commission to do its job and to cooperate with Parliament either this time of benefit and we believe that this report is satisfactory for the past period and we expect the results that are from now on and in the coming period to be even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4352	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Đoko Pajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4353	I'll just have two sentences. Here is the first time we have on the agenda a report from one of the proposing representatives, or one who reports to us. We've often discussed the need to be present here to give us some explanations about these points of the agenda. I'm going back to what we initiated at a series of previous meetings. And this should be an example after Mr. Salkić's brief, precise exposure is clear and so in the future everyone else should refer to the materials that this home receives.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4354	I thank Mr. Pajić. Keep going. Here's a question I'd like to ask you. I'd like to use Mr. Salkić here. Therefore, the establishment and adoption of rules on tariff procedure, tariff methodology and public debates. I wonder, if it's not a secret, if you've already got it ready to answer so what are the most important changes in intensity in the future policy of prices in the tariff system that you're preparing? Because there's this story that's going to go significantly, what's down there now is going to go up and vice versa. So, if it's not a problem, I think it's interesting for both the public and the representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4355	I will probaću briefly, although you will know that tomorrow the tariffs that will be taken by the regulatory commissions will reflect approximately the work of the two commissions, the Federation of the State Commission and the Federal Commission and the Republika Srpska State Commission and the Republika Srpska Commission. 61 But it is the exact same principles, i.e. the same principles that have been introduced in Europe, or the world. The basic difference with the situation so far, although we have convinced that this principle has been so far, the first postulate is that prices will be set on the cost principle. It means that only those eligible costs will be able to enter the price, and the basic postulate means through... or the cost principle of setting prices and allowing market participants who are engaged in activities in the field of energy to achieve what is said to be a fair return to the funds invested and to be recognised as eligible costs. That's the first thing. Another thing that is very important, and that is something that may potentially affect certain changes in the tariff system tomorrow, but I must say immediately before I express what the EU is in its directives and in these activities that are guided by the regular market is being sought and all changes are said to occur in a transitional period that will be, which will probably take some 5 to 10 years in advance. And the basic differences will be that they will try to avoid, eventually they will have to avoid, as they say cross-subsidisation. Which means we have one system of tariffs that's so-called. Inverse types of tariffs where due to certain policies and ways of managing that system where they are to protect certain categories of consumers, electricity prices have been reduced for that consumer category, and in order to achieve some total revenue that would be necessary for the operation of these electricity undertakings, other consumers have been unfairly burdened by prices that are not appropriate. This will practically mean that, let's say, but this is not to be taken as a final solution first, but in a further future, when I say further, it's maybe 5 or 10 years old that it's going to change the ratio of tariffs when it comes to household and commercial consumption. We mean, first of all, small businesses, because now whoever monitors the tariff system knows that significantly higher consumer prices, let's say at low voltage commercial, or households for no reason whatsoever, while receiving energy means the same voltage. There's probably going to be some movement here. There shouldn't be much movement in the industry. So what are the changes to the state so far? The full cost principle, avoiding subsidisation, rather than fixing tariffs in a way that reflects costs at any starting level, either low voltage or medium voltage, as well as these high voltage industrial consumers. And the next thing is the possibility that already in the coming year certain consumers, primarily industrial consumers, will get the opportunity to choose their supplier on the market from one level of consumption. So the gradual opening of the market within this trinity, which will be signed, is expected on 1 January 2008 that commercial consumers have the same option, and the deadline that was set for households is likely to move from 2010 to 2015. So somewhere in 2015, the market should be completely liberalized. So every consumer whether he is a household or an industry, or a commercial consumer will be able to choose his supplier according to the prices, and the commission will only regulate what is a monopoly, and that is, I call it wire, means distribution and transmission. That's it, if that's it. 62 And just one thing to say, I apologize. So far, it has been a practice for the three of us, this is a three-member commission, this year, i.e. by the end of the 6th month of this year, chaired by Mr Dokić last year. In the next period it will be Mr. Željko Topić. We usually all three attend sessions, but this time they're busy with other things that I'm just on their behalf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4356	Thank you, Mr. Salkić. I think this was interesting to hear. So, thanks for the explanation. No more reports. The debate is closed. We're pleading on the report. We can vote. Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted the 2004 report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity. Moving to the 15th point of the Ad.15 agenda. The proposal for a candidate for the Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications of the Council of Ministers submitted a proposal for a candidate. At the 53rd session, the House of Representatives held members of the Council as proposed by the Council of Ministers. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I suggest we make a statement on the proposal for a candidate for members of the Council. We can plead. Here you go. A total of 5, versus 2, abstention 3. So by entities from Federation 2 for. So there's no entity majority. Agreeing with members of the College. Let's just figure out how to work this out. Will the College meet immediately, I ask this question, will it work Boško? So Boško is a member of the College when Mr. Milojević is gone, is that clear? Please. Shall we postpone? Well, as soon as someone says they can't, at least the meeting, it's over. We didn't agree. Yes, it is. The Federation of BiH, therefore. We're pleading who's against it? If there are 2/3 of those present against the decisions, it's not over. The chosen, excuse me. Okay. Let's go. 63 So we're pleading who's in the Federation against? So red is against it, it counts as against it. Who's against it? You can vote now. We vote from the Federation. Wait, we didn't all vote. But there are 2,4,6,7 MPs from the Federation. Let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, I'm just calling for us to stick to the vote and everybody to vote. A vote can be voted for, abstentioned and against. Let's not have an abstinence. If it's not voted at all, then this isn't over for me now. So this is it. So they only voted what, 4 and 4 means 100%. Of course. But I can't help it, they have to, then they're not in the hall. Then there's no quorum. So if at least six people didn't vote, then there's no Federation quorum. Yeah, yeah, sure. That's right. No, no, I said good. So if six people didn't vote, then there's no Federation quorum, because you can't be here and you can't vote. I think so. Please. Well, we have to do it again because it has to vote six people, because there's no vote. Mr. Genjac has something to say. He doesn't seem to agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4357	You can't hear exposure.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4358	Look, here so it doesn't happen if someone didn't accidentally understand something, then you need to see six votes, that six people voted. Whatever they want, it's their business. Of course everyone's. Go ahead. It's a noose.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4359	I really don't understand that he can, I admit that the Genjac knows better than I do, the Rules of Procedure. He really knows better than I do. I admit it. But watch out for something, can't it pass something without anyone voting for it? It doesn't have a menu.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4360	In the first round, two voted yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4361	Well, in the first round. Look, if no one's in, look out, no one's in, and it can go through. People can't do that, don't make it. I'm not that stupid. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4362	Okay. So we're repeating the Federation vote. Six people should vote. So we vote, we count as we are, so yes, abstention and against. You can vote now. Okay. So against five abstentions, two were voted by all. The vote is regular and the decision has passed. About Selection
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4363	You can't hear exposure.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4364	It's a constitutional category, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4365	It's no good in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4366	So that nothing can be solved. According to our current rules of procedure, the decision has passed. _________(?) Of those present, or of those present, or Of the total number of selected. Tajniče as it says in the Constitution. Leave the Rules of Procedure, come on. It's in the Constitution. Who has the Constitution? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Wait a minute, three minutes break. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4368	Let me tell you this is Article 4.2 d) of the Constitution of BiH. - All decisions in both homes are made by the majority of those present to vote. Delegates and members will make the most of their efforts to include at least 1/3 of the envoys or members of the territory of each entity. If most do not include 1/3 of the votes of the envoys or members of the territory of each entity, the chairman and his deputies will work as a commission to seek agreement within 3 days of the vote. 65 If these efforts fail, the majority of those present and voting on the condition that votes against do not include 2/3 or more envoys or members elected from each entity will be made. So this case should be 7 votes against to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4369	...so far 100 times convinced. Seven lawyers, eight opinions. Don't tell me anything about the Constitution. No one in the world can prove to me that they can go through something and that seven people should vote for it not to vote and go through it. Get me 20 constitutional court presidents 20 states can't convince me of that. No one can convince me of that. Don't interpret it to me. I've had a chance to work so far, this is my year in Parliament, I've been in the Federation twice, and I've been here a second time, and I've had meetings with different lawyers. Seven of them eight opinions, I can never put together. And that's not relevant to yours to me. I'm sorry, I respect you, but it's just an interpretation to me that there's something that I can do without anyone voting for it, that's out of my mind, or I'm a fool. Or let's disband this house, we don't need seven people saying no, and that goes away. Then this house doesn't need it. What's he gonna do? What's this home for? You don't have to. Let's get him out of here. He's... because he's not asking anything. If seven people don't want to be, and that goes away, then we're really court-crazed crazy here. And I don't want to be a court fool. Don't interpret it that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4370	Okay. We're going to the 16th agenda. Ad.16. A full order of order from the Serb people instead of Nada Radović in the committees of the House of Peoples I pray the chairman of the Club of the Serbian People Mr. Šiljegović to present a proposal on this agenda point. Mr. Šiljegović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4371	Okay, thank you, Chairman. The Serbian delegates' club proposes under 1. In the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Mr. Đok Pajić, graduate lawyer, 2. Commission for Financial and Administrative Affairs Mrs. Ruža Stojanović, degree in construction, 66 3. The Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, also Mrs. Ruža Stojanović, a degree in construction. This fills the number of members of the commission from the Serb people, and you know that we have had problems that we have always been on the edge of the quorum, etc. I hope that the commissions will now be in full capacity and even better working with, especially new members of these committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4372	I thank Mr. Šiljegović. We heard the suggestion. There's no argument. I suggest we make a point on this proposal. You can vote. Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted a decision on the schedule of delegates from the Serb people in committees as read. Now we're going back to the 7th point of the agenda. Do we have a representative of the Council? We do. Therefore, the Home of the People on the request of the Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina under a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure. Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Excuse me. That's settled. I'm sorry, I went to another point. The 7th point is - an indication of the Home of the People on the request of the Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection under the hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on the requirement for the law to be considered in accordance with this article after the debate. At the 55th session, the House of Representatives passed the law by a hasty procedure. Amendments shall not be submitted, Article 100(3). I'm opening a debate and immediately calling on the Council of Ministers to explain.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4373	This is about only one short change, meaning the deadline for the selection of the Director of the Agency for Investigation and Protection from 6 months is extended to 8 months. The election has not been completed, meaning within a planned 6-month period and the deadline has been extended for another 2 months. 67 It's just one short change. Please. Well, I wouldn't go into the reasons why he didn't. The High Representative has made his decision to amend and supplement this law. We are obliged to adopt such a law in the same text. I wouldn't go for reasons. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4374	This is Dom, it's not a charter, you have to state the reason.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4375	Look, we are obliged to make a decision by the High Representative in the same text. It's put into account by this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4376	You have to explain why it's like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4377	I really wouldn't do it now, I wouldn't say it. That deadline has been extended to the law from 6 to 8 months, but I really wouldn't get into it, nor do I have the authority to talk about it, the minister and the deputy are absent. It's me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4378	Okay. Here's the explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4379	I'm sorry, I think everyone here is well-known for which reasons and I think you all already know the reasons, but I really wouldn't be getting into it today.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4380	Okay. Thank you. Mr. Čengić answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4381	Well, here you are all witnesses to
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4382	The Council of Ministers don't know what they're doing.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4383	So, you're all witnesses that today I've tried all my strengths, so to speak, almost incorrectly towards you to try to separate the story of the law from the story of why it is not or is not appointed the first man of this institution. 68 However, I must admit now very clearly, I am sorry that the gentleman has not introduced himself, by name, by last name, or function, etc., but here I am now telling him that he is on the House of Nations. This is a very serious institution envisioned by the Constitution of BiH and my dear, if you have no intention of saying here what we ask you, then you cannot sit where you sit. If you don't understand that this is where the questions are answered and if you don't know that this home won't read the newspaper to find out what you're doing at the Council of Ministers, then there's time, you're young, you'll learn. So if you don't have an answer to that question and you're still saying that you don't want to get into it, and we think that it's our job to get into it and to understand that question and to hear the explanation why it is, why 6 months didn't do one job, and then we're looking for another 2 months later, the least that the Council of Ministers should have done is that in a certain way it's attractive, understandably, if you would even agree to explain it acceptablely and to convince us that there were reasons why it wasn't done in 6 months and that there are additional reasons that we agree to extend the deadline for another two months. In such a way that you wouldn't get into it, so the Council of Ministers wouldn't go into it to explain it to us, and you'd probably explain it to the press, and I don't think it would occur to you to tell the press that, one reporter, you wouldn't get into it. I don't think you'd think of that at all. That way we can't work. I'm afraid we are now in a situation of what Mr. Mustafa was saying today, that simply until we get an adequate explanation we cannot give consent to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4384	I thank Mr. Čengić. Mr. Šiljegović wants to speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4385	Here I'm going to try to, we know, we see today that there is no Council of Ministers chairman, there is no Secretary-in-Office, there is no Deputy, and I will, as a matter of fact, be on this guy's side in terms of protecting him, although he is young and stronger than I am, and I don't need him to protect me. But he came into a very awkward situation to shake me out now, and I agree with my colleague, Čengić, but don't. He was only sent here to be figuratively there. If it's in our best interest to make this change, we know this is a matter of political agreement. We know there's a move that will belong to the SIP, to which the Border Service, etc. And then we do it now. You should've asked Mr. Čengić when he was here, Adnan Terzić. So, good. So I say. I'm not sure we'd be doing this if Bariša Čolak and Adnan Terzić and Dragan Mektić were here. So if it is in our interest to end this, we have come to the situation that our services have brought in a representative, here we have accepted that, perhaps I also point out that I should have said that I am Marković Marko, etc., but if we are willing to extend those two months, do not make it difficult. I'm in favour of, here's a representative he can't answer, which is why there's been an extension, but there's 69 extensions. A two-month extension is required. Here I'd like to ask my colleagues if there's a wish and a will to not fix one situation again that we have something of this. What, we're gonna get in a situation where we're gonna ourselves, we're gonna do this again.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4386	Okay. We've heard thoughts. Is there anyone else who wants to talk? Mr. Genjac wants to.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4387	I'd ask this guy's capacity to really introduce himself, because I think we just know what it's really about, so I would after that.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4388	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4389	I'm sorry, I really forgot to introduce myself. Nermin Pešto, head of the Department of Laws and Planning at the Department of Security.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4390	Thank you. Mr. Genjac wants to continue.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4391	So it's about the head of the department. We really, I have to get along with Boška here, all of what's said, absolutely stands, absolutely stands. It's just that the culprits of the state and the addresses to which all this is to be delivered have done what they normally do to this home, so instead of being sent by the head of the department, who is absolutely not guilty, who just explained the content of the law. And we know, so completely colleague Čengić is right. It's my chance to read from the press what's going on and who's to blame. And today we don't have to find out again what it is, what it is, that as delegates here we hear full information and that's why we're considering what it is. No longer, the situation is definitely such that it needs to be sanctioned by amending the law. The situation is that it needs to be sanctioned by amending the law. Whatever we do, whatever we do when, then this delay with deadlines will have to be sanctioned by amending the law. That's right. We can postpone it, we can give up today, we can say more at the next session, but when that situation that's already started, we're going to have to sanction it by amending the law. The most beautiful would feel that, on this example, we warn the Council of Ministers over and over again that they cannot treat the House of Nations that way, indeed. Really. I don't think so. And this is another example. However, if we postpone this today at the next 70 sessions, we will have to wait and we will have to adopt. And nothing important changes except that a few days of some vacuum, perhaps illegal, could be bridged in internal decisions within service, ministry, etc. So I'm in favour of, for practical reasons, solving this today and, within these two months, of course, the debate that's going to be on the subject again, we point out that it can't be done like this, hoping that in those two months and this issue will be resolved.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4392	Mustafa, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4393	First, at one of the previous meetings, I spoke about the need to inform the House in quality and time, the Assembly of Laws on Legal Projects and MPs did not have to be professional enough to know everything fully. I believe the Genjac that you followed. I'm not, I'm not reading that. And I don't know why that is. And in the end, the newspaper is a newspaper, the living word of the people of the ministry is something else. I'm holding on to the heights of this house and giving him one importance that he and de facto and de jure deserve, I won't vote for this and if we're going to be principled and if we're going to stick to what we say, if we're going to keep our word, if we're going to keep this home, then most likely and now this vote knows. But just so you know, I'm still going to be principled and I'm not going to vote for any legal project that's unclear to me. The fact that someone ordered someone to be something doesn't oblige me as an MP to accept it. I want to accept what my conscience and my views and my political conviction and my human conviction can accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4394	Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4395	So we have another one here, I think one of the most popular soap operas, and that's the question of how to bring the Council of Ministers into this home. That's what I think longer than any series that's being broadcast say about 40 different hours of different shows are broadcast on BH TVs. But this is longer than all of it. So we now have a situation here that we have formally received information that the deadline has been broken. We need to buy some more time to shut it down legally, and on the other hand, we have the fact that we have no means and mechanisms at all to bring in the responsible representatives of the ministry, or the Council of Ministers, to talk to them. I completely agree with that, and I'll refuse as long as I'm alive to get official information from the papers. If that's really how we're going to work, we don't have to work. On the other hand, this 71 despair of our own destiny, which we here do very often make no sense to ourselves. In this regard, I propose, regardless of what this has to do with this agenda point, that the College put on the next item, the next session of our home debate on a new one, on the proposal of a new Rules of Procedure of the House which is precise in relation to these issues and obligations and the behaviour of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4396	And the present is precise.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4397	If it's accurate, it's another thing now. So I think it's finally time to find the mechanism, finally it's time to find the mechanism for the competent and representatives of the competent authorities to be present for the sessions. Especially since these sessions are once a month, very often, very rarely twice a month and are always announced for at least 15 days or more. I therefore think that it is possible for the competent representatives to be present with good planning. I, regardless of what we think this is enough, I think we should put on the agenda and the Rules of Procedure, the new Rules of Procedure and finally get to that new Rules of Procedure and we have a situation that we know very clearly who did what and who didn't do what and how we're going to treat it. And at the same time, I find that this situation is not good and we shouldn't have a situation where someone manages such an institution without having a legal solution or if I said legal cover for it. I assume this is the main motive that no one from the Council of Ministers has come. They just think that's enough reason for us, that we'll be responsible enough to do their job, so since they didn't do the job, then we need to do the job. I see that's the logic that's here. I mean, I may be a little personal, but I read it like that, that's the fact that every time we have a problem with the proposing representatives, and most often with the proposing representatives, if that's the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4398	Thank you. Mr Pamuk wants to.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4399	I don't need to. I'm just warning you of a member of our 140th Rules of Procedure. The BiH Council of Ministers in the House can represent his president, yes. If he's not here, the ministers can, and if they have to explain things. Hasane, that's a good deal, and I think about it, I'm not ready to talk like that. I can listen to it nicely, politely, but it's an explanation and it's a thing I wouldn't accept 72. I just think that this home should, normally, try a little bit to say that it is seen as far as the Council of Ministers is going to do so and clearly that a much more serious request is made to the Council of Ministers. Work or not work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4400	Mr. Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4401	Well, good, since I am, I am in the best of intentions, and it seems to me that Mr. Genjac wanted us to once again show the good will of this house in the direction Mr. Čengić was talking about. But either way, I'm not in favor of destroying this home's authority. I see that there is no desire and will to resolve this today without a representative who can answer many questions and in this direction, here I had the will and will, and here my fellow delegates believe that a proposal of one of the chairman's homes can be supported, so let's go to the protection of authority and home and people eat.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4402	Thank you. Any counter-proposals? If he doesn't, can we accept this? If anyone insists, we can vote on another proposal. No, we won't. So we don't think we have a competent representative of the Council of Ministers because the present Mr. Pešo, I think I remembered correctly, is not a person who is competent and said by means of a device that he doesn't want to, or that he can't speak to questions asked. Obviously he can't. He did the right thing. I think he did the right thing. And since the conditions for us to consider this law have failed, I suggest we postpone this law and consider it at some next session even though I do, and you know that the minister and his deputy and prime minister are at Vlašić right now. This morning. That's true. Yes, it is. Okay. Then can we, in accordance with our general conclusion, and otherwise, it was a good will to put it on the back end. There's no condition, and we're taking this point off the agenda. So we haven't considered it. And it's our session today, Mr. Spajić. Here you go, Mr. Spajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4403	Dear ladies and gentlemen, for the coming holidays, which means Orthodox Easter, the most significant holiday in the Orthodox church, as far as I know in front of the Croatian Club and in 73 of my personal name I wish and congratulate you on this most honest holiday to spend it in health and joy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4404	Here these days is Pesah, and behold, I wish to congratulate all the Jevrej in the name of the house the feast of Pesaha. Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4405	And we're joining, but we wouldn't be more specific about the reception Mr. Šiljegović is having.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-25-0.u4406	Great. Gentlemen, once again, the session is over. Thank you, everyone. Here we are at exactly 5:30.
