ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4516	Dear envoys, honored guests, representatives of public information funds, I welcome and load the 43rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. All 15 envoys are present at the session, so 5 each from the ranks of each constituent people, from the Bosniak people, from the order of the Croatian people, from the order of the Serb people, are all present. For the 43rd session, I suggest the next agenda; 1. Answers to envoy questions and envoy questions, 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 42nd session of the House of Peoples, 3. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the Competition Act, 4. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, and now a small one in the order of trade. Points 11 and 12 are proposed under regular number 5 and 6. So 5. Proposal for a law on BiH railways, first reading, 6. Proposal for a law on Foreign Affairs, first reading, 7. An indication of the House of People's request by the Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure in BiH, following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 An indication of the House of People's request of the House of Representatives for consideration of the Law amending the BiH Customs Tariff Act by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 100 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 9. An indication of the House of the People on the request of the envoy Boško Šiljegović, to discuss the Framework Law on Higher Education, about the hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 10. An indication of the House of People's request of the House of Representatives to discuss the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Rights of Members of National Minorities in BiH, following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 11. Proposal for a Law on Debt and Debt and Guarantees of BiH, Second Reading, 12. Proposal for a Law on the Public TV System of BiH, first reading, 2 13. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act in BiH Institutions, first reading, Proposer Zastpnik dom, 14. Proposal for a resolution against the amnesty of the Chetnic Movement of Draže Mihajlović on the crimes committed during World War II, Proposer Halid Genjac, 15. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the High Representative for BiH on the establishment of the Office of the Registers of War Crimes and the II Department for Organized Crime, Economic Crime and Corruption of the Criminal and Appealal Department of the Court of Justice of BiH as well as the Special Department for War Crimes and the Special Department for Organized Crime, Economic Crime and Corruption of the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, 16. Giving consent to ratifying the Treaty on the loan of a regional road development programme between BiH and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 17. Giving consent to ratify the note of the Agreement between the Governor of the Central Bank of Libya and the Minister for International Co-operation of BiH SFRY, 18. Giving consent to ratifying the Protocol between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the mutual exchange of real estate, land for the construction of diplomatic representations in Sarajevo and Ankara, 19. Giving consent to ratifying the Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on common locations at border crossings, 20. Giving consent to ratifying Annex II of the Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on common locations at border crossing points in the area of common location at the border crossing, Doljani-Metkovic, 21. Giving consent to the ratification of Annex III of the Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on common locations at border crossing points in the area of common location at the border crossing, Neum I - Klek, 22. Giving consent to the ratification of Annex IV of the Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on common locations at border crossing points in the area of common location at the border crossing, Neum II – Zaton – Doli, 23. Giving consent to the ratification of Annex V of the Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on common locations at border crossing points in the area of common location at the border crossing, Veliki Kladuma - Maljevac, 24. Giving consent to the ratification of Annex VI of the Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on common locations at border crossing points in the area of common location at the border crossing, Izačić – Ličko Petrovo selo. This is the agenda. I am, of course, opening a debate on the agenda. Who's calling? Mr. Milojević. Mr. Milojević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4517	I propose to the distinguished colleagues, dear guests, representatives of public information, to complement the agenda with a point, to give consent to the ratification of the Annex, so I don't know which number, the Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on common locations at the border crossing area of the common locations at the Kostanica border crossing, because this agreement is given in both the House of Representatives and I don't see why they would single out the Kostajnica, so I suggest that during today's meeting, the committee in charge and so that our home today could adopt or ratify this consensuality. Thank you. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4518	I thank Mr. Milojević. Mr. Čengić, an innocent committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4519	I am taking the opportunity to welcome all fellow members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community, representatives of the media and all others, and to say, as far as I am concerned, I think that this idea is very good, given that we already have several of these agreements with the Republic of Croatia and that this agreement regarding the transition to Costa Rica is actually complementing and completing this set of agreements with Croatia and I think it is realistic, given that all the members of the Commission are present at the House today, that in one of the breaks that we are taking today, that the Commission is considering this proposal for an agreement and to propose it to the House. And if the Commission makes such a proposal, then the House will have a chance to make a statement about it. I think it's a good idea to put this agenda in today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4520	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Mr. Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4521	The presidency, the honorary delegates, media representatives, I have a proposal to supplement the agenda for today's session. I, in accordance with Article 45(1). Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, I propose that the agenda be complemented by a point called the adoption of an initiative to declare July 11th on the day of mourning in BiH. Reason, very short, very brief explanation. During the past war, numerous crimes have been committed throughout BiH's territory. By the brutality and number of victims, the most serious crime committed in Srebrenica. The data, footage and other documents on this most serious crime committed in Europe after World War II that has been collected all these 10 years have made facing the truth of Srebrenica impossible to escape. That is why public reactions in our country and in neighbouring countries, including the whole world, are understandable. These are primarily reactions that express sympathy for the victims and the desire to do whatever it takes to never repeat a silver crime again. The least we can do towards the victims of all crimes is declare that just the day the genocide was committed in Srebrenica on the day of mourning in BiH, that that day, on July 11th, is the day of remembrance and warning. I therefore propose that this issue be considered, in order for the BiH presidency's initiative to be addressed on 11 July, the day.... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4522	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Who else wants to talk about the agenda, and then we'll make a statement about the proposals? All right, no more interested. 4 Now we shall declare the proposals. So, Mr Goran Milojević's proposal, if the 25th item of the agenda were to be classified Annex VII, meant to give consent to ratify Annex VII of the Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on common locations at border crossing points in the common location area at the Kostanica border crossing, and I think it's called Bosnia-Bosanska-Hratska. That's a suggestion. Who is to include this item in the agenda, we said in what way, so the competent commission is required in one of the breaks that we will organise during the session. Who's in? Thank you. And I realize that we unanimously adopted the proposed agenda point and put it on the 25th place. We have a proposal from Mr. Halid Genjac to put another point in the agenda. He read, explained therefore, an initiative to declare July 11th a day of mourning in BiH. Mr. Milojević wants to comment, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4523	With the deep respect of Mr. Genjac's proposal, the epithet of course to the victims, it seems to me that the determination would, does this apply to 11 July 2005 or in general? If it's general, is it, I don't know if the Presidency can make that decision or if that matter has to be regulated by law? I mean, there's just a little dilemma.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4524	Thank you. Does Mr. Genjac have an answer to the question or clarification?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4525	So, I suggested putting a point called, considering the initiative and adopting the initiative to, which would be addressed to the Presidency and to declare it a day of mourning. The Presidency has, yes, 11 July, the Presidency in its jurisdiction has the capacity to declare the day of mourning and we would, during the review of this initiative at today's session, determine what we want, as we wish, and the Presidency would be based on our initiative, which would be a recommendation and initiative, and yet only the Presidency would make a final decision, based on its capacities and powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4526	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. So, we got an explanation. The only thing that needs to be put here with this request is the year 2005 because it says only July 11th, it doesn't say which year or permanent. Now we understand everything. Okay. Mr. Šiljegović wants to. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4527	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable College, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian delegates' club, will accept that the initiative is on the agenda. It's a business right for a colleague, to put himself on the agenda and see in the course of the debate, because we already have a disagreement now, whether it's the 11th, but in the course of the debate we'll see. I wouldn't prejudge the fate of the initiative, but we accept that it's on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4528	Mr. Pajić Đoko. Dickie, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4529	Gentlemen of the chairman, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, here's counterpart Šilegović said the Serbian delegates' club will give consent to put this item on the agenda. But I have to say, I can't give consent to the inclusion. Let me explain why I'll be against it. It is clear that on July 11th of '95, a terrible crime was committed in Srebrenica, and nobody slows it down and neither do I. However, it is also clear that throughout that period of '92-95, many crimes have been committed. If I were to speak for myself, give consent to declare the day of July 11th on the day of mourning, I would insult myself and offend all other families whose loved ones died throughout the period of '92-95. For me, it's a day of mourning on March 20, '95. For some it was May 15, '92, for those families whose over 250 people died in the Tuzlan column. For some, January 7, '93, the biggest Serbian holiday, the Orthodox holiday of Christmas, when their loved ones were killed and killed on that day. For many others from the Croatian and Bosniak or Muslim nations, some other dates, when their loved ones died, are their day of mourning. Therefore, he would not be correct to himself, nor to everyone else, because I believe that this would be discrimination against one family, one victim of one another in relation to the family and the victims of the other. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4530	I thank Mr. Pajić. I don't see any more reports. I call on us to make a statement about Mr. Genjac's proposal to put this item on the agenda. So I will repeat it, an initiative to declare July 11th on the day of mourning in BiH. Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? Thank you. I agree that with 14 votes for, 1 vote against, without the abstentions, we have adopted the addition of the agenda, with the said point, so an initiative to declare July 11th on the day of mourning in BiH, which will be addressed to the Presidency, that is to say, in the harvest. 6 Moving to the first item of the agenda, Ad.1. Answering the envoy's questions and the envoy's questions is there, Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4531	Dear Mr. President and gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents, respected colleagues and colleagues, esteemed representatives of the Council of Ministers and other institutions of BiH, ladies and gentlemen representatives of the international community, the NGO sector and representatives of the public information funds, welcoming you all together, I would like to take advantage of this opportunity and comment on the answers to my envoys' questions, and all of which I have received four answers to my questions, which I have asked, of course, during the earlier period. And, as usual, the Council of Ministers does not agree with our Rules of Procedure, and this time took from 6 to 12 times more time than our rules of procedure. But what's here is. Having in mind the atmosphere and way of working of the Council of Minors, I personally estimate that it is both good and good and this much. However, given the fact that these answers are very indicative, and of course when I asked questions, I assumed that there would be interesting data and material in the answers. The first question was the response prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. And, you're distinguished colleagues, you get all these answers, so I don't need to talk more widely about it, but I would still draw attention to a few things. In fact, the overall value for 9 basically agricultural-food products imported into BiH in the past 2004 is 563, i.e. 564 million KM and for the same products our exports amounted to around 60 million KM, which means our deficit was just over 500 million or slightly less than the annual budget of all BiH institutions. So these data are certainly very alarming and they're actually saying that this is the right formula for our collapse, or economic downturn, if something more significant on this plan is not done as soon as possible and as efficiently as possible. On the other hand, the fact that I don't think that this is all the way to reliable data and I'm convinced that, compared to some items at least 5-6 times, the more difficult facts are that the example is working, over 17 million paid for the import of seeds and fruit material, then that the 50 million deficit for milk and dairy products, fresh vegetables 38, for fruit 90 million, and imagine, on natural mineral water, our deficit is over 75 million in the last year, on beer 97 million, etc. And, of course, every time there's an initiative to form, for example, the Ministry of Agriculture at the state level, we're going to have very dissonant tones and of course, the initiative is going to be very difficult, although I think these data are enough to think very seriously and do something about it. 7 The response I received from the Ministry of Security referred to the conclusion of the 12th session of the House of Peoples held on 30 September 2003, and we thus obliged the Council of Ministers and the Presidency to update the document Security Policy of BiH, gave them a deadline by the end of the first quarter of the following year, so in 2004. However, the response shows that the Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency did not take our conclusion very seriously. So, the document for more than 2.5 years, since its origin or full 15 months, longer than the deadline we have given, has not been updated, and in answer to my question, it is quite clear that it has been embellished by the Council of Ministers at the 83rd session, held on 17 May and last sentence in that reply, I quote "the proposal for a decision to set up an inter-resor working group for the drafting of the proposal for the BiH Security Policy was included on the agenda of the 82nd meeting of the Council of Ministers to be held on 19 April 2005, the quote was completed. So, from the 83rd session, I am informed that a session will be held on April 19th, almost a month after that. So it's obviously a date error, but as far as I know, the document hasn't been updated yet. I wish it was, and I wish it was written here. As for the answer that concerns my question about late appointments at the BiH Ministry of Defence, what is one of the conditions if we remember, last year somewhere in this time or ten days behind, we made moves and hoped to enter the Partnership for Peace at the Istanbul summit, one of the elements was the appointment of a number of persons of the general act at that time. He remembered that we broke the deadline, but of course for other reasons we weren't admitted to the Partnership for Peace and Truth for Will, it wasn't 85% spoken, but I personally think there's no reason why they would leave me 15%. These percentages haven't been reached to me today and there's no reason, so we're not going to wait for someone like this to draw attention to us or other words to turn their attention to us, so let's do it. It's our need, it's our interest, and in the end it's an obligation. It is clear from the answer that there were no obstructions, that no one was to blame, although it is claimed that the delay in the appointments, i.e. in establishing the appropriate structure, was in accordance with the Internal Design Regulation of this ministry, that the deadlines were not respected. I mean it myself, and I'm going to take this opportunity and say that this is how it's going to be until as long as these three ministers act in a way that I don't know or better say it, she knows whose last one is. It is a good example and very fresh, this example with the BiH Minister of Justice and the Federation Minister, you can practically see this, what the ratio of strength is and what our reforms are like and how we strengthen the role of state institutions in this case and in relation to the answer, to my question, the role of Minister Radovanović. I am sure, sure, almost certain that Minister Radovanović is responsible and is in his power that these delays would not be and that our reform would go at a completely different pace, and we would not be afraid for a September month, because, as you know, NATO has assigned very, very precise tasks and ultimately, we must reject the illusion that NATO will change and align with our needs. We'll have to do it clearly, better do it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4532	Mr. Limov, you just haven't come forward, are you satisfied with your answers for the record or aren't you? Answering your questions, actually. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4533	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You've really helped me, and thank you for giving me the opportunity, and I can see that the representatives of the Council of Ministers were dissatisfied with the fact that I didn't say so, so I'm unhappy with the situation in relation to the answer to the first question. As I believe, dear colleagues, that you with 500 million deficits on those 9 agriculturals, so I'm totally dissatisfied with the situation. The technical response is correct. As for answering questions related to security policy and obstructions in the defence ministry's appointments, I'm unhappy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4534	Thank you. Next, Mrs. Stojanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4535	Madam Chairman, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask a question. Why is the BiH Federation Department of Justice refusing to implement the BiH Justice Ministry's decision to move prisoners from the KP Zenica, and is this the case of non-compliance with BiH law and what is the BiH Council of Ministers intending to take on the matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4536	Thank you. Mr. Šiljegović,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4537	Hello, Mr. Chairman. Unlike my colleagues, Lim, I cannot comment because I have not received answers to many delegate questions. It's a disease we've had a long time ago, but here, I'm going to be persistent again, so I'm going to ask a delegation question to the BiH Council of Ministers again. Who uses a business card in BiH institutions? Who makes the decision, under what conditions and for what purposes can the state money be used, by paying the card? A list of business card users and the amount of state money spent so far on issued cards individually and for what purposes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4538	I thank Mr. Šiljegović. Mr Tomislav Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4539	Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues, I will, of course, ask a few questions this time, they will not be here, they will not refer to the face to which the previously commented answers were concerned. I ask the Council of Ministers or the Minister of Justice of BiH, first of all, 9-1. Are there judges and prosecutors in the BiH Court of Justice who have not made a solemn oath? If so, indicate their names and reasons why they did not do so, which is prescribed by the provision of Article 47. Law on the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH? 2. How much is the monthly salary of judges and prosecutors of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, especially domestic and especially foreign, and who pays them? 3. Is it in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act that the judge for a preliminary hearing confirming the indictment may take part in a council which decides to object to the same indictment and whether there have been such cases and who in the Court of Justice of BiH, otherwise, is the foothold for this in Articles 228, 233. Law on criminal proceedings of BiH? 4. And, fourthly, it concerns the establishment and operation of the Secretariat of the High Court and Prosecutors' Boards in accordance with Articles 15 and 91. The law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH. Does the Secretariat, therefore, have a regulation on the internal organisation, which is the obligation in accordance with Article 16, how many secretariats have permanent staff, in which way they are appointed, what is their monthly earnings, and whether directors, state officials in the Secretariat, are appointed under the provisions of the Law on State Service in the institutions of BiH and under the provisions of the Internal Organisation Regulation, which is otherwise specified in Article 15(3) and Article 91(4) of the Law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4540	I thank Mr. Limov. Are there any more interested in parliamentary matters? Mr. Đoko Pajić,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4541	Well, I would only have heard from my colleague Šiljegović now, if he had asked a lot of delegate questions before and had not received answers to this day. Well, I don't have a delegate question right now, but I have comments, I want to, I want to make that kind of public dissatisfaction, I'm in the 40th session of this house, I've asked one delegate question for the first time, and I haven't got an answer until today. It's been a significant period of time, about two months since then, and there's no answer. And I think that answer could have come to today. And, come on, at the last session I asked two questions, I didn't get an answer to one, but that period may be from spring to this session, I can understand, but I can't understand why I didn't get that answer that I, the delegate question that I asked at the 40th session, so there are records, I want to once again to initiate those same questions that were addressed to the Council of Ministers and two to the BiH Presidency, to try to coercise to get that answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4542	I thank Mr. Pajić. I don't see any more reports, and that's what we'd end up with with this agenda point. 10 We move to another point, Ad2. The adoption of the 42nd session of the Smoke People Is anyone answering for a word? There's no interest. I invite you to come forward with the minutes of the 42nd session. Who's in? Thank you. And I agree that we unanimously adopted the book of the 42nd session of the House of Peoples. Moving to the next item of the agenda, number 3, Add.3. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the Competition Act I call on the rapporteur, President of the Commission to report on the results of their work. Mr Pamuk, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4543	I welcome you and here I present to the House of People a report on the alignment of the text of the Competition Act. As you know, the text of the Competition Act was adopted in various texts in the House of Peoples and in the House of Representatives, and the House of Peoples at the 42nd session selected a commission composed of Pmuk Mustafa, Ruža Stojanović and Branko Zrno and the House of Representatives at the 58th session also to the Commission, composed of Filip Andrić, Hazim Felić and Tihomir Gligorić, who should agree on the text of this law. I hereby report to you that the Joint Commission agreed at its session the text of the Law and this Law can be declared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4544	I thank Mr. Pamuk. You have received a report from the Commission, the House of Representatives adopted this report. I'm opening a debate on the report. There's no argument. I'm closing the debate. I call on us to accept the Commission's report. Who's in? Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted the Commission's report on the alignment of the texts of the laws, and therefore this law is therefore, the Competition Act and formally adopted and effective. The fourth item of the agenda, Add.4. A report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in BiH institutions I call on the rapporteur to report on the results of the Commission's work. Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4545	Dear colleagues, we have an intervention here. I have just received information at the House of Representatives, one of the members of this commission, has lodged a kind of formal objection, because a consultation was carried out by telephone during the Commission's meeting. For these reasons, this member of the commission is ready to meet this, legally formally, and to finish this commission in the course of the day, to get rid of it. I don't think it's any issue except these formal questions. For that reason, I suggest that this point and the final point of this supplement that we adopted today be replaced. I would ask you, so for this reason and for another reason, I think this initiative that we adopted as an addition to the agenda, we can quickly finish, we have this compromise, I think. If it's possible we could just make a switch, and I mean these suggestions that were about to be '95. For years, I think we can work this out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4546	I thank Mr. Genjac. This first part is quite understandable and reasonable, so we're going to postpone this point for the end, and this second part of the proposal, I don't think we could appreciate it, because the agenda was established, there was no requirement to put it in any place, and that means the last part, so I think we solved it this way. If you think this is a correct interpretation, if not, then we can make a statement about it. All right. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, Ad.5. Proposal for a law on BiH railways, first reading by Mr Hasan Čengić, an innocent commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4547	Dear colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, I would like to inform you that the Commission for Foreign Trade Policy at its 35th session, held yesterday, was considering this law. During the examination, all the present members of the Commission agreed on the principles and principles of this law and in the second part of the examination, amendments were also discussed. The Law on Railways is extremely important and represents a major newspaper for BiH. This law will put BiH in line for those countries in Europe who have been mocked, or rather a more bolder way of organising railway transport. 12 The most important thing is that the BiH Railways Act foresees that BiH's infrastructure is seen as a single system that will be cared for by two companies, the Public Undertaking of the Federation of BiH and the Railway Company of the Republic of Slovenia. The basic idea is that the infrastructure remains owned by these two institutions but that there is a possibility that more operators might appear using the same infrastructure. This law right now regulates the position and obligations of those who care for the infrastructure and positions and obligations of the operator and the way and the way in which someone can become an operator. We believe that this law can significantly contribute to the acceleration of the development of rail traffic in BiH, the return of rail traffic to BiH in a position he had before the war or better said preparation for modernisation and finally, this law is very important, a prerequisite for an agreement with the European Bank for Development to provide funds for the modernisation of infrastructure, railway infrastructure in BiH. A total of 10 amendments to two proposals were made to the law itself. All amendments of both proposals were unanimously adopted by the Commission and we propose to the House to adopt this law as adopted by the Commission with amendments which have received the necessary majority there and I must say that, at the same time, the Council of Ministers has been involved in consultations on amendments and also representatives of the Council of Ministers have given their support to these amendments, which essentially correct the solutions given or clarified the solutions given in the law, i.e. in a certain way regulate the issue of the seat of the Regulatory Committee established by this law. To conclude, I call on my colleagues to support this law and since the law, if we accept it in this text, will have different texts, in this home and in the House of Representatives, and the House of Representatives has already passed this law, I suggest that as soon as we give consent to the law, we also agree on a committee to agree on texts that may even end that part of the work by tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4548	I would like to thank Mr Čengić, who, on behalf of the committee in question, explained the work and talked a little bit about amendments, which are an integral part of the law. The House of Representatives passed this law in both readings with one amendment, at its 58th session, held on 8 June 2005. I call on the proposing representatives, if there is a need to explain and say something about the text of the law. Mr. Bašić, if you consider it necessary, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4549	I have to get out for one very important reason. First of all, let me thank you as a College for respecting our request to move this point of the agenda to place number 5 because we wanted to, if possible today and complete the procedure of forming a joint committee to bring the same text into line. 13 It is very difficult to say something new after the presentation of the President of the Commission to the People's House, but the essential thing to say here is that by adopting the Law on Railways, in line with European principles and international standards, BiH finally separates three rounds, key functions in the area of rail transport. These are the regulatory function, the function of the operational function, means the transport and function of the infrastructure manager. I think these are very important things and that this is one of the laws that will contribute to the establishment of a system in which many operators from abroad will move through a single rail infrastructure according to established principles by the Railway Regulatory Committee, the Prices, tariffs and methods of use, and that after the adoption of this law, we will be able to access the signing of a loan agreement with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, amounting to 180m euros. So, I remind you that this is a very important condition and that after that, the railway infrastructure in BiH will reach and reach the level needed for the rapid and efficient movement of rail transport, especially in relation to the recent contract, i.e. the contract signed by the two entities on the purchase of so-called. joint wagons. I thank you and here is the call and I ask for the adoption of the Law on Railways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4550	Thank you, Mr. Bašić. Who wants to take part in the debate? I'm opening a debate. Niko one's answering for a word. So, I'm closing the debate and I'm calling for us to make a statement about the law in real reading. Who's in? I suggest that we discuss the law at today's session in a second reading. Who's up for this proposal? Who's in? Thank you. Against? Abstained? I agree that we have unanimously decided that today we will go and consider the law in the second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. There were no new amendments other than those adopted, therefore, on the relevant committee. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. And I urge you to make a statement about the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? I agree that we unanimously passed the Law on the BiH Railways. Since the law has been adopted in a different text than the one adopted at the Zastepnik House, I call on club presidents to propose members of the text alignment committee. Mr. Šiljegović, please. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4551	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4552	Thank you, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4553	/No Peacephone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4554	Thank you, Mr. Spajić, thank you. I agree that we have proposed Mr. Vinko Radovanović, Mr. Hasan Čengić, Mr. Ante Spajić for members of the Commission to bring together the texts of the BiH Law on Railways. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. I agree that we have unanimously chosen the Commission in the composition that has already been said. Moving to the next item of the agenda, Add.6. Proposal for a Law on Foreign Affairs, the first reading The House of Representatives passed this law in both readings with eight amendments at its 57th session held on 17 May 2005. You've received a report from the relevant commission. The Commission has adopted nine amendments that have become an integral part of the text of the law. I open the debate and immediately call on the representatives of the proposings and the relevant committees to turn around. Mr. Mektić, Deputy Minister of Security of BiH. Mr. Mekić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4555	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished delegates of the House of Peoples, ladies and gentlemen, namely, the Law on Foreign Affairs or the Law on Immigrants in BiH is a law in the area or matter of the 16 priorities that BiH was obliged to meet, related to the Immunity Study. Namely, the Law on the Movement and stay of Foreigners in BiH, which already came into force about two years ago, there is a obligation of this ministry to take over the complete Foreign Office from all to date competent agencies for the implementation of the laws in BiH and it was some time period of 6 months, which, of course, is going to go well until this time, and the proposal was to establish a special immigration service in BiH, i.e. for foreigners, by integrating all personnel and depending on the agreement of the material and technical means from all the law enforcement agencies in BiH as part of this ministry. In fact, it is an extremely important and important matter, because we have a problem with illegal immigrants now found and found in BiH, we have no 15 ways to get back outside of BiH, because we do not have these services in place, we have no immigration centres where we could put a stranger under the radar. Likewise, when banishing and deporting foreigners, while we conduct an administrative procedure to banish foreigners from BiH, he makes it immediately before the entry into force, rather than what the solution will become executive, change the address, and we simply have a huge number of foreigners now who are like illegal immigrants, or foreigners who have a solution to banishment and we are not able to do so. In this law, we establish this service for foreigners, by integrating all the services that are now in existence and working in other agencies and only being very important and important, since I see that in relation to the text of the law adopted in the House of Representatives, it will be adopted in a different text here now, but I think it is not about essential things, but purely about technical formulations. If it's possible to fix it here now, or if it isn't, if the alignment is going to drag it over the summer break now and we're going to ask, we have a huge job about the integration of these personnel, putting this service out, the question of how we're going to get into the budget for next year. I think that this will truly create problems that we will not be able to solve in the course of this year, related to the establishment of this service, or if it is possible to bring these two texts into line, to be achieved very quickly and then confirmed at the House, so that we can go with the Internal Organisation and Systematization Regulation in this service, to start with the completion of this service and most importantly, to start with the establishment of an immigration centre in BiH that is here to say, practically one of the most important activities related to meeting this condition around the Performance Study. So, this law, in this way, defined the establishment of this service for foreigners who will deal exclusively with the implementation and control of the implementation and implementation of the Law on the Movement and stay of Foreigners and Asylum in BiH and most of the European countries, not most of them but mainly all European countries have so-called. the immigration police or the police for foreigners, in a more or less similar way, as we tried to establish this law. Here I am, as soon as I can tell you, and another one I have a request, if it's possible to find agreement on the same text in some way because this law in the House of Representatives was passed with all and one vote for, there were some amendments that we agreed and agreed with the promoters, here again, there was and there was it on the commission, it's not really important and it's more important, more in one technical law-making but if it pulls time, it'll create problems for us, especially in the formation of this immigration center. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4556	I thank Mr. Deputy Minister Mr. Mektić. The committee responsible, Mr. Čengić,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4557	Therefore, the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy considered the proposal for this law at yesterday's 35th session and adopted principles and principles and then unanimously adopted amendments. The amendments on this committee were proposed by colleagues Boško 16 Šiljegović and Mr Osman Brka. We know that there were amendments that were accepted in the House of Representatives and no one suggested them on our committee. Since we have adopted some amendments that have not been proposed at the House of Representatives, it is true that we have come to the situation that we have the law in two texts. However, I would like to say, all the key issues that treat the amendments are, in fact, on the House's committee adopted unanimously, there was no difference. I'll be very clear, the technical improvements proposed by Mr. Osman Brk's amendment are necessary, given the fact that in some parts of the law, don't be angry with the expression, was unhumbled, and then the amendments actually, a little text was corrected. It couldn't have been turned into technical repairs. On the other hand, the important and essential repairs were proposed by Mr. Boško Šiljegović's amendment, and they concerned, in law, that the assistant director for control, etc. It is a slightly longer title of that function, in fact being third in that Bosnian trinity, the Bosnian Herzegovina trinity, about it, because it has a director, and only has one deputy director, and then it was clearly considered to be a good thing that there was one of the assistants who had the function of someone who would be on behalf of a third nation, so that in fact all three peoples have access to what they might call the leadership of this institution. It's accepted on the committee itself and I don't think that's any problem. Respecting what Mr. Mektić here said, and that's first, that this law is extremely important, and secondly, that the application of this law is not daily but every day. So this law is of such nature that it is literally 24 hours a day to take care of it, at the borders of BiH and within BiH territory. Therefore, there is no dilemma that he is truly important and urgent. As a commission, we have a proposal to immediately appoint our part of the Commission for text alignment, and I believe and use the opportunity here, following the basic thought of Mr. Mektić, who, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, insisted that as soon as possible, the law be applied, I would ask our colleague to try to contact the College of the House of Representatives, and ask them to work this afternoon or tomorrow morning to come into a position that we already have agreed text at the end of the session or formally to open up a new session of the House of Representatives, to determine the members of the Commission in front of the House, which today afternoon or tomorrow morning may be in a position that we already have the agreed text, because, by my understanding of the differences that remain, are not essential in nature, and I am quite certain if this House has accepted the idea that the law essentially changed with this third agency, that we can find a solution in the text in the text of the Commission, and that we can find the text in the text in the text in the text in the first place in the first place in the first place, and in the first place of the first place, first place, first place, that we can be in the first time in the first place, first place, first time in the text in the first place of the secondly, that we can be in the Commission, and then. I think it would be important, and I think this matter and this law deserve the extra effort of both our college and our home and all the colleagues who are in the text-enhancing committee, to make it final on tomorrow. Thank you. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4558	I thank Mr. Čengić. The debate is open. Does anyone have any interest in the debate? There isn't. Okay. I call on us to make a statement about the law in the first reading. Who's in? Thank you. And I agree that we unanimously passed the Foreign Affairs Act in the first reading. I suggest we discuss the Law at today's session in a second reading. Who's up for a proposal like this? Who's in? Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted the proposal to consider the law in the second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the Law. There were no new amendments. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. And I call on us to make a statement about the law. Who's in? I agree that we unanimously passed the Foreign Affairs and Second Reading Act. Since the law has been adopted in a different text, I would like to choose the Commission for text alignment immediately. Mr. Boško Šiljegović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4559	Thank you, President, the Club of Serbian Delegates proposes to the Commission for the text of the law, Mrs. Ruža Stojanović. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4560	Thank you, Mrs. Ruža Stojanović, Mr. Halid Genjac,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4561	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4562	Thank you, Mr. Spajić,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4563	18 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4564	Mr Tomislav Limov, thank you. I call for a statement on the Commission's proposal to bring the texts in line with Mrs Ruža Stojanović, Mr Hasan Čengić, Mr Tomislav Limov. Who's in? Against? Abstained? I thank you, I konstatirati that we unanimously adopted the Commission's proposal to bring the texts of the Foreign Office Act into line with the names we said. That's what we're done with the sixth item of the agenda. Moving to the 7th, Ad. 7. An indication of the House of People's request by the Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Criminal Procedure of BiH following a hasty procedure pursuant to Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the People's House in accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on a request for the examination of the law under this article after the debate. The House of Representatives adopted the Law as a matter of urgency, the amendments are not submitted in accordance with Article 100(3) of our Rules of Procedure. I'm opening the debate. Who's answering for a word? There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. We're pleading to the law. I'm calling you, about the procedure, I'm sorry. I urge you to state the procedure for considering the law under Article 100. Rules of Procedure. Who's in? Thank you. I agree that we have unanimously decided to consider the Law in accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I'm opening a debate on the law. Who's answering for a word? There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the law. Who is for the proposed text of the BiH Criminal Procedure Act? Who's in? Against? Abstained? I agree that we unanimously adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Curve Procedure of BiH in the same text as whether, this is understood as the House of Representatives. Moving to the eighth point of the agenda, 19. Ad.8. Observation of the House of People on the request of the House of Representatives to discuss the Law on Change and Complementary, the amendment of the Customs Tariff Act of BiH under the haste procedure in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the People's House in accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on a request for consideration of the Law, in accordance with this article after the debate. The House of Representatives adopted this law as a matter of urgency, amendments are not submitted. I am opening a debate on the request. There's no interest. I'm calling for a statement on the request. Who, then, is the Law under Article 100(2) of our Rules of Procedure? Who's in? I thank you, I konstatirati that we have unanimously decided that this law is being considered under Article 100(2) of our Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate on the text of the law. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I call for the adoption of the law. Who is for amendments to the BiH Customs Tariff Act? Who's in? Thank you. I agree that we unanimously passed a law amending the BiH Customs Tariff Act. This Law, of course, was adopted in the same text as in the House of Representatives and thus was formally adopted. Number nine, Ad.9. Apparition of the House of Nations on the request of the envoy Boško Šiljegović for consideration of the Framework Law on Higher Education under the hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the Home of the People gospodin Šiljegović, the Proposer, wishes to address. Here you go, Mr. Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4565	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since me and Mr. Momčilo Novaković were legislators of the law, the Framework Law on Higher Education, and that the House of Representatives adopted at its session that the Law goes in regular procedure, I suggest that we follow the same trail and that this law goes into regular procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4566	I thank Mr. Šiljegović. Is there any comment or need for someone to explain and ask? I have one question. Should we make a statement about this proposal, or is it automatically understood that it is going regularly? 20 Well, then we should have a negative definition, which would be positive in terms of this request. So, if we refuse, then it goes to regular. Who's for regular, for 99? But, look, the law is, no, no, we have to deal with this, the law is already on the agenda and we have to figure it out. So, we should, yes, by a negative determination we will respect Mr. Šiljegović's request. So who's in favour of the law going as it says here in the 99s proposal? If we say no, then we respect what Mr. Šiljegović is looking for, and that he is going into a regular procedure. So, who's in? No one, one pardon, against? Abstained? I find that with one vote for, most votes against and two abstentions, we have decided that this law is going into regular procedure. That's when we're done with 9. Let's go to the 10th item of the agenda, Add. 10. An indication of the House of People's request of the House of Representatives to discuss the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Members of National Minorities in BiH following a hasty procedure pursuant to Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples shall be discussed whether the Law will be considered in a brief manner. Are there any interested in this debate? There isn't. I'm calling for a plea. Who is in favour of considering the Law in accordance with Article 99 of the Law? The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Who's in? Thank you. I agree that we have unanimously decided that the law is being considered in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. We're going to the 10th item of the agenda, Add. 10. House of the People's Apparition, excuse me 11. Excuse me, Ad.11. The proposal for a law on borrowing, debt and guarantees from Bosnia and Herzegovina, a second reading by the People's House, passed the law in its 42nd session. The House of Representatives passed this law in both readings with two amendments at its 57th session on 17 May 2005. You have received a report from the Commission. The Commission accepted the text of the Proposal for a Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantee with two amendments adopted that are identical to those adopted in the House of Representatives and become an integral part of the text of the law. 21 The second reading discusses amendments, and votes on the law. The new amendments were submitted by the envoy, Mrs. Ruža Stojanović. Who's answering for a word? We welcome the arrival of the Minister of Finance, Mrs. Marić, welcome. There are no reports. Does Mrs Stojanović need to explain the amendments? There isn't. Then let's make a statement about the amendments. So we have two amendments, I'll read if you all have this in front of you. In Article 4, in paragraph 2, delete the word – creation. In Article 4, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4(2) delete the word – creation. We've adopted two amendments on the committee. These two aren't, these are restored. Okay, I'm calling, here's what we've heard even though it's binding on us to some extent, and it doesn't commit to whether, of course, we can vote in our own determination and will. So we hear the minister disagrees with these amendments, but it does not prevent us from thinking in our own way. I give the statement Amendment number I, so in Article 4(2), delete the word – creation. Who's in favor of this amendment? Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? 1 So we have 7 v, 8 for, and abstention, excuse me. I'm asking you to hold the vote, but let's help this time be precise. So, I call for a statement on Amendment I. Who's in favour? Eight for who's against it? Abstained? There's no, so the amendment has a majority. Does he have an entity majority? There is. Okay, let's go to the second round. Who's the Federation against? Is that 2/3 of 10? Okay. We find that the amendment has not passed. We're going to the second amendment. In Article 11(1), the words - depending on the provisions of this law and the provisions of the Council of Ministers' Decision - shall be replaced by the words - in accordance with the provisions of this law and the provisions of the Council of Ministers' Decision, with the prior consent of the entity government. Is there a need or is he going to comment, or is he going to answer the word? Madam Minister, please, Mrs. Marić. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4568	I welcome you and I really ask for your understanding. I really think here's the final stage of adopting this law you know how important it is, how important every word is. We really shouldn't insist on formal-legal provisions, which are now going to explain something and are actually going to change important things. As for this amendment here, which now replaces actually text, we think it's really a formal-legal remark, or that these used words here are formulated in the same sense. So he does exist and he really doesn't need to adopt a amendment like this. This previous entity consent is not necessary because these borrowing procedures are very clear. And we're absolutely saying it again, every time there's really nothing we can do because our decision in BiH is like that, that it comes every time to a plea by procedure as it is until now, and you know that entities will do their debt and borrowing laws. So, looking at all of this, this really isn't the kind of protection this law needs. So the law conceptually guarantees that in a procedure that is clearly written, very clearly written, it means that by stating one House, after those contracts that you have today as much as you love, on the agenda, it will come back to the vote, nothing can be done that would be contrary to anyone in the blame of the borrowing procedure. We don't think it would really be necessary to adopt this Amandam and I'd like to stay on the commission's report, it was according to us enough to adapt to the law and we think that this wouldn't, it really wouldn't be appropriate to adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4569	I thank Mrs. Marić. Are there any more reported? There isn't. We can conclude the debate and approach the plea. So we vote on Amendment II. Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? The amendment didn't go through. I can now, now I call upon you to plead with me on the law. We're voting on the law. Who's in? I thank you, vulnerabilities? Abstained? I agree that most of the votes, with 1 vote against, 1 abstention, have passed the Law on borrowing, debt and guarantees from BiH. I can now conclude... with the same text as in the House of Representatives and thus this law and formally, finally adopted. 23 I think we did this pretty fast, and I think we could take a break or a 60-minute break now, so we should leave at 2:00. The time we set for lunch is already up to half an hour. [[PAUZA]] I suggest we continue our work. We have a quorum. Mr. Šiljegović and Milojević are here somewhere, and they will join us here in the hall at any moment. We've reached the 12th agenda point, Ad.12. Proposal for a Law on the Public TV System of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading The House of Representatives passed this law in both readings, with 4 amendments at its 57th session, held on 17.7. 2005. You've received a report from the relevant commission. The Commission has adopted 4 amendments which have become an integral part of the text of the Law and which are identical to the amendments adopted at the House of Representatives. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Limov, or we'll be on the committee first, well, then here's my apologies, Mr. Limov, first the proposing representative, and then the relevant commission, and then Mr. Limov. Mr. Bašić, Deputy Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4570	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you again and thank you for giving me the opportunity to say something about this bill to the public broadcasting system that lies before you today. As you know, this is the second version of the Law on the Public TV System, which was done and proposed by the Council of Ministers after the refusal of the first version or, first version of the Law on the Public TV System which did not pass the procedure in the House of Representatives. After that, the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of Communications and Transport, having regard to all the comments taken and made in the debate on this first law, took note of these requests and amendments by the MPs in the House of Representatives and through a discussion with the members of the House of Representatives, prepared a new draft law, which is, in fact, the one that is in front of you today. The law is at the stage, the commission stage as you have seen has been adopted, i.e. four amendments that have now become an integral part of this legislative proposal. Otherwise, what is important at this time to say, when it comes to the public TV system is that this legislative proposal has been made in accordance with the requirements of the 16a and 16b feasibility study, where the Council of Ministers is obliged to do a modern, efficient and European standards organised a public broadcasting system in BiH. 24 In the procedure, in the preparation of this law, we used certain European recommendations and declarations in the field of audiovisual services, then the basic principles of the Three Permiers Agreement, then the European Convention on Cross-border Television, which was certified by BiH and the EU Directorate of Television without Borders, which determines the basic postulates of audiovisual services in the Member States. What is gained by this law, of course we do not all have the same view in certain parliamentary benches or by MPs who have expressed their opinion and through the media, I can say that this law, which is passed or designed by three legally separate services and a fourth entity called the Corporation, which forms these three services. We hereby define three individual permits for three services that make up a complementary system permit. The three supervisory committees which together form a system committee shall be Definiš. A joint legal entity, a corporation in charge of international representation, advertising, infrastructure management, purchase of programmes, etc. there's a monitoring committee that's actually a board of systems. So the system board made up of the board of directors of all three BiH broadcasters. We receive a uniformly harmonised system of state-level subscription, certain members of the protection of the rights of all three-constitutive peoples to equal use of three official languages and two letters, protection of religious, cultural and traditional heritage. And what I think is one of the most important things, which is control by the System Management Board and the Communications Regulatory Agency for respecting language, cultural traditions, then letters and traditions from all three peoples. In four amendments adopted also at Parliament's House of Representatives, it is likely that the most significant one that was the media most exposed and that almost all the media in BiH interpreted and informed the public in a way that they would talk about the three regional centres of the Public TV Service. Then they talk about three shows of the service center, all of which is not true, the public simply got the impression that three separate centres, national centres, etc. are being promoted. I don't think it's enough attention to read the law, that it's clearly said to be the three organisational units of the programme's production corporation. It's completely different from regional centres and from emission centers. In that sense, I'm asking you to observe this law, so these are organisational production units, corporations as one of the public broadcasters of the same. Of course, today we will probably try to answer the questions that are being asked before us, if we are in a position and I simply, in any sense on behalf of the Council of Ministers, can accept the conclusions of the Commission on Foreign Trade of the House of Peoples. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4571	Thank you. Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4572	At yesterday's session, the Commission for Foreign Trade Policy, 35th in a row, also discussed the Law on the Public TV System. Continuing what Mr. Bašić has already said about the content of the law itself and not entering the history of this issue takes a very long time in BiH after Dejton, and a historian who himself causes different assessments and criticism, I can say the following. We held a debate yesterday on the principles and the 25 principles of the law and the debate on amendments. In a debate on principles and principles, colleagues in the Commission representing the Croatian Club of MPs and Croatian peoples expressed their dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction with the principles and principles on which this law was made and agreed to discuss it and to discuss it through amendments. A total of 26 amendments appeared on the Commission itself. It's been two sets. First three and then 10 amendments. The club of representatives of the Croatian people, then the promoter was Mrs. Ruža Stojanović who took over the amendments previously accepted in the House of Representatives, she had 4 amendments and finally, I also had my own I don't know exactly, I mean 7-8 amendments. After the discussion of the principles, the vote on amendments passed. The final result of the vote on amendments was that, if we had adopted most votes, only amendments that had already been accepted in the House of Representatives, these are 4 amendments, all other amendments were rejected or by most votes being rejected or by the same number of votes for and against, they did not get the necessary majority again. Lastly, both the Law and the principles and the amendments and most of the votes without the vote of the representatives of the Croatian people in the Commission were voted upon. I must admit that according to my memory, in these 2.5 years or so, as far as this commission is doing, this first case, so it's really the first and only case that, in relation to any law, the representatives of a nation have not given consent to that law. It's an experience I'm not happy with, and I have to say that I'm personally dissatisfied with it. cijeniti and respecting the reasons and motives that my colleagues in the order of the Croatian people have led, to take this position, but on the other hand, the Commission has prevailed that the amendments proposed as one of the two variants were unacceptable to other colleagues in a way or that they voted against or abstentionally, which means they did not support them, I say that I may still report for the debate. In this part, I can say that I am not thrilled with the fact that the Law was passed by a majority, so one kind of vote, as I am personally not satisfied with the fact that my own amendments, or none of them have been adopted either, but these are realities. On behalf of the Commission, I can only say that, having in mind the decision of the majority of the members of the Commission, we believe that the House should consider this law, declare itself and support it. In the end, I'm going to say very clearly and very precisely. This is one of the laws of 40 laws and one of the 2 I know is the laws that fall under BiH's obligations to be met in the 16th area, so from 16 areas for the start of Stabilisation and Association negotiations. I think we've spent a lot of time getting to this point. I'm not sure that since September last year, to this day we've used very useful, I'm not sure that it took us so long to come up with this solution that once again is not a solution that everyone accepts and here I express my first criticism, and even to everyone who participated in this process, in the sense that I think that if we should have already come to a solution that is unacceptable to everyone, we should have come sooner. Anyway, we are now in a position to have this law ahead of us, and I hope that we will try to find a solution that will possibly be acceptable to everyone and if not, then we have a version that is identical to the version adopted at the House of Representatives and I expect that we will plead. Thank you very much. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4573	I thank Mr. Čengić. Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4574	Dear Mr. President, thank you very much. In some ways, it is a privilege to say first whether, especially in this situation for me, this, is a good position to say your view of one of those laws that we must adopt when then and not only is it one of those two conditions that stand before us, and to advance towards European, Euro-Atlantic integration, so that is, with police reform, one of those conditions from the Performance Study. So, with that in mind, I personally want BiH to get this law and, of course, that wish is not enough. And to give my vote for any law, so I want to make it very clear in any case that my views regarding my colleagues from the Croatian club are clearly different in certain matters and there are also things that we agree on, and I will, because of the importance of the moment we are trying to speak here, in front of you, say, from the opportunity of this two dimensions of my thinking on this legislative project. Of course, there are no ideal laws and sure that if we were to add all of this together, and if we were to scold it in a certain way, and if we were to rise up to a proper compromise, it wouldn't mean that we had a good solution once and for all. I even want to believe that during this debate there will be a consensus of views, first of all those whose number of hands is enough and in order to get me this law and in that sense, so my position is such that practically my voice will not decide but I want to say very clearly in relation to what Mr Bašić has indicated, in terms of media objections or how I realized that those amendments that passed at the House of Representatives were actually presented in a way that this does not correspond to the overall climate of the passing of this legislative project in both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. And as for Mr. Čengić, here he goes, but I will remind you that there was still a chance when there was a revote and, of course, there was movement and vital national interests, etc. and even in relation to the Constitutional Court ruling, which was unanimous by the judges, there was a retention of their own positions and thanks to the very instrument which the Constitution of BiH provided, however those who called for vital interest, experienced whether, above all, satisfaction in this regard. Of course, they are also accused of obstructing, etc. So it has to be, we're a complex state and there must be understanding and feeling that compromise solutions are being found, or so to speak, those solutions that hurt the least, because reform, and this is a kind of reform, they mean whether, that's a less painful process and that it's not a one-way street. In any case, I will remind you that and you are all familiar with the Council of Europe's recommendations on this issue, and according to these recommendations, therefore the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Europe, the State is responsible for achieving public interest with a certain measure of institutional control of public authorities over what is being broadcast with multiple selection of programmes and respect for regions and minorities. Secondly, editorial independence and institutional independence are guaranteed, and thirdly, financial independence is guaranteed through the attack system, the tv tax is as simple as that is said. 27 In other words, three inevitable elements in the construction of a public TV system are independence from politics, serving citizens by professionals and financial independence from the state through self-financing through tax. The law that we are having today, as the introduction said, has long been discussed. Some think for too long, it was done both by him and by the way he came I have no doubt that in a certain sense it was a fruit or a product whether it was a compromise. However, it is not enough to be satisfied. I must say that as far as my political views are concerned, and every project, including this, has this political dimension, that there have been some compromises in the House of Representatives itself, which are personally unacceptable to me, regardless of this warning of the distinguished Mr. Bašić. I must say that the representatives of the Commission have made it very clear, they have spoken out loud about three places where they will be taught, so the programme is produced in three languages, so it has been mentioned there three times eight hours, etc. So very clearly from the people who are members of the bodies who have accepted this, such a commitment. Personally, such a commitment is unacceptable, otherwise I will repeat, in BiH all that is divided by three, some in that figure insist, I personally prefer some other figures. So in this sense, the question could be asked, if a Croatian-language programme will be produced in Mostar, here in Sarajevo in the Bosnian language of Banja Luka, in which language, or where such a studio will be for members of national minorities and those citizens who plead as others, or who do not matter. But if we are calling for international conventions, then it is very easy to find that it is not quite so, and finally the Constitutional Court's decision on the equality of the people, it mentions others as an important category to be taken into account. Naturally, I have here a correspondence which is very specific with individual representatives of the international community, led by individual officials, primarily from the HDZ order, Mr. Čolak, with Mr. Rent, etc. And it is evident from that correspondence that some HDZ requirements have been incorporated into the law. Of course, I know that some other high-ranking officials, above all HDZ, were involved in talks with representatives of the international community that provided their assistance towards getting out of a situation where we had practically not received this law for months and it was estimated that the matter had matured and that we should simply go towards the adoption of this law. Of course, I have to say this, very clearly. When it comes to this law and the solutions that came before the House of Representatives, then the Council of Ministers decided that solutions were incorporated into the law acceptable and, of course, acceptable to the ministers of the Croatian people. So the three HDZ ministers agreed that the zakon goes the way it came to the House of Representatives. And it certainly needs to be taken care of. So, to be very specific, Mr. Čolak, Mr. Doko and Ms. Minister Ljerka Marić agreed that protection mechanisms were in place, so those elements that satisfy the needs and interests of all and, of course, Croatian peoples as constituent peoples are built in. We are now faced with amendments to the HDZ envoys, better say they had a series of amendments that were in the procedure before the House of Representatives, and we know their fate. My colleagues from the Croatian club took over whether, part of those amendments, I see that now the number is somewhat smaller. In any case, I would like to say that as far as I'm concerned, of course I don't come up with the notion that I am involved in revoted amendments to my 28 colleagues in the order of my people, but in any case, I would like to say that it is already one, conceptually, through amendments to the House of Representatives, sufficiently questioned by this project, and as far as I'm concerned, regardless of my fate, these amendments, which were directed by the Croatian club, I will plead against this law, with these amendments, which we can basically now ask for nice words and rhetoric to try to explain, to establish my views, but to me personally, at least as I am politically looking at, however, these demands firstly, of course, I have to say very directly, that I am not for one-national channels, I am not for one-national television television, programs, programs, any way you will. That's the first one. And secondly, I'm not particularly interested in you or the production or broadcasting being connected to a particular territory because it still reminds me of certain political projects that are, essentially, divided by, what's called BiH. Of course, first of all, this is the product of political divisions and of what we have in our heads and carry and thinking that we should always have our share of the cake, so if we can still locate it for not knowing Mostar, Banja Luka, Sarajevo, then it is quite clear that this is not the path towards which most BiH citizens are interested and I would say members of all people, because BiH as a common state makes sense, precisely in ensuring through its institutions equality and I personally think that unlike my colleagues from HDZ, that the interest and access to this problem is significantly different from mine and theirs, precisely because I consider that the Croatian language as one of the elements that is easily recognised is whether, by simply broadcasting on public tv service or system. I want, therefore, to respect all those provisions that are incorporated into Article 26 which are actually standards that guarantee equality. Therefore, I want both the RTV RS and the Federal TV and TV BiH, therefore the state service, to be the media in which both letters and all languages spoken by members and constitutive peoples, as well as others, so that, in accordance with the relevant conventions in programme policy and realisation, the interests of all the peoples of BiH will be met. Of course, so my approach to this problem comes down to me being able to take it from the state we have. And otherwise in all the reforms and so far we've approached to say, through the mechanical merger of what's been assigned to you, and we can't, it would be much more painful if it wasn't worth going from the beginning, is it, therefore, undoing what we have. However, this should come out in a way to ensure appropriate standards and is my view, my opinion that the primary activity in this direction, to be rough and direct, that it should go through only language and not the very language element itself, should go to the Croatian language and Bosnian language to be sufficiently on TV RS, as on the RTV Federation should be whether, also in Serbian language with these two languages and, of course, implies on this state channel, that the state service will be equal representation of language, culture, tradition, customs, science, sport, art, etc. which, in fact, reflects the identity of each of our people to a lesser or greater extent. So, I believe that it is precisely the interest of all our peoples, including my Croatian people, that it is not exactly in the solutions according to which the exclusiveist programme in Croatian will be produced in Mostar, I am rude but it simply comes down to it. In Banja Luka, in Serbian here in Sarajevo, it is in Bosnian that I think, one vile solution that basically brings one people here, another there, third in a third place in a certain sense, in the position of ghettoisation. And, otherwise, I think that when it comes to BiH, that territorialisation is in a way that it binds itself to I don't know, the language, to the nation, etc. Indeed, BiH is leading BiH into one position where the meaning of its existence is also put in place because its greatest 29th value is precisely that we can all express our interests, needs and, of course, that our expectations are met in this regard. So, I want and I want and I want and I want and I want the political and economic and media whole of BiH and our therefore and members of my people as well as the Serbian and Bosniak and all the others, who live and experience it as their own country. I really think that if we find such solutions to tie my people's language to a certain territory, to a certain channel, etc. I think we'll be at a loss as a people. I think it is not an interest, but it is precisely an interest that every inch of BiH so thanks to the International Convention on Cross-border Television, which we have also signed and ratified as a state, therefore still because we must satisfy in all of this the interests and needs of the people who live here but also our diaspora and all those who want to hear and respect that wealth of language, culture, tradition, tradition, custom, however you will, which therefore represents the identity of each of our people. So, I just know that this will have a certain political dimension, I want to believe that, therefore, that the parliamentary majority, that people who are partners and who exercise power, and about this issue will be able to find an appropriate solution, but if that is not the case, I really have to tell my colleagues from HDZ that if they really experience here that there is no support, then I ask what is with HDZ responsibility, ministers at the Council of Ministers who let this go, which is a double game. So this isn't the first time, but I want here publicly, clearly and aloud, they're not, as a rule, not here, uh, to hear this. I have no other way because I have no other communication with them, to tell them. Indeed, they are responsible if they let something enter our people's national interest, so as far as I'm concerned, it's in the interest of any people in BiH. He'd always be against getting into the national interest of any nation. And secondly, as to the survival of this, in a government like this, of course, some colleagues are thinking about it themselves. I would like to finally say that, of course, I will not vote for the Law with the amendments adopted at the House of Representatives, but unlike the situation where we have been making a statement about higher education where I was firmly convinced that there are all elements, that the Constitutional Court accepts this appeal, this time I am really in a big, big dilemma, I would rather say more and I would like to make it clear to my colleagues, so I would like to say clearly that I am not willing to sign a request for the movement of vital interest, because I am assessing that given the formulation given in the law itself, that they will not be representatives of the Croatian people, if of course they come, and that is only if there is no agreement. I therefore believe that the Constitutional Court, unlike the Law on Higher Education, will not
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4575	I would ask you not to mention the Constitutional Court in that context, it's a pressure on the Court and it's lobbying for something, for your political opinion. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4576	I understand that you're nervous,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4577	I'm not nervous, but don't be 30.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4578	Of course, you have as chairman the possibility, as soon as I'm done saying it and in that respect, of course it remains a replica to me, if I estimate that it is meaningful. So there's no Constitutional Court here, I'm talking to my colleagues, I'm talking about things that I think are what they are. The debate makes sense that the power of the arguments will allow each of us to decide on our own conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4579	I thank Mr. Limov. Who else wants to talk? Are there any reports?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4580	Here, Mr. Jukić answered his word. Here you go, Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4581	Dear colleagues, respected guests, the Law to the RTV system of BiH is without a doubt a very important system law, one of 16 conditions for meeting the requirements of the Implementation Study. And that's what's said here, so it further says how important and important the law is and how important it is to solve this issue in one correct way at this time, to pass the right law, the law that will be adopted. I expected from the great majority in Parliament but it seems to me that things are now standing, that they are not accepted by the representatives of a constituent people and that is a big problem for me. I feel like a big problem. Some don't seem to me, and that's why they reach for arguments, by argument of the number of hands, not by argument of facts and by not making arguments. I'll try as fast as I can and I'll say what I think is most important. I'll start with a history of solving this issue. First of all, after the Dayton Peace Agreement, we had a situation where three TV services worked in BiH, so let's call them that. One in RS, one in Sarajevo and one in Mostar. I wouldn't say names, I'm not sure, so I wouldn't want to say something wrong, which I'm not quite sure of in my name. In '99, a document bearing the title, a possible transformation of the RTD system in BiH, was made, where it was described, an elaborated situation which was with the idea that the situation which was then considered insufficiently good, bad, unsatisfactory, etc. under some new circumstances, the circumstances of peace that has come to the Dayton Peace Agreement, do a transformation that will meet the needs of people and citizens in BiH. However, nothing concrete has been done except one document that has experienced the fate of ending up in a drawer. So none of that ever came true. It's the end of '99. For years, and the decision by international representatives to get out of me unknowns, that's what I'm going to say here at the pay phone, for reasons to shut down Erotell's TV signal in Mostar. I don't know, I haven't read and I don't have that document that was done, but I'm going to say what I heard back then. I think that's what a certain Mrs. Aris Beneš said at the time of the OHR spokeswoman when she said from the occasion next, I'll paraphrasise it, but I'll be sure to say it. So it's said that the reason Erotela's TV signal is being broadcast from an Earth transmitter from another country. So it's thought very specifically of a receiver or transmitter at St. Yuri's on Biokov. Well, let's say we can take that as an explanation. But not long after that, just a few months or perhaps even shorter, another TRV house in BiH gets the right to use the same transmitter, the same technique from 31 of the same place. So, ground transmitter at St. Yuri's on Biokov. Very interesting. So it wasn't that reason at all, but something else was the reason. We don't have to go any further, trying to get into power after the Alliance's arrival in 2000, again we know in what way, but I won't comment on it, trying to solve this issue. So, edit the RTV system of BiH. But then there are radical attempts, ideas, etc. and it ends in 2002, when it is said that it cannot and that it is not solved, which is evident that it has not been solved. Again, let's say the third in a series of attempts, thinking about how to solve this, two years ago, when it... quoteed here, I don't know what to call it, the College or prime ministers, so the Council of Ministers and Entity Governments, are agreeing and establishing general or general principles to settle this issue. Very interesting. It's really very interesting. With all due respect to the Prime Minister, respecting their powers, etc. and merits and good deeds and abilities, etc. I believe that they do not have a mandate on this issue alone, to decide and establish the main guidelines and fundamental principles for the regulation of this issue, especially if we know that it is a matter of very important and important importance, a question which is certainly a matter of vital interest to every people. Not only constitutive, but also for other peoples and citizens and other communities living in BiH. Of course this composition is two-ethnic and non-troethnic, so no Hrvat. Furthermore, this same body, or in the coordination of the Council of Ministers, appoints a working, professional, expert group of 15 people, to make a proposal for a law or two. So, the System and Service Act. And yet it's a very interesting composition. There are two representatives of the Croatian people. And, very interesting that after only one or two meetings, these two representatives of the Croatian people leave the work of this commission. To whom this is very interesting, is anyone wondering why? Is there a question of whether the Commission has a mandate to deal with such an important issue and a problem of one nation? Of course not. And another thing. These two Hrvat in the composition of this commission were people who may be experts, perhaps they are, I will not argue about this but certainly have no electoral legitimacy or indirect or direct, and other members of this commission, expert body, experts, etc. have at least one third of them, has certain and electoral legitimacy, whether through executive or legislative authority. And finally, I'm going to say something about the results of this expert group's work. The results of this expert group's work when it's had this history, and this is how it works, it's known what they can be, very bad. Bad for everyone, and especially for those without whom they were made, which is without a representative of the Croatian people. It may seem to someone here that my dictionary is a little heavy, a man a little too much to talk about ethnically, etc. But all I'm saying is facts. And anything I say here, let it be freely and publicly denied to me. The resolutions of this law, i.e., these laws are contrary to a large number, significant number of international documents, are contrary to our constitution, and most importantly, to Article 2 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. It is in significant contrast with the European recommendations and directives that I think should be held as one of the fundamental principles. And the fundamental principle of making these laws should be our constitution and especially its Article 32 2. However, some other principles and other principles determine the opposite of our constitution both against European recommendations and directives. What is the biggest problem, the lack of this law on the RTV system, is disrespecting our crops, disrespecting the fundamental principle for BiH and for the future of BiH as I understand it, which is equal rights, equal collective rights of constituent peoples, and in accordance with the European Convention on the Protection of Rights and Human Freedoms defined the rights of other peoples, i.e. other minorities and representatives of other communities. It didn't come out here because it wasn't the starting point or the principle. Furthermore, it is also said, one of the important principles of financial sustainability. It is absolutely important, absolutely important, but financial sustainability is such a questionable term, such a flexible notion and cannot be in my opinion because it is flexible, not clearly and precisely defined, it cannot possibly be at the top of the priorities, it cannot possibly be. Why? Because financial sustainability can be ensured in many ways. Some other principles must be at the top of the priorities to meet this law. And that's, I already said which one. So, secure equal rights for everyone in BiH. Furthermore, there are no countries in Europe, none, and there are fewer, there are poorer than BiH that are trying to organise, or that it has organised its public TV system on only one state channel. It doesn't exist, it doesn't exist, and it won't be me responsible for it. Why? For purely practical reasons, the inability to ensure that public television rTV broadcasters meet all those public needs that are put on the job, which should be provided by that broadcaster, because this is impossible. Here's just one example. At a time of major international sports events, such as the Olympics, World Cups, etc., when people want to follow, I don't know, today neither do I 10-15 hours programme, how it will organise any, not important, now another issue which is not a political issue at all, but a technical issue. How a programme scheme can be provided and harmonised, including reduced and adapted, etc., to ensure two requirements. That's impossible. Especially when we look back at the solution in this law, which is the highlight of unprofessionalism and even tendence, to say that the signal should not cross the entity line. Look, the entity line can't cross a TV signal that's an electromagnetic wave, so it's not physical, it's not particles, it's not matter, it's a wave, and we adopted the Law last year at this time somehow on cross-border television, very interesting. Furthermore, certain improvements that you mentioned here, initially on behalf of the promoter, were really done last year, since that law that didn't pass in the House of Representatives and I want to point out here, these improvements are very significant and have somewhat improved the disastrously bad bill but only somewhat. Because, significantly, they couldn't because the law, in my opinion, is a conceptally ill-conceived. Now, to just, so I'm going to bring it to an end, I don't want to bully you any further, because I know that my speech won't change the position of my colleagues, but I'm still going to read just a few recommendations from the Council of Europe, or the EU, and say the discrepancies of our solutions, our law with these recommendations. Recommendation 1506 of Article 10. The European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, where it says that the recent European Court of Human Rights rulings have made it clear that Strazbur is still, that it is still seen as part of the individual right to express the guaranteed Article 10, etc. It says cultural diversity, as a aspect of pluralism. Pluralism is a fundamental principle of European media policy. In Europe, 33 cultural diversity is an integral part of Europe's cultural identity. Here, instead of Europe should say BiH, it fits ideally BH is the real parades, therefore, of that Europe. Europe in small. But that doesn't work for us. Furthermore, he says he talks about European tradition, to particularly cultivate cultures, cultural diversity and identity, promote cultures, minority cultures, etc. That's what we do here the opposite of what it says. Furthermore, I will quote just one or two other recommendations under the number 748 of the Council of Europe which speak what are minimum terms and requirements for national broadcasters or broadcasting. So, by the state, it doesn't matter. It says, multiple selections of programmes with due respect for interest, regions etc. And he says, not on one channel. And we insist on exactly on one channel, without the possibility of a choice. So, totally diametrically opposite. Furthermore, it is also said that the public broadcaster, public television, must be responsible for someone's accounts. Who? First of all, to the professional public, but also to Parliament. In our first version, I'm going to say that here for all of us again, there was nothing planned. That's just infused later. And this right here is the top priority when it comes to the conditions that need to be met. Furthermore, employment policy is also discussed. I'm not saying this without reason because the current state of affairs, the national structure of employees, is disastrously unacceptable in all services and throughout the system. Especially at the expense of the Hrvat, I'll do it again. And yet, it's even worse when you have, when you look at the structure of the editorial management structure, even worse. Then it is also said about what people do in the country, what is their job but also their obligation, and so it is said that parliaments need to set goals and Radio TV votes, to vote on the resources they need to achieve these goals and to verify that they have been successfully achieved. It is up to the state government to provide monetary mechanisms for implementing these decisions and for professionals to produce programs that meet these requirements. So, Parliament to define the goal, the government provides funds and on the part of journalists it is that regardless of all doing quality programs. The same cancer is said of expensiveness, priced. The truth is that the model that is most adaptable to the BH system, most appropriate, is not the cheapest. It's logical, it's clear, but BiH is not such a state either that it has some cheapest and... the best solutions, but the best solutions are the only solutions that are good solutions for BH, so it says, it's clear to everyone and a well-known, purely commercial goal and the public service goal, are in contrast. Absolutely correct. So if we want television, the public service provides certain public interests, and we define the goals, then it's known that it's not the cheapest. Why? Well, it's also known that there are limits to the amount of commercial programme services, in the amount of advertising, etc. Furthermore, it has been said that TV is independent of politics. But I think she's a little independent and responsible for her job. I think that's the problem, and in that part too, one part of the problem needs to be sought for the current rather difficult situation. 34 Now I will try very little to say what I am informed of by the representatives of the international community on the issue of the TV system. Very clearly, earlier than about a year ago, representatives of the international community said what is unacceptable. So it's said to be an unacceptable monoethnic channel, a monolinguistic channel, etc. And, I think I'm pretty flagmatic, I say, let's just say, let's do this, do the amendments, to respect that principle, because maybe what we've been talking about and thinking about, whether that part of our solution was unacceptable, let's do the amendments that don't make up any specifics, so neither linguistic nor ethnic. And it's not working. So that's not the reason. I'm afraid to assume what the other reason is. I'm really afraid to assume what the other reason is. Or someone's found something somewhere and it can't be any different than that. I think most of us should be, when we realize we've made a mistake, let's say I made a mistake, there's a better solution, let's make a better solution. But I also have to say something else here, let it be known, that especially in recent months, I have personally been able to talk more times about this issue with some international community or state-wide predators, not from our environment, to say immediately, who have an understanding of our demands and our way of seeing this issue solved. I responsibly argue that these solutions are not good, they are not good to anyone and I claim that they are to the detriment of the Croatian people as the fewth people in BiH. Why? It's very clear. We have two entity emitters, which are once again one association to something else, etc., and we have one state-owned who, in my opinion, is a lot less powerful, due to internal weaknesses. But also, then we have a system that is weak in itself. It was just said here, some fine phrases, permission complimentary, permission I don't know, three licenses, three licenses, etc., I mean very interesting. I don't see that there's anything but three services that are loose, very loosely connected once I don't know how I'd call it a corporation that actually has no authority for nothing and in its work it's proven from the opportunity that it can't actually do almost anything. And I'm going to just point out one more question here, and that's the question of paying a rtt fee tax. It is known that a very significant percentage of Hrvat in BiH do not want to pay a rtv tax. It would be very interesting to conduct an examination of why these people don't pay a rtv fee. I'll say what the answer would be, in my opinion. Because they are not satisfied with the content of the programme, nor now, especially after such a concept and arrangement, if this is the case, I hope there will be no such system in BiH. I don't think it's a good way to continue the practice of revoteing a nation and using the power of the number of hands against the force in me, very high-quality arguments. The arguments are I mean on our side, and the number of hands is what is not on our side, but against us. And just one comment, to my colleague Tomo Limov, I don't mind giving any political attitude. This is certainly the basic rule in democracy but it is not good to speak or assume publicly after a pay phone what a judicial authority or body in BiH will eventually do and especially not the highest, not the Constitutional Court. I'd like to see that body of any kind, so I'll say it again, the fateful body doesn't mention it here because every mention of it publicly, I can agree with someone that it's a kind of suggestion, not to say a kind of pressure. Here, just so much I don't want to say anything about this. So, you don't need to mention, you have to speak your opinions, and you don't have to say anything about what they're going to do and what they're doing, it's my opinion, one thing if we have a chance sometimes, and we don't have a proper delay, etc. How much, to see statistically, from some cases solved, 35 were not solved, etc., as there was a process in another I don't know the space either, as some general trends of crime are now etc. etc. In that sense. Here, I really said what I meant most importantly, naturally if I had a lot more to say but that would be just within this, is what I said, I thank you all for your attention and I hope that we will at least have so much today's will and the Commission's report not to accept, ask that the Commission meet again, to put together if possible a new and different report in order to avoid this situation to revote anyone in this House. Thank you. Mr. Limov, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4582	It is your right, Mr. President, to experience what I say, as it suits you. However, it is the right of representatives in the State paralament to publicly refer to every institution in this country and make their views public. That's why it doesn't answer, so it's legitimate my thinking publicly. It's your right to experience it as you think. I appreciate, there is no court here, the court is acting autonomously, and it is truly underestimating to think that one of my discussions will affect the court's behaviour and particularly the court's judgment.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4583	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4584	Madam Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I will immediately say that I will not bother you because much has already been said. And what I agree with and what I disagree with, and probably a good part of a discussion I didn't even understand until the end. I'll try from another aspect. I will not pretentiously say it, elaborate just a few words or sentences to use to look at the situation where we are at the 12th point of the agenda. The situation you believe me to be sad today. And whenever a situation like this happens or happens, no matter who it is, in this house, no matter what name or what people it is, I feel the way I feel today. Not because I'm disappointed, not because I don't understand a lot of things, not because I don't see a way out because for a living man and for the people of this country, there is a way out. And we'll find him. If I didn't believe deep, I wouldn't live in it. But I don't want out of it anywhere, and I want to do in it what we're talking about and every right that we're talking about here. I see this space, this country as a country that, at this moment and in the last 10 years, but also in its perspective, in its complete future, needs respect, respect, respect and trust most. When we create it, or when we achieve it, and especially trust, then we will at the same time achieve it, I am deeply convinced, and mechanisms to protect us all. Then we'll be absolutely protected. It's a mechanism 36 to achieve what this country deserves. And justice and justice. It would be pretentious to believe that we are in that state at this time or that we will be in that state in a short time that is ahead of us, but it is also possible and it is absolutely possible to believe that soon we will be in a state of realization of what I'm talking about. And we won't talk about processes and trying to stop the process. What it means is who's laying out the truth about the process and stopping the process. We opted for processes. And if anyone wants to stop them, then we don't want to stop them here. We won't stop them. And it's about imputing or uninformed or malicious. The process will go and this country will be where geographically from its existence it is. Secondly, the condition we're in right now, I don't know how right I am, but we seem to be all losers in this state because we don't and we can't question anyone's right. I'm talking about justice and justice. According to this, who feels this space, who feels both right and justice, cannot fundamentally question anyone's right, not the individual, not the group, not the people, not the people. So finally, let us remove fear of more or less equality from more equal and less equal. Let's all be the same. I ask the question to international officials, to the international community in this country, under which the criteria set up systems in BiH, and these systems were ballast to that democratic Europe in the last century and it got rid of them. What are the values there that are not worth here, and by these values, we need to join the EU and join Euro-Atlantic integration. How is it that, in the heart of the European Parliament in Brussels, the Commission for South East Europe and all its members talk quite differently from those they have prepared here to help us, not to make a democratic BiH, but to help us make this country a democratic country, because we are democratically making this country ourselves? What does it mean, what's it about? In the case of one institution, only different officials and different, geographically different missions. Secondly, I would certainly like to remove from this problem what may be done without any intention of trying to give and impose this problem, which is politics. Perhaps it was better that there were a lot more policies in this problem, then another way would be to discuss this problem, with much more respect, with much more consent and with much more goodwill. Unfortunately, this isn't about politics, it's about law and fundamental human rights, and that's the right to language. If someone isn't experiencing it with their primary right, it's his right again. I recognize his right, let him give up that right, the rights of his own collectiveity and the rights of his own people, but for his own sake. I'm just asking him not to give up that right on my behalf. It is simply a right here that is not given and cannot be given for anything, and that right actually enables all of us to choose and to believe, that there is no man who has a problem with both the other language and the other language perception. This is strictly about the right to rights but the right to the right is also about making a fair choice. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4585	I thank Mr. Zrn. Who else wants to talk? I don't see any more reports. 37 I made a proposal here. We should have made a statement about him before moving to the adoption of the Law in the first reading. I'll do my proposal, or I'll do it again. So, I suggest that we not adopt the Commission's report, but return it and ask the Commission to meet again and try to find a solution that will be achieved by not overcoming. This is my thinking and my suggestion. I think we should make a statement about him and then, depending on the results, we'll move on. If there's a need for a short break, we can, if not, whether you wanted Hilmo, if you will. Okay, then here's a five-minute break. It doesn't need any more. Okay, I suggest we move on. [[PAUZA]] So we had one shorter break than about five times five minutes, so we're hoping to use to consult if it's about this proposal. So I used Article 90(3) to make a request for a new report, etc., from the Rules of Procedure, and here I will call for a statement on this request. So, I call for a statement on the proposal to return the report to the commission for review. It says here in point 3. new facts. New facts can be political will, it's actually the most important thing, if there is one. If it's not there, then any fact or new fact seems to me it's not enough and vice versa. The political will is enough, the argument certainly has, but in order for me not to abuse this position, I call for a statement. Therefore, the proposal is to postpone the adoption of the Commission's report and return to the Commission for review, of course expecting a different report to be made in order to avoid any revotes. Here's a suggestion. Who's up for a proposal like this? Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I figure she's five votes in, and how many? 10 v, the request for a return of the report to the Commission for review has been rejected. We're coming up with a statement on amendments, sorry, following the adoption of the law in the first reading, I apologize. So, we've closed the debate. Who is for the adoption of the Law in the first reading? Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I find, in the first reading, the law was passed with 10 votes in favour, and five votes against, without abstentions. 38 We have come to know whether we will go to another reading today or not. Who's in favour of going to another reading today? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I agree that with 8 votes for, 2 abstentions and 5 against, we have adopted that the proposal for a law on the RTTV system of BiH is also being discussed in the second reading. Sir, Radovanović, do you need to explain something or not?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4586	Business only to see if you can go, here's the College to see... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4587	Is there a need to explain something? Okay, second reading is about amendments and voting on the law. The new amendments were submitted by the Croatian People's Representatives' Club. I'm going to be here, just to be more expedient, using my right to Article 91 where it's about the way, so the order of consideration of the amendments, so I'm going to suggest we do it the next way. So, that first and that should have been done by whoever was doing this reminder, but good. So I suggest we first consider one group of amendments, which is I don't know what materials you have, so the amendment here says number VI. It means that Amendment number I, in Article 7(2), is changed and said – the Committee of the Systems consists of 10 members, 3 of the order of the constituent peoples, 1 of the order of the others. The system committee elects the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for a period of 4 years. The Committee shall be elected after the public tender procedure has been carried out, which shall be opened and implemented by the Communications Regulatory Agency and shall establish a list of candidates that meet the conditions. Is there any need to comment on this amendment? If not, I call upon my colleagues to plead on this amendment. Who's in favor of this amendment? Who's against it? Abstained? Thank you. I find that, most of the votes against, four votes in favour of, one abstention, we have rejected this amendment. Amendment number II, in Article 10(2), is amended and reads - the Council of Ministers of BiH is required to ensure, by 30.6.2006 at the latest, all financial and technical conditions for the broadcasting of public BH RT service programmes on three channels in order to achieve collective and individual human rights of constituent peoples and others, in accordance with Article 10. The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the Goals set out in the programme principles referred to in Article 26 of this Law. If I may, I would very briefly comment on this amendment. Dear colleagues, this is actually a key amendment and this was a way for this law to really be corrected in its concept, in its purpose and ultimately in its own, it seems to me that it fulfils its function that this amendment could be incorporated into this law. In fact, in my earlier speech, when there was talk of principles and principles, I was talking about our basic request, my disagreement with the solution set out in this law. It was contained in its main section and began to fix through this amendment. So, I'm curious, what are the arguments of the promoter, including the representative of the international community, against this amendment. This amendment tomorrow is actually a day, bringing legislation into line with the vast majority of those international European and other documents, recommendations and directives with which the law itself does not comply. I've been quoting them here for the last 3-4 and there's more. In my opinion, to a significant extent, the law has brought it into considerable compliance with our Constitution. And to me, he's not in agreement now. This amendment brings our system in a position to respond to those tasks that public TV system has in every democratic country in the world. In this way he won't answer, I say responsibly. This amendment does not contain in itself what was unacceptable for the international community, in some of our thinkings, I speak on behalf of the HDZ and on behalf of the Croatian club in this house, when some definitions contained ethnic definitions and linguistic definitions, monolinguistic definitions, this article, this amendment does not contain it in itself. This amendment also takes care that the system is being made financially sustainable today and for some other time again financially sustainable. Because here it says that this here should be done gradually. So, for half a year, another channel on BH TV, for another year and a little more, if there's a chance, if there's... conditions etc. So there is no argument not to accept, at least for me, a valid argument not to accept this amendment. This amendment is important and this is the essence of our demands. The other amendments, this one in front, and those that follow behind, are only actually logical to follow the implementation of this amendment. Is there anyone else who needs to talk? If not, I call on us to plead on this amendment. So the amendment was read and I wouldn't repeat it. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you. I find that with four votes in favour, nine votes against, one abstention, we have rejected this amendment. Amendment III, in Article 16(3), the following words – Regulatory Agency, shall be inserted and the syntagma other than suspension and suspension shall be deleted. Who wants to talk? There are no reports. 40 I call for a statement on this amendment. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you. I find that with nine votes against, four votes to, one abstention, this amendment has been rejected. We're going to another group of amendments. Amendment number I, in Article 1(1), word - three, replace the word - four, and do the same in the following articles, Articles 2, 6, 10, 12, 13, 14, 18 and 42. Who's answering for a word? Niko. I call for a statement on the amendment. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you. I understand that with nine votes against four gals in one abstention, we have rejected the amendment. Amendment number II from the second group. In Article 3(1), point (b) is changed and reads – b) of the Federation of BiH, in the following text of the Croatian Federation of BiH Sarajevo, as the Public TV Service of the Federation of BiH in Bosnian, point (c) is changed and reads - the Croatian Federation of BiH Mostar, the Croatian Public TV Service Mostar. So far, point (c) becomes a point (d) which reads – Republika Srpska's TV in the further text of RT RS Banja Luka, as the Public TV service of Republika Srpska in Serbian. The present point (d) becomes a point e), point 2 is amended and reads – the laws on BHTR, the Croatian Federation of BiH Sarajevo, the Croatian Federation of BiH Mostar and RT RS Banja Luka, will be in line with the provisions of this law. Who's answering for a word? I call for a statement on this amendment. Who's in favor of this amendment? Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you. I agree, with eight votes against, four votes against and two abstentions, we have rejected this amendment. Amendment number III, in Article 7(2), number 12, replaced by 6, 16, excuse me. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I call for a statement on this amendment. Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? Thank you. I agree, with eight votes against, four votes against, two abstentions, we have rejected this amendment. 41 Amendment number IV, in Article 8(3), the number 7 is replaced by the number 9. Who's answering for a word? I call for a plea. Who's in favour of this amendment? Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you. I find that with eight votes against, two abstentions and four votes in favour, we have rejected this amendment. Amendment number V, in Article 9(1), at the end of the second row and in the third line of the word - two, replace the word - three. Item 2 is amended and reads - two, the BiH Council of Ministers together with the Federation of BiH Government is required to ensure, within a year of the entry into force of this law, all financial and technical conditions for the establishment of the Federation of BiH Public TV Service in Croatian pursuant to Article 3(1)(1c) of this law. Who's answering for a word? Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I appreciate that. I agree, with eight votes against and two votes abstentioned, and four votes in favour, we rejected this amendment. Nine against, sorry if I miscounted. Thank you for correcting Mr. Brk. But it's equal to 8 as 9 in this case. Amendment number VI, in Article 12(1), replace the text in brackets with the text – BHRT, comma, RTFBiH Sarajevo, RTFBiH – link Mostar and RT RS. In paragraph 4, add Mostar at the end. Who's answering for a word? Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? Thank you. I find that with nine votes against, two abstentions and four votes against, the amendment was rejected. Amendment No VII, in Article 15(1) point (n) after the word – system, add – Director of BHRT / Short-interrupted link/ Who is against? Who's being held back? I find that with nine votes against, two abstentions and four votes, this amendment has been rejected. Amendment number VIII, in Article 23(4), following the words – RTFBiH, add – Sarajevo and number 25 to be replaced by 20. Item 5 is changed and reads – RTFBiH Mostar, 20% of net revenues from marketing advertising and 20% of the total amount of RTV tax charged on BiH territory. The current paragraph 5 becomes paragraph 6 and figures in it – 29 are replaced by a number – 20. The current item 6 becomes item 7 and figure – 50 is replaced by the number – 40. 42 Who Answers the Word? Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you. I find that with nine votes against, two abstentions and four votes in favour, we reject the amendment. And, lastly, Amendment IX, in Article 26(3) in point 4 of the words – public tv service, replace the word – BHRT, and in point 5. words – Public tv services, replace the word – BHRT. Who's answering for a word? Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you. I agree, with nine votes against, two abstentions and four votes in favour, we rejected this amendment. Mr. Spajić, Mr. Spajić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4588	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, here we have heard and now it means, this law that was on the Commission yesterday and today here at the House, unfortunately this is how it went. There was no good will, that he was not happy, only he was happy and the rest were not. Well, then, let them think for a future bar. Since information is vital in terms of interests, in front of the Croatian club, I declare this law harmful to Croatian vital interests, and I call on Mr. Ilija Filipović to submit an elaborate on the harmfulness of the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4589	Thank you, Mr. Spajić. Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4590	Dear ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of Article 4.3e of the Constitution of BiH and Article 134. The Rules of Procedure of the House of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and before the decision of the 43rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH held on 29 June 2005 on the Proposal for a Law on the Public TV System of BiH, the governmental signatures of... MPs from the Croatian People's House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, so we declare them harmful to the vital interests of the Croatian people, the proposal for a law on the Public TV system of BiH, for the following reasons. The Bible’s Viewpoint, 1 / 1 Proposers of the Law on the Public TV System of BiH did not closely follow certain binding standards of the BiH Constitution as well as the relevant provisions of international legal acts on guaranteed human rights under equal conditions for all but not fully European standards and practices governing this issue in the countries of 43 multilingual communities. In particular, as regards the equality of the use of official languages in BiH, in public broadcaster programmes, i.e. public electronic media in BiH, although some of them are called for in the interpretation of the Law, and for not accepting the first proposed amendments, Amendment I to Article 7(2) of Amendment II to Article 9(2) and Amendment III to Article 16, as well as for not accepting the second-proposed version of the amendment from Amendment I to Amendment IX. Both versions of the amendment and other arguments presented in this draft will be attached to this act. And, in particular, because of our refusal to do so, the key amendments to Article 7.2 and Article 9.2 of the Law on the Public TV System of BiH, i.e. the first proposed amendments I and II and, thereafter, the second proposed amendments II to Article 3.1b), c) and d) and 3.2 and Amendment V to Articles 9.1 and 9.2 of the Croatian People's Club of Representatives in the House of Peoples, both at the annual Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy and at the 43rd session of the House of Peoples after being renewed and published in the manner read by the chairman when the House was decided. Pod, 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on The European Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms guarantees the right to free expression, of course information. We keep relevant some views of the Council of Europe expert group, the Human Rights Directorate-General, the Media Resor, or the Press Mass Supervisory Committee, in December 2002, which, in its report on the media pluralism and diversity panel, suggests that Europe's countries take concrete measures to protect media pluralism. Chapter (a)1 of point 8, 9 and 10 of that report states, in point 8, the recent European Court of Human Rights ruling clearly shows that Štrazburg still sees freedom of the media as part of the individual right to freedom of expression of the guaranteed Article 10.1 of the Convention. The European Court of Human Rights underlines other decisions the need to guarantee media pluralism in the context of Article 10. Convention. the ninth point, the 9th need to guarantee media pluralism in the context of Article 10. The Permanent Court of Human Rights Convention also stresses in other decisions the importance of audiovisual media in a democratic society. Point 10 shows that the European Court of Human Rights recently paid great attention to the social, cultural, political and democratic role of the media, although this has been done in the context of the restrictions referred to in Article 10.2. This Regulation shall enter The Convention, not only protects the individual rights of non-media freedom, but also prescribes a commitment to ensure pluralism of opinion and cultural diversity of the media in the interest of carrying out democracy and freedom of information for all. Pluralism is a fundamental principle of European media policy, closed down by adversaries. Furthermore, in the same report, the Council of Europe on Media pluralism and diversity is listed, the open quotes "a) 2.11 in Europe is cultural diversity, an integral part of Europe's cultural identity. The media's ability to reflect cultural diversity depends on media plurality. a) 2.13 The European tradition highlights the value of cultural diversity by not allowing some cultures to win over smaller cultures." The conclusions and recommendations of the same report state that I am opening quotes under f)90, ” Article 10. The European Conventions on Human Paws and the European Court of Human Rights rulings agree that countries have an obligation to protect and, if necessary, take positive measures to preserve and improve media plurality. Today, it requires governments to act concretely and resolutely against growing media concentration. 44 Under f)93, the specificity of each country, in particular the rules for this sector, should be designed to preserve and ensure plurality and diversity in the media. General competition rules can only play a complementary role with regard to concentration in the media sector. Pod, 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms warns that it is necessary to ensure that the rights and freedoms of the Convention are enjoyed without discrimination on any basis, including the right to language, i.e. information. 4. The recommendation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe 748 of 1975 on the 26th regular session, the Annex to the draft minimum requirements for national broadcasting, brings out the request. Under, a) Full public service including a multiple selection of programmes with the obligation to respect the interests of regions and minorities, although not broadcast exclusively on one single channel. Closed quote. 5. Recommendation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe No 1147 of 1991, the 43rd regular session. Under point 4, there is no unique solution for the organisation of radio and television, models vary from country to country and are subject to the process of permanent adaptation. Furthermore, the same recommendation is, I quote, on parliaments to set goals for radio televisions to vote on the funds they need to achieve these goals and to verify that they are successful. Under, 6. Article 2.1 of the General Declaration on Human Rights, clearly states that "all rights and freedoms declared in this declaration do not differ in terms of race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other circumstances". Seven. Article 1.2 The BiH Constitution defines Bosnia and Herzegovina as a democratic state. 8. Article 2.1 The Constitution guarantees the highest degree of internationally recognised human paves and fundamental freedoms. Nine. Article 2.4 The BiH Constitution ensures the enjoyment of the rights and freedoms provided for in this Article or in the international agreements listed in Annex I of the BiH Constitution for all persons in BiH without discrimination on any basis. Annex I of the BiH Constitution contains in 15 points a list of additional human rights agreements to be applied in BiH, and we find it particularly important to point out the provision of Article 19.2 of the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights, and in particular Article 11 which speaks about the European Charter on Regional Languages and Minority Languages. I quote Article 11.1 "Those who serve regional or minority languages within the territories in which these languages are spoken, and in accordance with the position of each language, to whom the state authority is directly or indirectly competent, have powers or 45 operate in that field and respecting the principles of independence and independence of the state's media, the parties provide. Under, a) The extent to which radio and television perform public service tasks. The Bible’s Viewpoint, 1 / 1 Ensure the establishment of at least one radio station and one television channel in regional or minority languages or floor, 2. Encourage and or enable the establishment of at least one radio station of one television channel in regional minority languages or, under 3. Bring in appropriate regulations so that radio stations offer programmes in regional or minority languages. ( b) 1. Help or also enable action, at least one radio station in regional or minority languages, or 2. Encourage and or facilitate regular broadcasting of radio programmes in regional or minority languages. c) 1. Encourage and or enable the establishment of at least one television channel in regional or minority languages or floor, 2. Encourage and or facilitate broadcasting of television programmes logs in regional or minority languages. d) Encourage and or facilitate production and distribution of audio and audiovisual creation in regional or minority languages, and e) Support the education of journalists and other staff in the media using regional or minority languages. Third, States Parties undertake to ensure that the interests of those who serve regional or minority languages will be presented or taken into consideration under the means of such bodies, which can be established in accordance with the law with responsibility for guaranteeing freedom and pluralism of the media." It's a finished quote from this article. The above shows that minorities and regional minority languages, in democratic Europe, are the heritage of those rights that are unconstitutional to the Croatian people in the new organisation of public broadcasters in BiH, because Hrvat are not a minority in BiH, which is why I have read what minorities have, but a constitutive people with a completely equal rights with two other constituent nations, and the Croatian language is neither a regional minority, but an official language in equal use and in the private and public sphere, as well as two other official languages in BiH, which was not taken into account by the legislator and which is why the constitutional principle of equality has been violated. The proposed and disputed legal solutions by the Hrvat to BiH are our culture, traditional heritage and language in the offered concept of public broadcasters, placed in a discriminatory position, compared to the other two constituent nations. The BiH Constitution does not define any of its provisions as a majority collectiveity with special rights in relation to the other two peoples in BiH, i.e. it prefers no majority and provides any preferential treatment to any constituent people, in anything in the RS or in the Federation of BiH, or at BiH level. Unfortunately, by proposing a contested law, especially in the application of the programme principles set out in Article 26. The law, given that the mechanisms for its implementation are not defined, leaves the possibility of free decision for officials in the human rights structure of public 46 broadcasters to, as they have been, under quotes, the measurement of when and how many of the official languages will be kept silent in public rTV media programmes, and, to what extent, under quotes, to respect national, regional, traditional, religious, cultural, language and other characteristics of the constituent peoples and all citizens of BiH, which is absolutely unacceptable for the Croatian people and presents a legitimate danger of continuing to manipulate and unfair treatment in the programmes of public services of all mentioned fundamental rights of the constituent peoples and citizens of BiH and at the expense of Hrvat in BiH. In addition, the Hrvatiu of BiH are also an inevitable component of the general public which also finance public broadcasters, which is why they do not want to suffer unfair and asymmetric solutions, but expect equal status in this area guaranteed by the Constitution. Isn't it respected, gentlemen, that the group of two nations and others does not object to the legal solutions offered to form a public broadcaster system in BiH. Perhaps the answer in the fact that we have heard more than once from the authorising officer of the Council of Ministers' proposal, as stated in the explanation of the draft contested law, that the chairmans of the Council of Ministers and entity prime ministers of 6.11.2003, signed an agreement on the basic principles for the Public RTV System of BiH, consisting of three rTV services and a common infrastructure. Therefore, the principles for a law regulating this important issue of vital national interest and for the Croatian people have been established without Hrvat and to the harm of the Croatian people in BiH. Ten. The Constitution of the Federation of BiH, Article 4a)17, defines the language and system of public information as issues of vital national interest. 11. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 70 of the amended amendment, also includes the language, and I quote, "the system of public information defines issues of vital national interest". 12. In addition, the bill does not guarantee consistency, I quote "implementation of the relevant constitutional provision concerning equal rights of the constitutive peoples and others in BiH" closed quotes, regarding the equality and application of the official languages of the Bosnian, Croatian and Serbian and most importantly, equal interpretation of all forms of cultural and other values in public service programmes at the state or entity level. Or, even more specifically, the question arises, why the concept of this law did not follow constitutional institutional equality of constitutional peoples such as the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers or the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, or perhaps the Committee of the House of Peoples who are also on a parity basis. A syntagma of constitutive peoples, a concept of collective national rights of peoples and others, with no constituent people able to exercise their rights in isolation, separate and exclusive reserved, but only in the relations of reciprocity and parity of the consumption of all rights and equal rights to public media within BiH and at BiH level. Equally, the existing concept of the contested law has been maintained and the asymmetricity of the solution to the harm of the Croatian people since two public services remain on the entity level. One in a smaller entity, defacto exclusively in Serbian and other in the Federation mostly in Bosnian, where Hrvat in BiH and the Federation of BiH cannot satisfy occasional informative and 47 other primordial shows along with Catholic holidays, most often in a very bad Croatian language. Since the bill is not guaranteed evenly equal, let alone the highest degree of internationally recognised human rights and fundamental freedoms, with regard to the equal situation of the constituent peoples in public broadcasters in BiH, we believe that we have offered in the parliamentary procedure equal terms for all fair solutions to representation, cultural and other diversity of the constituent peoples and others, especially the use of official languages in public broadcaster programmes at BiH level, which is unfortunately not supported, although the solution offered is neither against domestic nor international legal nor legal norms and is in line with European practice. The proposed solution to the correction of Article 9 The law, both with the first and second versions of the rejected amendments of the Croatian People's Club of Representatives, is consistent with the specificities and intermediations of the overall historical and traditional relations in BiH, as it is also practiced in other democratic multiethnic, multilingual and multi-religious states such as BiH. At the same time, I underline it and at the same time it is both theoretically and practically and legally and materially and technically possible for the protection and insurance of the identical and equal use of Bosnian, Croatian and Serbian languages on three channels and one public BH RTV service or three public tv services in three official languages, and without that repair, the law is proposed harmful to the vital interests of the Croatian people. The adoption of the proposed amendments to the law, the opportunity to leave our present poor bh practice, equal and slightly more equal constituent peoples, at least in terms of public information, as stated in points 10 and 11 of this evaluation, has been missed, in entity terms and defined as a question of vital national interest. Such a solution to the equality of each official language would not be any newspapers or speciality in BiH compared to other multiethnic European countries. And their public media, which have special channels or public services, in national languages, or official languages, under the quotes of language communities, apprehensions in Belgium, is Flemish, Walloon, German in Switzerland, French, Italian, German or Spanish, without any difficulty, public television, or special channels in the regions of Spain, in their languages in Baska, Catalonia in Galicia. So in Europe it is perfectly normal to have public media in the official languages of their people. Europe also has them in regional languages or in minority languages, thus keeping them from possible extinction by fostering them in a civilized way as their common cultural heritage. Why is that not possible in BiH, I wonder? Isn't that necessary in BiH for the official languages of Bosnian, Croatian and Serbian, and unquestioned traditional, cultural heritage of the constitutive forms of peoples in an entirely equal manner, as is the heritage of Europe. Pod, 13. We are anxious to show our fears that on the one hand, an unequal relationship in public media with equal official languages will be an open space for even more open and fuller discrimination of Croatian language in the bh public media area and on the other hand Hrvatić without equal rights to their own language, as well as Bošnjak and Srbin in public rTV services in the state of BiH, in the future they will be condemned quietly, 48 gentlemen on a quiet but secure assimilation, which is the fate of every language, culture and traditional heritage when they are found in media isolation. By refusing, today the amendments we offered, you have brought us this position. We will not and must not agree to this, and those who advocate it, the rule of law must prevent them from doing so. Pod, 14. It is harmful to leave the vital interests of the Croatian people in BiH undefined and undefined in the text of the contested law, this too important issue of equal rights for every nation to express in the public broadcaster programme and the equal media use of its official language as the constitutional, collective equality of the constituent people. First of all, because, from the moment of the establishment of the Public TV service of the Federation of BiH and the Public TV service of BiH to today, absolute dissatisfaction has been expressed by members of the Croatian people with the overall representation of traditional heritage and Croatian language in these programmes. And, on the other hand, it is undeniable to say, that the programmes of the RS Public TV Service are a defacto, therefore exclusively in Serbian, which we do not dispute, but we ask ourselves again and again, where this is lost by this fundamental human rights of the Croatian people in BiH on the occasion of the foundation of public broadcasters at the entity and state level and in the previously imposed legislative solutions of the previous High Representative of 2002, as well as for the Hrvat in BiH, an unacceptable proposal from the Council of Ministers. Unfortunately, this practice of equal Hrvat and a little more equal to the other two peoples wants to be inauguration in the text of the contested law, which is unacceptable for us. With this media reality, no one has the right to convince the Croatian people of the true and equal legal representation in BiH's public media space despite the Constitution of BiH of the guaranteed equality of constituent peoples, nor for such claims can they offer a reasoned argument and even less force Croatian MPs in the Parliamentary Assembly to accept the legal solutions that the Croatian people in BiH place in this area of vital national interest in a completely unequal position compared to the other two constituent nations. When I used the word coercion, I thought of unencumbered advocacy, persuasion, acceptance of this law, constantly underlining that he is the reform law that we feel as such but he is so hurtful that we really cannot support him at this point. 15. Certainly, it is of particular importance and this last argument that we warn of, which is the point of the 33rd opinion of the Venice Commission on veto based on vital interest, marked by CDL-AD (2005). 004 is the original in English and published in the translation of the Office of the Council of Europe in BiH on 11 March 2005. I quote this point 33, the points of view of the Venice Commission – in the current conditions in BiH, it acts unrealisticly to seek a complete suspension of the veto on the basis of vital interest. On the other hand, the Commission considers it important and urgent to give a clear definition of vital interest in the text of the Constitution itself. The definition will need to be given by representatives of three constituent peoples, but it should not be the same as the current definition in entity constitutions that enables virtually anything to be defined as vital interest. It should not be too broad but focused on the rights of particular importance for the given peoples, primarily in areas such as, so it is said, language, education and culture. So, the Venice Commission's view that the issue will remain, no matter how redefining it, the definition of vital yneres will remain as a defined issue in the future of the BiH Constitution. 49 So, this and all of the above reasons, for the Hrvat, make it unquestionably necessary to define the equal use of both Bosnian and Croatian and Serbian languages under equal conditions on separate rTV channels or public rtv services within the public rtv system of BiH, which is why the contested bill does not guarantee us that as such it is harmful to the vital interests of the Croatian people. On behalf of the Croatian Club, Ilija Filipović, Velimir Jukić, Anto Spajić and Branko Zrno. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4591	I thank Mr Filipović. Is there, uh, is anyone answering for a word? If not, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4592	Dear colleagues, we may be a step closer to the Association and Stabilisation Agreement. However, I am convinced that, essentially, in terms of achieving political stability, satisfaction, we will not be this close to the EU, which is.... I think personally, that those who have since September, when we decided to leave this process for political dialogue, those who should have done so have not taken advantage of that period. And this is a question in which dialogue should be attended by those who should lead the strategic political dialogue. Niko of these, who are supposed to be conducting strategic political dialogue, are sitting here today in this hall and we have frameworks here. I hope that there is still hope and by contributing in some way to this possibility, I will make this instrument of objection to a statement of vital interest that, as provided for by the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, the case would be referred to the Constitutional Court. So, the Club of Delegates, therefore, objecting to a statement of destruction by the vital interests of the Croatian People's Club, calling for Article 4(3) of the Constitution of BiH and Rule 135(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations. And, of course, the written content of the objection to the declaration of destruction will be invested within a business period of 24 hours, as foreseen, of course taking account of what is stated in the statement of destruction, because we have now received that statement. And while I'm here, here is the objection signed by the delegates of the IFA, technically technically, the conditions are met, and while I'm already here at the pay phone, I would therefore pray that the Constitution provides that at the moment when a statement is made and when this objection is made by another club, that the debate is interrupted and that the chairman calls a committee of one representative from each club who should reach an agreement within 5 days. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that within 24 hours an objection should be made and that a commission of one representative from each nation should then be drawn up that should also try to solve the problem within 5 days. Therefore, since we have assumptions, it is clear that there is an objection to a declaration of obesity. Within 24 hours she will be in writing well equipped yet. So we have conjecture and I suggest that we immediately appoint one representative from each club and that the chairman, as provided for by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, schedule a meeting of that committee in these five days. It should probably be Friday, as Saturday and Sunday are taking place and thus avoid the need for a special session of the People's House to be scheduled for the next five days. We would conclude all assumptions, 50 appoint a group, appoint representatives from clubs, schedule a session to try to solve the problem, and then, with a record from that group, this case could be referred to the Constitutional Court. I think it's very practical and it wouldn't be necessary. So it is fully in line with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, and there would be no need to schedule a special session just for this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4593	I thank Mr. Genjac. I would only like to be fully in line with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, that the secretary only has an insight into whether a sufficient number from the Bosniak Club has signed the complaint. It's necessary, it says. No, no, that's the other one, that's the technical side of the story. No, no. Okay. Let's move on. Okay, okay, okay. No, no, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, Let's move on. I suggest that what has already been proposed, and so it says in the Constitution that we immediately choose, we propose a member of the Commission from every nation and here it says if they agree within 5 days that everything is okay, if they don't agree on a matter going their way and their session, we can schedule it to be here on Monday, which means beyond that deadline, which is whether or not if they agree before, everything is fine. If they're agreed, they'll go through with it. I expect suggestions, Mr. Čengić. Mr. Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4594	/not understood - not turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4595	Thank you. Mr. Radovanović. Mr. Ilija Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4596	To the heavy teams, God forbid. Well, you can't negotiate.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4597	Just a little bit, I mean to establish in the joint three-member commission they were proposed and elected, because it is the right of every nation to appoint Mr Halid Genjac, Mr Vinko Radovanović and Mr Ilija Filipović. It says here that a joint committee composed of three delegates who are, etc.... the chairman of the House of Peoples will immediately convene a joint committee. Here's what we called right away, and we didn't make a deal. We didn't make a deal or we did. No, I can make a deal. 51 [[Common discussion Filipović-Genjac]] Clearly here, the point is, just a little let your colleagues do it. The point is in the next one. All right, then let's make a deal like this. So I don't think there's any need to postpone this assembly of commissions and make arrangements here now together the three of you as you wish. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4599	So the Rules of Procedure stipulates 24 hours to make a written complaint. That's perfectly natural, because the person who objects to a statement must be the content of the statement so that it can be obvious. We have now received a statement and for these reasons we need to write this complaint and when a complaint is written, a commission can sit. Tomorrow's session is in common and we'll be writing an objection by tomorrow, so within 24 hours, we'll be writing a complaint tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4600	Okay. It's a deal. It's all arranged. I've fulfilled mine, and it's here that's already written a constitutional obligation, so you've arranged a meeting for tomorrow. Until then you will fulfill this technical meaning part, it is for me a technical part, regardless of the objections. So the objection will be written orally, although he has been declared and written, he has been declared orally. It's okay. This is what we're done with, this way, for now. We did. We did. Excuse me. Here's a little bit of my paperwork. We have reached the 13th point of the agenda of the Labour Act Ad.13. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Labour Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, first reading by the Proposer of the House of Representatives. You've received a report from the relevant commission. There was no amendment to the bill. Is there anyone here to discuss this? He's not answering. I'm calling you. I hereby conclude the debate and invite you to make a statement on the Law in the first reading. Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? Thank you. I agree that we adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina unanimously in our first reading. I suggest we do another reading at today's session. I'm making a statement on this proposal. Who's in order to go to another reading? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you. I understand that we have unanimously decided to do another reading. 52 The second reading discusses amendments. He's voting on the law. There was no amendment. Is anyone answering for a hearing? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate and calling for a vote on the law. Who's in? Who's against it? - Who's being a little cheeky? - I don't Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since there were no interventions, and there was also in the House of Representatives, the Law was adopted in the same text as in the House of Representatives and was thus formally adopted. Next item of the agenda, Add.14. The motion for a resolution against the amnesty of the Chetnik movement of Draže Mihajlović from the crimes committed during World War II, Proposer Halid Genjac, you have received the resolution of Mr Genjac's envoy. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The House may decide to consider the resolution first by the relevant committee. Who's answering for a word? Is there, Mr. Šiljegović? Mr. Šiljegović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4601	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since we adopted the Resolution on Antifascism at one of the previous meetings of the People's House, which was proposed by my colleague, Mr Tomislav Limov, not to read the Resolution on Antifascism, which contained a lot of things, and in the proposal for a resolution against the amnesty of the Chetnik movement Draže Mihaljević on the crimes committed during World War II was contained in this previous resolution, then in the second part of the recent period in the Republic of Serbia, different acts are being taken with the aim of the formal group, etc. This is about another sovereign state or community, etc. The Serbian delegates' club will support the motion for a resolution, because we believe that we are the motion for a resolution on anti-fascism, which we adopted in this house, that this section includes what concerns this part of the resolution and we will not support this resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4602	Thank you, Mr. Šiljegović. The cracks are open. We don't have any more logs. We're moving on to our rules of procedure. There's no request for a commission. 53 I conclude the debate, if I see well, there are no reports. I call, in accordance with Article 115(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples to vote on the Resolution. And I call for a vote on resolution. Who's for the resolution? Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? I find that the vote was eight against five. Most of them are, but we don't have the entity majority. We're going to the second round. Republika Srpska, who's against it? Thank you. I find that five votes were against the RS, so we don't have an entity majority, the resolution hasn't been adopted. Point 15, Ad.15. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the High Representative for BiH on the establishment of the Office of the Registers of War Crimes and the II Department for Organized Crime, Economic Crime and Corruption, the Criminal and Appealal Department of the Court of Justice of BiH as well as the Special Department for War Crimes, the Special Department for Organized Crime, Economic Crime and Corruption, the Prosecutor's Office Report.../Law to Interrupt/... President of this Commission, Mr Čengić,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4603	In short, the Commission considered yesterday the proposal for a ratification decision of the Agreement and agreed to maintain this agreement. He's a little bit odd that, in making such agreements, they sign between two countries or more countries, and here he is between the High Representative who is not that, and BiH. I will warn you that in the agenda we have the wrong text in the agenda and in the first and second versions, under point 15, the agreement between the High Representative in BiH is mentioned and there is no BiH missing, so I would ask you that if anyone objects, that we have that in mind. As far as the content itself is concerned, he is essentially talking about the role of the Office of Registers in the Court of BiH since it is a brand-new institution for the present trial and way of functioning of BiH courts. What is mentioned here later, given that this contract was signed before the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and the Court of BiH was passed, so these rules and procedures mentioned here were later prescribed by this law, the Law on the Court of BiH. So, if there are any discrepancys or maybe differences in language formulations, then it's obvious that what the law says is valid. However, I don't think there is any obstacle to accepting this agreement written by the BiH presidency on behalf of BiH last year. Thank you. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4604	I thank Mr. Čengić. The House of Representatives agreed to ratify this agreement at its session. The debate is open. Who wants to talk? There are no reports. We've got a quorum. I'm calling for a plea. Who's to give consent to ratify this agreement? Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? Thank you. I agree that with 11 votes in favour of, 1 abstention, without votes against, we have given consent to ratifying the Agreement between the High Representative for BiH on the establishment of the Office of Agreeers of the Department of War Crimes, the Department of organised crime, economic crime and corruption, the criminal appeal department of the Court of BiH, as well as the special department of war crimes, and the special department for organised crime, economic crime and corruption of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. Point 16, Ad.16. Giving consent to ratifying the Treaty on the loan of a regional road development programme, between BiH and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, you have received a report from the relevant Commission. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this contract. Is there a need for the President of the Commission? There isn't. All right, if you like. Is anyone in the mood to argue? Niko one checked in. I'm closing the debate. And I call for a statement of consent to ratify the said Treaty. Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? I agree that we unanimously agreed to ratify the Treaty on the loan of a regional road development programme, between BiH and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Point 17, Ad.17. Giving consent to ratify the note of the Agreement between the Governor of the Central Bank of Libya and the Minister for International Co-operation of BiH and the SFRY Report of the relevant commission you received. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this agreement. I'm opening a debate. Anybody want to talk? No, nobody's answering. The President of the Commission does not consider it necessary. 55 I call for a statement. Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? I agree that we unanimously agreed to ratify the Agreement, the note of the Agreement between the Governor of the Central Bank of Libya and the Minister for International Co-operation of BiH and the SFRY. Number 18, Ad.18. Giving consent to ratifying the Protocol between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the mutual replacement of real estate, land for the construction of diplomatic representations in Sarajevo and Ankara The report of the relevant commission you received. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this protocol. Who's calling for a hearing? Nobody's answering. The committee in charge? There's no need. I'm closing the debate. And I call for a statement of consent to ratify this protocol. Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? I agree that we unanimously agreed to ratify the Protocol between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the mutual replacement of real estate, land for the construction of diplomatic representations in Sarajevo and Ankara. Number 19, Ad.19. Giving consent to ratifying the Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on common locations at the border crossings of Gospodin Čengić, the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4605	I'm sorry to bother you. Just one minute. I believe that this contract is also very important and that, with this contract and ratification of these contract annexes, we are entering the stage of regulating relations on border crossing issues between BiH and the Republic of Croatia, and I am convinced that we will very soon be in a position to have such same contracts, such a same contract as the general and then the annexes for border crossings between BiH and Serbia-Montenegro. You know that part of these annexes of this contract we've been considering today, and most of it we've been considering at the 33rd session. We discussed this contract ourselves at the 33rd session. Article 2 states that annexes and contracts will define individual places of border crossings, determine whether the border crossing will be located on the territory of the Republic of Croatia or on the territory of BiH, with this agreement defining all other rights, obligations and ways of conduct of persons and personnel employed at border crossings. Therefore, behaviours relative to their vehicles that use, objects etc. And in that sense, the Commission proposes to give consent to ratifying this Treaty and the Commission 56 proposes, if you allow it no longer to appear, or not to go out for a pay phone, that all annexes of this contract, which go from point 20 to point 25, are also ratified. In this way, we would have finished this part of the job and allowed these contracts to be implemented or, building objects and the necessary infrastructure to accelerate and bring an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4606	I thank Mr. Čengić. We heard it on behalf of the relevant commission. Does anyone want to take part in the debate? Nobody's answering. I call for a plea to give consent to ratify the Treaty. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I agree that we unanimously agreed to ratify the Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on common locations at border crossing points. Point 20, Ad.20. Giving consent to ratifying Annex II of the Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on common locations at border crossings in the area of common location at the Doljani border crossing - Metkovic here you are, well. Only then, if you accept, if you don't mind, I agree to accept, to simplify. Number 21, Ad.21. Giving consent to ratification of Annex III of the Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on common locations at border crossing points in the area of common location and the Neum I Klek border crossing, Add.22. Giving consent to ratification of Annex IV of the Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on common locations at border crossing points in the area of common location at the Neum II and Zaton-Doli border crossing, Add.23. Giving consent to the ratification of Annex V of the Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on common locations at border crossing points in the area of common location at the border crossing of Velika Kladuma – Maljevac, Ad.24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Anesk VI Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on common locations at the border crossings in the area of common location at the border pelaza Izačić – Ličko Petrovo selo, Ad.25. Giving consent to the ratification of Annex I of the Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on common locations at the border crossings in the common location area and the border crossing of the Kostanica Bosnian, Serbian, Croatian, 57 Evo, the text reads, it was then written, I think it is clear that this should not be the one, it says, then it is stated. We heard, is anyone there to answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4607	Well, no, but what it is, I'm sorry, this is a very important question. [[no microphone turned on]] That place doesn't exist, we give consent.....no, it's your opinion. There's no such thing as that. I don't agree with giving that consent.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4608	Mr. Genjac,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4609	I propose just for the sake of a stenogram, so for a stenogram from this session to enter a stenogram and that's what I'm saying to this occasion, so after giving consent to ratification, that in contracts that were previously signed while this issue, the city's names agree with the existing state. So, with a legal condition to bring the city's names together.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4610	Mr. Čengić,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4611	Respecting the arguments and colleagues of Pamuk and my colleaguesGenjac I would just like to remind myself that these agreements under which we are discussing today and the agreements we previously ratified have been signed in very different times, so time periods. We had the case that from signing time to ratification it went even after 3 years, so we had cases that in the meantime legal jurisdiction had changed, that in some cases it was the legal jurisdiction of the entity and then it was transferred to the state of BiH. The rule is that the text and content of these contracts and agreements are maintained according to what was at the time of write-off in ratification and then subsequent changes can be made. And, in that sense, I suggest that we give consent to all, including this, by understanding the objections that colleagues have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4612	Here you go, Mr. Pamuk.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4613	I'm sorry. It seems to me that the rules you mention Hasane don't exist and I don't agree with the fact. There is time to calm down, to change it or to make a decision and to accept it, to speak to a place that exists and not about a place that is not there. We're making, we're doing a serious job. This place is called the Kostajnica and we're giving consent to the Kostajnica, and I don't know, something else. Thank you. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4614	Okay. We've heard of Mr. Šiljegović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4615	Just a very short one. The chairman, there were no such reactions when we signed some agreements that mentioned the BiH government, so we said it was signed at some point, so we supported the signing of the Kingdom, SHS agreements, etc. Therefore, he needs the same archaic for everything else.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4616	Mr. Brka wants to talk, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4617	I'm sorry, I won't take much time. I'd still like to vote individually for each, not to have a misunderstanding, so that one problem doesn't get the others through.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4618	Well, then, if we're gonna do this, I'd ask the club chiefs to decedify ourselves because I really appreciate what my colleague Čengić said, I think that's the only thing that's right. We've given ratification of a contract here today, and it seems to me that SFRY is a signer, so if we could do that, then we can do this.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4619	Okay, well, then we'll figure out how we're gonna do it sooner. The proposal was to vote in the package. We vote on the way, now we determine how we vote. The proposal is the one that went first, to vote in the package. Who's up for that proposal? Against? Abstained? I find that with one vote against, a large majority in 14 for, we have decided to vote these agreements on them in the package. Now I call on us to plead these agreements only to be precise, so from one to six.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4620	That's between 20 and 25 agendas.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4621	Yes, it is in the agenda, so from points 20 to 25. We vote in the package. 59 Who is to accept means to give consent to these read agreements. Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? Thank you. I agree that with 13 votes in favour of, 1 vote against, 1 abstention, we have given consent to ratify an annex from 1 to 6, agreements between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on border locations, border crossings of the countries which have therefore been read in these annexes. We got to the last point, that was fourth, Add.4. Report by the Joint Commission on efforts to reach a dispute on the same text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, Mr Halid Genjac, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4622	I just want to point out. Meanwhile, the Commission held a meeting, formally bringing everything into order. You have the report in front of you, and I suggest you read it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4623	Okay. We have received a report from the Commission. So according to what it says, the Commission reached an agreement on harmonising the text of the law. We need to adopt this committee's report. I call for a statement on the Commission's report. Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? I agree that we unanimously adopted the Commission's Report, and this is also the formal Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service to BiH institutions, and formally adopted, or adopted. With this for today, I apologize, yes, the Presidency's initiative to declare the 11.7th day of mourning in Bosnia and Herzegovina I'm opening a debate, I'm sorry. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4624	The Serbian delegates' club adopted the initiative on the agenda today before the start of the session. The club also agrees that a day of mourning be determined for all victims in BiH. We have been told that it is the day of the start of the maybe conflict because from that day on, the victims begin throughout BiH and we believe and say that it is a matter governed by the law. If that's the presidency's jurisdiction, let the presidency determine 60 accordingly. And maybe, a couple of adjustments that here in terms of a colleague of Genjci, namely, at the end of this argument, are primarily reactions that express sympathy with the victims and the desire to do whatever it takes to never repeat a silver crime again. We are making additions, i.e. repairs like all other crimes in BiH. We, here, anticipated these revisions of the text of the initiative and here we are closer to setting a day by law in some future period. And in the variant of the conclusion, here I will let the Proposer say, if it applies itself, there were such issues in the order of the Club of Serbian Delegates, if this refers to the House of Peoples giving the initiative to the BiH presidency, to declare on 11 July 2005 a day of mourning in BiH. I think in that variant we could support such a conclusion, with these repairs above the text of the initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4625	I thank Mr. Šiljegović. Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4626	This intervention of reason, although the argument remains in the session itself and it will only follow the proposal of the conclusion, I accept that this, but a little linguistically perhaps would be nicer if no more silver crime, no more crime, no more crime, no more crime. So, like no other but no other crime. That's one thing. So this intervention is acceptable for both torlamal principles and quite clear reasons, general, general day, determining some day for some period, of course, it's the subject of the law. And, if it were to go on the other day that is determined generally for some longer period, for many years, it must be by law... This is therefore an initiative in the context of what is now ahead of us and what is 10 years and I also accept that the conclusion is also – the House of Peoples tells the BiH Presidency to declare the day of mourning in BiH on 11 July 2005. I accept, therefore, and, of course, I respect the accent of my colleague Pajić's discussion. Fully, with the potty pie and fully respecting every tragedy, every victim and every crime, this does not exclude absolutely that some other leads and some other days are not the day of mourning. And I suggest that this conclusion be made and adopted and directed to the Presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4627	Thank you. Mr. Pajić. Mr. Šiljegović. Mr. Pajić, you're the first one to raise your hand.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4628	kolegica Ružo, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I would like once again to clarify my first position, when this resolution was proposed, why I voted against including this point in the agenda. I already said why. But I want a few more notes to explain. There have been many crimes in the '92 '95 period. If crime issues are already being opened, I really need to say this. Long before 11 July, mass crimes took place. Not 61 in that size as Srebrenica, absolutely. It is quite certain and there is no dispute that a serious mass crime has been committed, the biggest crime in the period from '92 to '95. A year. But there's one thing, I'm now, you probably know why I'm saying it, what I'm saying. There have been individual events, but there have been many other more mass crimes. '93. Year, early '92. The year of March, Sijekovac, then, I must really mention the 15th of May and the death of soldiers and civilians in the Tuzlan column. It's a very serious mass crime where over 250 men were brutally killed by an ambush. Amongst other civilians, soldiers and everything else. It is hypocritical that in Tuzla on that day, on that day of a terrible crime, barbecues are being made in that place on the Brčan road and is being declared that day, on the day of some victory. I don't know which victory if more than 250 people were killed that day, where families all disappeared, four, five, three, two from one family. And no one condemns that act, that crime, even means those days when crimes are committed proclaiming some day of victory and having a party in that same place where that crime was committed. Then, not to mention the other crimes of Carrot City, etc. Therefore, for this very reason, I really cannot accept such a resolution that only one date is declared a day of mourning and all other dates are ignored as insignificant and negligible dates in which such mass crimes have been committed. It's really hard for me to talk about it, because I'm from that category is a crime against my son, but I'm not going to talk about it this time.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4629	Thank you, Mr. Pajić. Mr. Šiljegović wanted to talk. Mr. Šiljegović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4630	Well, I'll be brief. Here, it seems to me that my colleague Genjac has accepted that in the first sentence's explanation, numerous crimes have been committed throughout BiH's territory during the past war. I put it the same way, only in the Serbian version, to never repeat a silver crime like all other crimes in BiH, that's one thing. And, secondly, it is, like all other crimes, not like any other crime. And we are only adopting a conclusion today, the conclusion in which the House of Peoples is being referred to the BiH presidency's initiative to determine 11 July 2005 and declare the day of mourning in BiH, and we have found that this is a substance processed by law, etc. And that we, here we will consider in another period, that the day of the war will be the day that the victims start all over BiH, but adhoc for this year, in 2005, we accept that the initiative is heading towards the Presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-0.u4631	That's right. I think it was just here, by mistake someone said another expression. So this is about the conclusion that we are going to refer the initiative to the Presidency to declare that day, etc. Someone here mentioned, but by mistake, there was neither intention nor ambition to be anything else. Okay. We heard everything, we heard this repair, this text. jemo we agree? We did. 62 No more reported. I call for a statement on an initiative to declare BiH's 11.7th day of mourning, so it will go to the presidency. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you. I agree that with 14 votes to, 1 vote against, 1 abstention, 13 votes to, 1 abstention, 1 against, we adopted a decision to refer the initiative to declare 11.7.2005, on the day of mourning in BiH. The initiative goes to the BiH presidency. Here, this is what we've exhausted for today's scheduled agenda. I thank all my colleagues for this, patient work and efficient work. End of session at 6:10 p.m.
