ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19489	I am opening the 64th House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the MPs at the session were invited as always, chaired by members of the BiH presidency, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the OHR representative, the OSC representative, the EU representative, the Special Representative of the Council of Europe and the Head of Mission in BiH, representatives of the BiH Embassy who expressed interest in monitoring this session, the UN mission representative BiH, representatives of NGOs. I welcome all present and guest sessions as well as representatives of public information funds. According to the service report, I agree that the session is attended by 30 MPs, 22 from the Federation, 8 from Republika Srpska. So, the session has a quorum for full-time work and decision-making. I would also like to inform you that Dr. Abdulah Nakaš, professor of Dr. Petar Kunići, Mr. Ambassador, Mirko Blagojević, is justly absent from the session. You are ladies and gentlemen, of course we expect that colleagues who have not announced their absence or justified their absence will join this session during the session. So you ladies and gentlemen received a draft agenda in the invitation to the session. The College and the Enlarged College agreed that the draft agenda, to include one item, should complement the agenda with one point, is the appointment of a member of the BiH Election Commission, on the proposal of the Adhoc Commission for Elections and Appoints. It is then point 12 of the draft agenda, so that point 12 of the draft agenda is complemented by the inclusion of ratification of the Treaty on a comprehensive ban on nuclear testing. Since you have received the consolidated text of the agenda, we have also agreed on an extended college, that the 5th item of the agenda should be the last item of the agenda, on the proposal of the Council of Ministers of President Adnan Terzić, these are these, amendments to the BiH Constitution. Since he is on the official path and I have a promise that by the end of the agenda, he will be as the chairman of the Council of Ministers in an opportunity to defend the amendment before the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I'm asking you to have an understanding for these supplements. I also ask you today to pay attention to these points of the agenda, that I prayed yesterday at the enlarged College, the presidents of the political parties' clubs to try today if 2 it is possible that the agenda does not spread, although I cannot, of course, prohibit MPs from having such proposals. I am therefore opening a debate on the proposed or proposed agenda. Mrs Dušanka Majkić answered her word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19490	I'd really appreciate what you said about not being tied to a deadline coming ahead of us. I submitted a motion for a resolution, since a member of the Presidency, Mr Ivo Miro Jović, travels to the UN session to be held from 14th to 16.9th of this year, in the UN building to be attended by heads of 170 governments, representing the world's largest gathering of leaders in history, with the aim of making leaders committed to taking new concrete actions aimed at eradicating poverty. I have also provided you with the reasons why I have submitted this resolution and the motion for a resolution itself. I think that the Parliamentary House should bring one of these to this session today, adopt such a resolution because it can have big echoes on the country itself and also on the requirements of our UN since it is also about the write-off of debts to poor countries, that it is about increasing, double-up in helping developing countries and that it would be good that BiH is the signatories of such a single resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19491	I thank my colleague, Majkić. Is there anyone else to answer for? There isn't. I hereby conclude the debate between the ladies and gentlemen on the agenda and now I invite you to come forward with the proposal from my colleague Majkić. So we must first declare whether we accept
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19492	We need to be clear about whether the House will decide to refer the resolution to the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19493	Yeah. So, first we declare whether you are in favour of this resolution being addressed to the competent commission, of course the course course course of the plea will depend on the further fate of the resolution. If it gets that support, it goes to the competent commission, if not, becomes an automatic item of the agenda. That's why I'm warning you to keep that in mind when you say it. So, I call for a statement, who is it to refer the proposed resolution to the committee of directors of Dušanka Majkić? Vote now. So, the total vote, the vote voted, no, just a little bit, I don't have the result of the vote. The vote was 12. So I realize that this resolution is automatically included in the agenda. 3 I suggest that it be the last item of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, I realize that I'm asking her, okay, but since she is, would that change, would that change the score? Are you asking for a re-election? Are you looking for a repeat vote? We ask that the vote be repeated. Vote now. So, please, colleague Ljilja Milićević asked for the previous vote to be repeated. So, I'm asking you who's in favour of Proposing a resolution by Dušanka Majkić to be forwarded to the committee of directors? Please vote now. I'm asking you a little patience. So 12.8 versus, 4 abstentions. I find ladies and gentlemen, therefore the same is the result of the vote, that this one, please, ladies and gentlemen. Please prepare the charts. Who is it for the competent resolution of Dušanka Majkić to be forwarded to the competent commission? Who's in? Put the charts down, who's in? Please, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Abstained? Thank you. So I'm saying it was 14.16 against, 3 abstentions. So, the same situation. This is the final item of the agenda of today's session. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore realize that he was adopted for today's session on the next agenda, 1 / 1 Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 2. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Customs Infringements of BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 3. Commission report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliament of the Council of Ministers Zlatko Lagumdžija on the examination of the information on the results of the application of the Law on Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of BiH, 4. Proposal for a law on road safety, second reading, 5. Proposal for a Law on the BiH Emigration Matika, first reading, 6. Proposal for a law on tobacco BiH, with the report Constitutional Legal Commission, Proposer of the Law of MPs Zlatko Lagumdžija, Jozo Križanović and Selim Bešlagić, 4 7. Proposal for a Framework Law on Higher Education with the Constitutional and Legal Commission Report, Proposer of Law Member Momčilo Novaković, 8. SDP BiH MPs' initiative to form a committee, a committee for the adoption of the text of the BiH State Anthem, with the Constitutional and Legal Commission Report, 9. Report on the work of the Administrative Commission of the House of Representatives for the period 1.1 to 30.6. 2005, 10. Interpreting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives at the request of the Constitutional and Legal Commission of the House of Representatives, 11. Giving consent to ratification under (a) Framework Agreement between the European Community and BiH on the general principles of BiH's participation in community programmes, (b) Treaty on a comprehensive nuclear test ban, 12. Appointment of Members of the Election Commission of BiH, 13. Amendment I to the Constitution of BiH and 14. The motion for a resolution is a global call for action against poverty. Moving to the first item of the agenda is that, Ad.1. Parliamental questions and answers Dama and gentlemen, the questions to this session were raised by MPs Muhamed Moranjkić, and the question asked at the 50th session, Ivo Miro Jović, the question asked at the 53rd session, Mladen Potočnik the question asked at the 55th session, the issue asked at the 55th session, with the answer to this question from the High Court Prosecutor's Council, you also received an answer to several questions from delegates from the House of People, then Dušanka Majkić, Ivo Lozančić asked at the 57th session, Sead Palavrić, on a question raised at the 62nd session and Dušanka Majkić asked at the 63rd session. Do any of the MPs who have received answers comment on the answers they have received? Mr. Mladen Potočnik, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19494	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I then asked the question of events that were at Maniachi and I think that there is still one place, and bileći and that answer is actually in some way the chronology of the events that took place, and the sanctions that were taken are very mild and inconsistencies, the event that took place. So, the answer is correct, but I think Parliament must demand stricter sanctions for the prisoners of such events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19495	I thank my fellow Potočnik. Who's still picking up the word to comment? There's no one here. 5 Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you, since today is General Šuka's solemn send-off, we have agreed not to interrupt the session on behalf of Parliament will be attended by Šefik Džaferović, as a member of the Security and Defence Commission. We're going back to work. Who wants to ask a new question? Mr. Belkić, then Moranjkić, then Živković, then Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19496	Thank you very much. I have one question and one initiative. So the question is for the Council of Ministers and it says: Why has it not been established so far and started with the work of the Insurance Agency? So, the argument simply exists, the legal basis and obligation of the Insurance Agency Act was passed in the first half of 2004. It should be noted, I think it is very important that the international community has started on three occasions
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19497	Please be patient and quiet, I'm sorry, Beriza.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19498	the reform of the area without results or better river results are completely unknown. Meanwhile, foreign insurance companies practically illegally over thousands of their representatives are running the BiH market and making money from BiH. That's the question. The initiative is aimed at the Council of Ministers, to urgently carry out the inventory, under allegations, and to look into ratification procedures and procedures in relation to international agreements, international conventions. Two, to determine the impasses and those impasses remove and speed up procedures. Under three, to determine responsibility for unwarranted impasses in procedures. For example, the Anti-Corruption Convention, which we are certainly all informed here and the Pod Four, to submit this information to this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19499	Thank you. Dr. Živković, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19500	Here, very briefly. Namely, my question has been asked to the Council of Ministers. It refers to the BiH Veterinary Office. We received a letter from certain MPs, that the Office had passed sublegal acts, i.e. regulations without consulting the entity's agriculture ministries. 6 We are also getting a letter from them informing us that these same sublegal acts that were passed past them, and besides the legal rules that this assembly has adopted here, which is the Law on Veterinary of BiH, "the Official Messenger 3402" that will not implement them. So we have one big problem. We also have one bad practice that Parliament in BiH is passing a law that certain powers are transferred to BiH level and that then those institutions that we have established in this parliament are acting as if they cannot and should not implement this law and that entity ministries are no longer necessary. I think it's one bad practice, we give one bad message, a message in which it means nothing should be transmitted to BiH level, because when you do, then after that, the ministry no longer needs an entity and canton. My question concerns, is it a violation of the law of adoption, in this way of sublegal act, and if it is who should be responsible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19501	Thank you. Word has a colleague, Moranjkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19502	Thank you very much. I have two questions. First, for years old foreign currency has been saving in BiH, knocking on various doors, self-organizing and praying to this country to help them, and it is also mandatory under the Constitution to do so, but unfortunately it does not work, to return the money that one of them has robbed. I note, it's about a $3.5 billion circus and they say they know who did it and that some of the official politicians from the top of the country are involved in this robbery. I ask the Council of Ministers, is any of the official authorities of this country dealing with this problem, and what are their findings, or if they have been questioned, about the right state of the above issues and given something to address this problem, and if so, and what citizens who have been robbed can expect and when will this problem be solved? The second question, I ask the Council of Ministers and it is not far from the College, why the UN Convention of 9 and 10 December 2003 against Corruption is not signed by our country, or why this corruption is not familiar with this House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. On 9 December 2005, will be the second anniversary of this convention, until the deadline is left and it will be closed on that day, for further lists (?If BiH were the only one in the region to remain a country that did not sign this convention. I hereby launch an initiative in this home to put it on the agenda within a month and sign it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19503	I would like to thank my colleague, Moranjkić. I just need to inform you so you don't ask that question and other colleagues. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has launched an initiative to the Council of Ministers to appoint a responsible 7 person to sign the declaration on behalf of the UN-based state of BiH in New York to be ratified by the Parliamentary Assembly. So, what the College, which Parliament's jurisdiction could only do, we did, and that initiative went towards the Council of Ministers. We expect that the Council of Ministers will consciously do so in time so that BiH will not remain the only country outside the convention even though we as a country and as Parliament participated in the founding assembly held two years ago. Thank you. The word was asked by a colleague, Lozančić, to ask a parliamentary question, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19504	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, my question is about the last and earlier pardons by the President of the Federation, we could have read this before in the media and now. So I'd like to get an answer from the authorities to the question that has all been pardoned by the current president of the Federation in a time period since the Federation has led to today, the names and last names that have been prosecuted and in what length have they endured the crimes? Also, around election commissions, if I may gain insight into the Federation president's property records?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19505	Thank you. Dr. Sead Avdić picked up the phone, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19506	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, only two questions short. Does the Council of Ministers think it works and does it even work to create state-owned employment passions in BiH? When will this document enter the procedure of the BiH Parliament? That's one thing. And second, will the Council of Ministers offer economic policy measures for 2006, together with the draft budget for 2006 as well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19507	Thank you. Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19508	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is very brief. Namely, in your notice who received all the answer to the asked question, you left out my name and here I am, notifying this home that for the first time in this term I have received an answer to the question asked. But I wanted to check this out, so if the other colleagues and colleagues got that answer, because he's going to have significance in the debate at the agenda point, I mean 9 or 10 when it comes to the text of the anthem. So, uh, I don't know if the MPs got that answer, so we could be here, in the same position? Thank you. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19509	Thank you. I'm sorry, I have a note, so I got a note from the service who got an answer to the MP's questions. The team better be getting an answer from you, too, Mr. Križanović. I think all my colleagues got that answer and they're going to pay attention to the point they're going to be talking about, that's the text of the anthem, and that seems to me to be the 7th point of today's session. Maybe they got it, so you know that MP questions are coming up and I sometimes say I didn't, but if I were going through the archives, I'd find you know, so I'm calling the MPs to take another look if they can't get it from the service, it's not a problem. I'm asking the service to share those who didn't get that answer. Mrs Ljilja Milićević answered the words.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19510	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, my questions will actually refer to the meaning of the prepared commitment and what we have committed to when we were admitted to the Council of Europe and what the accent is on. As members of the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Europe, we have so far received at least 10 times a letter asking us to press the Council of Ministers and to appoint a member of BiH from here into a permanent body that exists and that is the Committee for the Prevention of Tortrum, Inhumane Behavior. This is about people who are professional, all member states have members and these people are then delegated, visiting different places in Europe where it is estimated whether, they were both in Zenica and in prisons, meaning whether human rights have been violated, whether there has been maltreatment of inhumane behaviour etc. So far, at least I say 10 times we got a memo. We have sent this letter to the Council of Ministers several times, informed the Council of Europe, and I do not understand why the Council of Ministers does not implement the proposal. There should be a few people to choose from means one man. Second, also important, perhaps more important issue, the issue of delegation, i.e. the BiH agent's election in the Human Rights Court. We are witnessing that a lot of lawsuits, not as much as they say, but a lot of lawsuits against BiH have arrived in Strasbourg. They'll be considered. We don't have an agent, a function of an agent. At the last session, we've been informed, our attorney-in-law is leaving here, and that hand to heart by people's comments, it's doing well for that person. The interpretations that came from BiH, why an agent, the type that are small salaries, cannot survive in Strasbourg with this salary, are ironically pro-Commentary. What's this about? No country accepts an agent and he's not a person living in Strasbourg. An agent whom countries, meaning members of the Council of Europe who have judges there and are being prosecuted, has a lot of countries that have a practice to appoint a lawyer or a good lawyer for part-time. He's going there as needed. His accommodations and diaries fall on the burden of the Council of Europe, as he is the Court of Human Rights. So we should call a final contest, choose a man who will go there as needed and represent BiH. 9 So I'm asking these two questions. A matter of agents and a question of our member in the Committee for the Prevention of Combating Tortrum and Inhumane Behavior.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19511	Thank you. Word requested by colleague Mirsad Ćeman, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19512	Thank you very much. I'm just trying to write this exact question, but here's how I'm going to say it orally, and then in writing, I'm going to turn it in. The question is addressed to the Council of Ministers and it concerns jurisdiction and certainly at this point and entities, and even lower levels, but it is therefore addressed to the Council of Ministers, so let them see this one and how to discuss this topic. For years, many areas in BiH, especially in spring and autumn, have been exposed to floods with huge material and sometimes human casualties. Slow financial assistance to mitigate the consequences is neither sufficient nor long-term solution to the problem. The question, therefore, is whether it is possible on a long-term basis to be in charge of relevant international funds and systematic removal of causes, water treatment, construction of adhesion and other facilities, to eliminate flood threats and damages caused by this base. In fact, we've recently had information about external debt, we've seen that sometimes this country takes loans, of course very often for justified projects, but sometimes maybe those that aren't as good a priority as this would be. This is why this issue is also an initiative that the competent state authorities of course both entity and other really consider the possibility when we are already in charge of things abroad, to be in charge of these purposes once and for the coming years, and to really remove problems caused by floods in a good way. Here, we've seen what's happening around the world these days, and it's obvious that this issue needs to be addressed in a good way in the long term. That's it, thank you. Of course, I'm looking for a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19513	Thank you. Is there anyone else to answer for? Mr Miloš Jovanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19514	Well, I'd like to ask you first, Mr. Chairman, is this technique working?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19515	I think it's working. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19516	Well, it doesn't work, it doesn't matter now, but I did, so I answered, I don't know if it's written. It's not just the case with me, it's here, so we've had to vote so far so we've voted cards and we really need to see,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19517	I'm sorry I don't, but I don't have you on tech anyway.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19518	Here, I signed up first, and that's why I'm asking. And I waited, I see that those colleagues who applied later, means that this one, they're probably raising their hand now. I don't think this technique works. You need to see whoever did this, fix it, or get the money back, I think. And I'll ask you a question. But I'd really say this, that means if it doesn't work, that we know it doesn't work and that we vote as we vote so far. My question is the Directorate for indirect taxation. In fact, we seem to be the last official messenger we have received, received a rule on the application of the Tax Act to an additional value, and it seems to me that this law is not in accordance with, or is not in line with, the Tax Act on Additional Value. And if it's applied as predicted, I don't think it's going to be possible to use it and there's going to be big problems. And that's why I'm going to ask you a specific question. Therefore, whether Articles 8 or 8 of Article 1 and Article 135 paragraph 2, 3,4,5 of the Rules on the application of the Tax Act to additional value are contrary to Article 4(3) of point 4 of Article 4. The tax code on extra value? If so, then it should be harmonised by 1.1.2006 because it really does mean then the Law will not be able to apply.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19519	Thank you. Is there anyone else to answer for? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen, you won't mind me saying this because there's no colleague to replace me. I also want to ask one question to the Council of Ministers. Will the Commission's Decision on the Taxation Board No 01-16-3294- 30/05 on the selection of companies for the printing of tax stamps? In public, there is information that the country's choice of worse bidder has damaged by a million KM and also the Serbian company Glass, which made the most favourable offer, damaged by a million marks. I ask the Council of Ministers, therefore, to review this decision and whether the conditions of the tender were respected and whether the most favourable bidder was chosen and if not, why did the choice fall on that bidder who was more expensive for a million KM. We do not have any further requests to ask parliamentary questions. 11 Transitions to the second item of the agenda, that is Ad2. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on Customs Infringements of BiH by an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the Proposed Law on Customs Violations of the Council of Ministers delivered on 28 July this year. It was passed to you on July 29th. It is a request for an emergency procedure under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate on the motion. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Moranjkić, please. I'm just asking you to make a deal, please, all MPs, so let's just accept announcements through technique. We've worked together so far. Someone gets mad, so I say, "Let's hear it." So, all they announce is through technique and don't get human, everybody gets the word, nobody takes anybody's discussion. So, I'm asking you just a little patience, so everyone's going to talk about who's applying for the discussion. Comrade Moranjkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19520	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of my fellow Members, reading this law has brought two things into my eyes that, if we accept the procedure under Article 105, no one can simply intervene in terms of any change or even ask questions to clarify certain matters. So I suggest, if there's room for this to go according to Article 104, an emergency procedure is the same, so we can intervene on some things because I see some things here that are really beyond logic.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19521	Thank you, but I just need to explain the business procedure. If, therefore, we vote on the procedure of member 105 if not accepted, it goes into regular procedure. So we cannot determine the procedure at the request of the Council of Ministers. So now we're only discussing Article 105's procedure. Word has a colleague Momčilo Novaković. Have Mr. Filip Andrić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19522	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, are two reasons why the SDS Club will not support this law going according to emergency procedures. The first is, certain remarks on the very text of the law which unfortunately in this procedure we could not influence. And in particular, Article 28 of the law, which says that on the day of entry into force of this law, the law ceases to apply, and now it is stated which laws, interdepartmental and law treated by the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska. Since we can't put aside laws that have been passed at entity levels, we can ask entities to put them out of force for a certain period, we won't support this procedure. 12 The second reason is otherwise, repeatedly highlighted reason, that the emergency procedure, especially when it comes to laws that are of this nature, i.e. laws that are not simple although seemingly this may seem to be, in some ways disabling our order here and that is another reason why the club will not support the emergency procedure, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19523	I thank my colleague Novaković. Mr. Filip Andrić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19524	I thank Mr. President, fellow MPs, I will speak a little bit shorter than I thought, because Mr. Novaković just said what I was about to say. So I'm just going to argue that as far as this request is concerned, for the procedure in Article 105, I don't think there are any conditions for this law to be considered in this article because it's neither too hasty nor so simple a law. Sometimes we get the impression that the Council of Ministers simply asks us for this procedure when he wants it to be the only reason, when he wants us not to act on any amendments to any article of this law, which I don't think is right, and therefore we won't support this procedure, but let him go into normal and, if possible, I can change it so that he goes along with Article 104 to have an accelerated procedure, he wouldn't lose much time and we would have a normal procedure of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19525	Thank you. Next came Mr. Beriz Belkić. I'd only beg through technique to apply, Dr. Lagumdžija, but I've seen it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19526	Of course I respect all the reasons that have been presented so far, especially when it comes to the inability to intervene on certain things that people think are very important, to be corrected etc. However, there is another side of the medal. If you have looked at the explanation, what has led the promoter to seek procedure under Article 105 is also a very serious matter. So we have one legal void, etc. I'm the one who most called to say so under quotes, who suggested that he comment on what's being said here, members are mentioned, possibly to explain something to us, etc. And to explain what Mr. Novaković was talking about. So, to give the proposer the possibility if he does, of course, if he is not there then the Party for BiH will absolutely not support the request of one who does not consider it necessary to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, It's just that here we have a very serious legal void and a very serious situation, respecting all of this that's been said before Yemen. So, I am asking Parliament to keep in mind this other side of the dimension, because we have already lost a month since the day this law came to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19527	Thank you. Dr. Lagumdžija called for his word, please. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19528	I would just like to express my agreement with the predecessors in different parts of what they were saying but I would also like to highlight something similar to what my colleague Belkić was saying. In fact, this is really a continuation of what we have for a long time, one completely irresponsible behaviour of the Council of Ministers and the competent ministries when it comes to this, least said. And I'm not going to talk about the indirect tax administration because they've set themselves up as some partner to us who are above us and objectively they should be under a lot of, a lot that's past us. So, what's this about? Why am I saying this, Mr. Chairman? Because in December of last year, an appropriate law was adopted which meant for a whole series of activities to be launched. So we can't be brought in today at this session in principle, by Article 105, because we know that it's a delicate member of 105. Article 105 speaks of extremely simple laws and it does not belong to that category, regardless of why such penalties(?) they are not a simple category or laws, which involve special haste. For that special haste, this haste has already existed for nine months. We've been in a hurry for nine months for this. In addition, I would particularly like to draw your attention, Mr. Chairman, to ask you to address the Council of Ministers for the reference of this law, so that these things do not happen, that they may be given a kind of reproof, if I may say so. Namely, a session held in 7.7 where they adopted this, and then it took them three weeks to send this through a hasty procedure and we had two sessions of Parliament in the meantime. Of the 7.7, we had two sessions of Parliament, where they convinced us of what kind of even ephemerals (?). And three weeks later, they waited for the law to be sent to us by Article 105. I mean, this really even loses any sports character that my doctor would say, here's the closest thing to me right now is whether.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19529	I thank Dr. Lagumdžija. Mr. Križanović answered for the word. But please, my colleague Kumalić, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, wanted to, so I'm giving him a head start.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19530	I'm sorry that maybe, I probably won't settle for my argument, so, uh, these questions that were just at the beginning. However, I would point to the following. You know how radical reforms in the fiscal system have been made in BiH for the last two years, that the Law on the indirect taxation system was passed at the end of 2003 and that it covers indirect taxes. We know that there's value added tax, excise duties, customs and shipping. Six laws have been passed so far, this is the seventh. There are two other laws in the procedure, and this is the Law on forced collection and the Law on indirect taxation. We also know that since 1.1. In 2006, this Regulation should apply to the application of the Value Added Tax Act. In addition to these practically 10 laws made by the indirect taxation administration, more than 20 regulations and various decisions have been made that should also be regulated, that the indirect taxation system works effectively. 14 This law on customs violations of BiH is necessary and he would practically, I would ask if it can be passed by an emergency procedure, that Malta does not apply to the other two laws, I do not know why they are not on the agenda today, and I thought to explain this law. We know that we have, that the existing legal procedure inadequately regulates this problem, that customs offences are common, that they are not adequate to apply adequate sanctions, then safeguard measures, etc. which is everything provided for in this law. I repeat once again that there are problems, there are gaps, and I will personally advocate that future representatives of the Directorate for indirect taxation, or their assistant director for legal matters, for the making of these acts, to be available in the future, when such really difficult questions are raised, to which I cannot answer. However, it should be borne in mind that the indirect taxation system must be rounded up as soon as possible with the rules in order to enable it to function in an efficient and rational manner. That's all I've got.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19531	Thank you. The word was asked for by Mr. Križanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19532	I'm told I speak silently, and you, Mr. Chairman, look even quieter.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19533	Something's wrong with the technique.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19534	I was actually thinking of giving up this debate after discussing these colleagues, which, by the way, I support. However, I also expected the promoter to make a little more clarification. Namely, the main problem of the reasoning will arise in the fact that there is a legal gap that there is no competent authority to solve the infringements at certain stages. However, what is significant for this home is that there is no explanation. So, so far, there have been laws on violations, customs violations that have been carried out in entities, in entity bodies. To me, the fundamental question is whether there has been a tightening of this criminal policy, that is, infraction policy here. Here, as an argumentable something significant, states that consultations were conducted in the process of drafting the law in the OHR, which I know, etc. We have no argument as to whether or not we have improved this law in relation to the current situation that has so far been in force in the entity legislation and I don't know what we're getting here. Therefore, since there is no such one for me as a relevant explanation, respecting all that my colleagues have said, this is not about the simple law. So I don't think we'll be able to support this article 105. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19535	Thank you. The word was sought by counterpart Ibrahim Džedović, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19536	Dear President, fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I also wanted for a few moments to draw attention with the immediate statement that I cannot support this law for the following reasons. First of all, it's like it's been written fast within an hour, and I'm proving it by detailed analysis of only Articles 3 and 4. Even in one member there are two entirely mutually exclusive claims. Whether he needs a permit or not, so he leaves the freedom of interpretation to someone later on in one way or another. And there's still such claims. The second thing that is also important and that amortises essentially law-making and law-making, is leaving freedom in determining punishment. It's moving up to 60 times the range. This is what you have in Article 9, 40 times Article 8. etc. If we give it to someone to tell, could it be this much or that much? Based on what? The value of the goods must be the one that times a coefficient will be a element based on which it can be determined. Otherwise we'll have to say again, it's a court practice, court practice is the coefficient of that and all the efforts that are made in this country, it's amortizing again, and it lets them do whatever they want. For that reason, I think this is unacceptable and, especially, this wasn't even on the board. I think before that, he should have discussed this with the committee in charge to say what he was thinking, so we have the board's opinion here that we could talk about it. And completely this attitude is, I support, there's someone waiting, then he's waiting for something to do quickly and he says, you have to end it now and now. And we're in front of some ultimatums all the time. For that reason, I can't support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19537	Thank you. The word is Mr Miloš Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19538	What I was about to say, Mr. Džedović said a lot, and I won't say it again. So, I would just add another reason why I think this law should not be passed by emergency procedure, which is that there is no value of goods that can be transferred without customs violation. Here's why, so now someone's been given the opportunity again, to tell the customs officer there, you can carry a bunch of beers or 10, and you can't carry any. So, again, it's given the possibility that a customs officer can recalibrate and charge someone and not someone. It is therefore necessary to determine the value of the goods which can be transferred without a customs offence.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19539	Thank you. I don't have any more applications for discussion. Is there anyone else to answer? Dr. Lagumdžija, I'm on display right now. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19540	I'd ask you indeed, I've formulated one conclusion, so I'd like to make a statement about him. So, not only do we not accept but to instruct the Council of Ministers that the law returns to the Council of Ministers because of the inappropriate conduct of the process of drafting and adopting laws and is required to speed up the activity, i.e. the adoption of this law by means of all business hastening procedures.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19541	Dr. Lagumdžija, I beg you when we enter into this procedure, that you read the conclusion, so we can vote on it. I don't mind, because I don't have it in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19542	I mean, it's clear because I mean, you know what, Mr. Špirić,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19543	It's all right, I understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19544	I mean here to get law by article 105 is the main argument that Čarls and Tereza participated in consultations, Mother Tereza, not Admiral Nolson and Mother Tereza, so I think this is unserious.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19545	Thank you. I will only ask you to read the conclusion after this statement on the Council of Ministers' proposal. So the MP has the right to suggest a conclusion, we will plead, how anyone will vote on the conclusion is his business. Mr. Novaković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19546	I just want to comment on the conclusion, because they'll probably go to the vote. In fact, it seems to me that I have heard the conclusion that the Council of Ministers is asked or expected to use all the business opportunities of this one, as urgently as possible to propose the law in the procedure. What I'm saying is that the Council of Ministers has used one of the business possibilities and it's an emergency procedure that hasn't passed. So, I don't think I see this conclusion as to what the difference is unless, of course, this conclusion goes through, if it goes through, that's another question. I don't see any reason to conclude. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19547	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Someone sees, someone doesn't see. The statement of conclusion will tell what he thinks of the conclusion but we'll ask Dr Lagumdžija to read it again before we make a statement. I see the difference, unfortunately others don't see it. 17 Please, therefore there is no, we conclude the debate. Let's make a statement about the Council of Ministers' proposal. So, I ask who is in favour of accepting the Council of Ministers' initiative to vote under Article 105 on a draft law on customs violations of BiH? Please vote now. So, who's in favor of accepting Article 105's procedure on this bill. Vote now. So for six against 19, seven abstentions. I find that the procedure of Article 105 has not been accepted. And I'm asking Dr. Lagumdžija to read his conclusion one more time, to make a statement about the conclusion because there were no more conclusions. Please listen carefully to the conclusion that we may be able to make a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19548	The law returns to the Council of Ministers because of the inappropriate conduct of the process of drafting and adopting laws and is required to speed up activities in the adoption of this law by using a shortened procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19549	Please,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19550	So, Mr. Novaković and Zorić, I'd like to explain to you what I want. Since today we have rejected a member of 105, knowing the people of the Council of Ministers, they will point to Parliament who would be all right if we hadn't accepted it. I'm just asking that we show our willingness to work on a short procedure by going through committees and everything without them speeding this up. So we're not against the law. We're against this.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19551	Thank you. kolega Novaković, a little more clarification, I guess, so let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19552	I apologize, but this proposal is practically no longer possible for him because by voting against procedure 105, we have pleaded for a regular procedure. So we do not have the ability to shorten more, nor the Council of Ministers, because we are now considering this law in a regular procedure. It's business.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19553	Thank you, fellow Zorić. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19554	I was also the proposer of this, one law much shorter than this one ten times, by procedure 105th article. My colleagues asked me to pick up 104, too. I accepted that. The promoter did not accept that he was going on short notice, and we here are powerless to draw any conclusions aako we will respect the Rules of Procedure. It's me, so much for my intervention with my colleague Lagumdžija. He's going into regular procedure. We could have ended it, just before I applied for the debate, we could have ended it in the 7th month that the Council of Ministers sent the 8.7 bill to us, and we could have shortened the procedure and we had two sessions in the 7th month, or at least today this one, according to Article 104, would have all been over.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19555	Thank you. We have made an exact statement about the procedure and therefore I ask my colleague Lagumdžija if it is possible in conclusion to delete what is related to the procedure, because this law goes into regular procedure. I agree that it is unserious to go out to Parliament like this. If, therefore, it is possible to rephrase the conclusion that it does not apply to the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19556	I understand that we put this in a regular procedure. I just want to make a conclusion that we're going to show our good faith that we're ready to work on a shortened procedure, they can do it if they withdraw the law and direct it back to us, but now by Article 104. So, in other words, no, but since, you see where they are before the vote, there they are, filling the first two lines. I mean, you're watching for nothing, because you're sticking your neck out, nothing's gonna help you see them. So I just want us to have an active relationship, that we're ready to work faster. Nothing else. But otherwise, no problem at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19557	Thank you. I'm asking Dr. Lagumdžija not to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19558	Nothing.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19559	Okay. Thank you, we have finished, please, the debate and the conclusion does not insist that the vote be voted on. We voted, this law goes into regular procedure. We call on the Council of Ministers to monitor the procedure on a regular basis and answer the questions of the MPs in order to reach the law in the ordinary procedure. Thank you very much. Transitions to the third item of the agenda. You won't be angry with me because we're done. He's giving up his colleague Zlatko vote on the conclusion. Thank you very much. I won't take a word from anyone but loses the meaning of further discussion. Thank you very much. Moving to the third item of the agenda, that's 19 Ad.3. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the information on the results of the application of the BiH Customs Tariff Supplement Law at the 63rd session of the Faculty of Doctor Lagumdžija, in the framework of a debate on the Information Council of Ministers on the results of the application of the BiH Customs Tariff Law, proposed a conclusion that did not receive an entity majority. You've received a report from the Commission from the College. You've seen that no consent has been reached. We must now execute the second round of voting. So, I invite you to come forward in the second round, who is Dr. Lagumdžija's proposed conclusion? We all vote. You have, you made up the commission report, Dr. Lagumdžija asked after, the audit report that the D.A.'s office is working, in that sense doing their part of the job. I'm paraphrasing the conclusion, therefore. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. Who's to conclude Dr. Lagumdžija? For 18, versus 7, 13 from the Federation, 5 from the RS. The conclusion is accepted. There's no need to vote on the entity. So this conclusion was accepted even though it had no agreement on... So this conclusion of Dr. Lagumdžija was accepted. I'm right, then. I ask the first order of MPs from the U.S.A. to vote. We have a record that people don't vote. For, against, abstention, but here is the problem of not voting, although MPs can do it if they will, but please know nicely because we have a listing. Please, let's get this straight. Dr. Lagumdžija's conclusion was passed, no matter how anyone voted. You can get a list. Here you go. Who's asking for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19560	The MPs of the SDA have asked for an explanation of the conclusion that we do not ask Dr Lagumdžija as a pronoun... we do not have him to tell us because we only have a report from the commission from which we really do not remember the conclusion, so we will vote afterwards.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19561	Please, nice. I'll read you the conclusion even though all the MPs have it. So the conclusion is, he did not get consent to the College and therefore this home must be made known because we failed to reach agreement. The report is referred to the state prosecutor to show, both from the point of view of possible violations of the Law on State Institutions and firms that have misused the decision, an audit report. So that's the conclusion that we haven't reached agreement on. Here's a colleague of Zorić. Can I have your patience, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19562	I think what you've just spent as chairman is that the conclusion has not been adopted. Because the agenda item is called the report, if 20 MPs who were able to vote within such short notice voted in favour, then they voted in favour of the report, then accepts that no agreement has been reached.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19563	Please, you didn't, now you know the procedure as well as I do. You may request a re-election. I don't run away from that, but there is a procedure if no consensus is reached in the College, the conclusion is voted, the House declares itself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19564	aali without intending to have a dialogue, a lot of MPs asked what we were voting on and you put this to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19565	No, no. Do you demand again, just a little bit
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19566	I'd like to vote again.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19567	So you're looking for another vote. Dr. Lagumdžija, if there's any need for clarification, please. We're going to vote. It's not a problem. Sak has the right to plead as he wills, please. No, at the conclusion of the report, no consensus has been reached, the conclusion is voted. I guess that's Dr. Lagumdžija, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19568	Thank you. Sobzir, no, I mean, it's obvious that the College didn't achieve consent, it was seen from this vote. Namely, yes, let me just remind you of what this is all about. We were at a session in the last session in July, we had a report here by Dr Kunić and the Council of Ministers report on the application of those releases of that garbage, that there was nothing wrong but the Commission concluded that many things were done illegally, that there were abuses etc. I then proposed a conclusion, which I repeat here, that the report should be sent to the state's attorney to show from the point of view of possible violations of the law in state institutions, as well as firms that have misused the decision. And then that conclusion got most of it but didn't have an entity majority. Let me remind you, he didn't have an entity majority from an entity. And now, this is not the Commission's report, the College has failed to reach agreement, now the vote is again on the conclusion. The conclusion must be given to the two-thirds majority against, in order to pass. In other words, the Commission's report is not voted on but on this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19569	There was confusion here and in our vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19570	Please, 21
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19571	And in other words, Mr. Zorić, since you were against it a little bit, then the conclusion was adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19572	Please, there's someone in charge of interpreting the Rules of Procedure, Branko,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19573	So you need two-thirds vote against. You don't vote for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19574	Please, Branko, secretary to read the provisions
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19575	So you need to vote two-thirds against, so this doesn't go to the prosecutor. In other words, this goes to the DA now.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19576	Wait a minute, Dr. Lagumdžija. I'm asking Branko to
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19577	He's going to the D.A. outside this house.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19578	We voted well, Doctor.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19579	You won't simplify it. And try again if people weren't clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19580	Just a little bit, please. We voted, we voted well. If someone asks the vote to happen again, we'll do it again because we've made it clear to everyone now. So here the problem, we haven't reached agreement, the House has to plead for, against, abstention. And it's known how long it takes for the conclusion to be accepted or rejected. Now that all of you in the parliamentary majority have been clarified, and you don't seem to be going to the prosecutor's office, we're going to do it again. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19581	I ask the chairman, I have the right to reply and I ask him not to abuse the pay phone in terms of assessing who is against sending this report to the competent institutions on behalf of this home. I mean, there's no argument for such use of the pay phone in terms of the presidency. So you can also take a list from last session who was in favour, that this is going to report so you'll see which people you've been for. And I've been to college this, I've been to get this report going. Now I thought it was a vote on whether or not this report was accepted that 22 goes to counter-votes. And there's been a misunderstanding and I'm asking you to clear that up. And I'm asking that as a College, we clear up and let everyone know that all MPs have full information on what's being voted on. I think it was a draft of a misunderstanding, not that we're now doing political evaluations of who's for, who's not, I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19582	Thank you. It wasn't my intention, we'll all share what we're for and what we're not for, all of us. I ask Branko to, to interpret and vote. If anyone's looking again, Belkić, please, come in, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19583	My intervention with the MP. So, if I understand correctly, Mr Špirić, you said now it's clear to the parliamentary majority,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19584	Finish Replication
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19585	So if that's how you wanted to register who's against and who's in favor, that this thing goes to the D.A., you made a mistake.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19586	I'll apologize, we'll all vote to tell who we are, what we're not.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19587	Don't lead the investigation. So in this House it becomes normal very, these documents, recording how who etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19588	Well, I beg you, why, I never refrained from being a part of the majority. Let's not compromise on that.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19589	Of course it's a public matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19590	Let's not talk about it, please. Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19591	Speak without the microphone on
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19592	Mr. Belkić, so he has the right for people to ask for a list. Mr. Zorić asked that the vote be repeated. 23 I ask Branko to give the interpretation of how to vote, to finish it. Don't let us get into polemics. Please listen, someone knows, someone doesn't know, someone knows on purpose, someone doesn't know on purpose, but I need to know because I'm running a session.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19593	I'm begging you, just a little patience. So, since we're in the second round of voting,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19594	Please listen so there won't be any misunderstandings. You'll have to take it easy later.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19595	Since we are in the second round of voting, we are applying the provision of Article 65(4). The Rules of Procedure presented to you in the Commission's report to the College, and it reads. If the College fails to reach a consensus, decisions will be made by the majority of the total number of MPs present, who vote. So this first majority, with the condition that votes against do not contain two-thirds or more of the MPs elected from each entity. So we're voting for, against, abstention, and then in that majority we're looking at whether he got that ordinary majority and then we're going to go see if there were two-thirds against the entity. It's from RS 10, Federation 19. I think it's clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19596	Just a little bit, so we voted, because people asked for a re-interpretation, they can ask for a re-election if they want to. I don't mind. My colleague Zorić asked that it be repeated, please let us repeat the vote, please let the people ask for it, let us repeat the vote that we do not debate politically I apologize if I have added oil to the fire. So we're voting again. So, who's to conclude the doctor, Mr. Potočnik, is it about the vote? Well, a man has the right to ask for it to happen again, he did.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19597	He has the right to repeat himself. So now we go out, we vote, someone saw that he was wrong, that he didn't understand, and now he's asking to vote again.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19598	And what do we do, that's it. Please, we can't take any more part in the debate. He's asking for a man to repeat his vote. Here's a colleague of Zorić. Momo, no replicas, no need, we vote again.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19599	I'm giving up my request because you didn't give me a word earlier when I asked. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19600	So the vote is considered correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19601	Because mine isn't being respected here, I'm looking for a replica of correcting an incorrect quote, and you, you're just saying don't. I won't, I won't be in the debates at all today, because you are chairing the session in a trendy and in no way. And you're the parliamentary majority because she chose you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19602	So change me brother, what can I do about it? I'm sorry, so it's not my place to do the research. If someone's asking you to,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19603	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19604	No, you asked, I did, and you said you wanted to vote again. Please, colleague Novaković, come in. Wait a minute, we'll be done.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19605	Well, look, this isn't about whether or not someone should ask for another vote. This is about the fact that the chairman did not give the vote in a regular manner and his own, he suggested that only those who are in favour and not those who are against it would vote. It's so understood and so it is, so it's said. So there's no need, the chairman doesn't even need to turn the new side. He can say okay, if it wasn't a clear question I asked, I'm asking that question again and I'm giving
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19606	No, I won't do it again, if anyone says they vote again, someone asks, we'll vote again. I'm not gonna ask for another vote, I think voting is the right thing to do. Here you go. Is there anyone who can ask for a re-election? I'm sorry, you're human, slowly, what is it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19607	Well, you see, first you say we sign up electronically. When he logs in electronically, then I see that you're catching who raised his hand. Number one, I'm a fellow sitting here, deluded, and we voted on the report. To prove it, I think there's a charter, when last time it was a vote on this conclusion and it's not true. So the people who voted for the conclusion last time, today the situation happened that they think they're voting on the report, so they vote differently. So, these insinuations of the guy that happened, it's not the conclusion that someone should be caught in the back of the corner, which our people say, so if they pass, they pass. What's controversial is that you repeat the vote but with a clear question. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19608	Ask for a vote again, we'll do it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19609	We are voting on the conclusion of Zlatko Lagumdžija and not on the Commission report which is negative, this is the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19610	Dr. Živković, just a little patience, please. Whoever asks us to do it again, we'll do it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19611	I'd like to ask you to put the tension down a little bit. It's really not a question of whether someone wants to send something to the D.A.'s Council, so let people see if there's anything or not. I don't think that's questionable at all. No question about who voted for it last time either. To make it clear, here's the SNSD Club asking for a repeat vote and for everything to be clear, because no one is likely to change their mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19612	I thank my colleague Živković. We're voting again, so please ask the question. Who's to conclude Dr. Lagumdžija, since the College failed to achieve consent? Please, that's the question. Vote now. So, who's to conclude? 32, 2 against, 2 abstentions. I find this conclusion accepted. So, there was no need for so much walking, but that's what we're going to do, Parliament is this. I don't blame anyone, but I didn't tend to do anything to make someone angry. If I am, if someone is, my colleague Zorić, I apologize if you are. We're moving to the fourth item of the agenda. Ad.4. The proposal for a traffic safety law on roads, the second reading at last session we discussed the proposal for this law in the second reading. That means we've been discussing the amendments that were tabled during the plenary phase. In the course of the debate, it turns out that there have been some discrepancies in the amendments adopted by the committee in charge, which is why Dom has tasked the committee in charge of holding a session at the break and submits a report to Dom on issues in question. The Transport and Communications Commission submitted a report containing three new amendments. Finally, we postponed the bill's report and adopted the conclusion that the proposal for a law in the second reading concluded the debate, that there was no new debate and no new amendments except for these three amendments in the Commission Report of 27 July. By the beginning of the session, we had not received any amendments, amendments to the last report of the 26 Commission. We are left to make a statement about the amendments we have in the plenary phase. I'll remind you of the adms that were filed at the plenary stage. Mirsad Ćeman has filed 21 amendments. Adem Huskić two amendments, which he submitted after the Commission's first report and a new amendment which he submitted within the new deadline given for amendments and which he wants to defend in the plenary phase, after not being accepted by the Commission. Milorad Živković defends one amendment. Dušanka Majkić defends 9 amendments, Maritin Raguž, Filip Andrić branches 10 amendments, and Sead Avdić has submitted two amendments but withdrew them at the last session. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is closed. We're pleading today on the amendments. I'm opening a debate. Here you go, colleague Ćeman reporting. Please sign in, colleague Ćeman you didn't sign up even though I only saw your hand. Dušanka Majkić is before, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19613	No problem, here's a colleague first, so I'll do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19614	Here you go, Dušanka, you got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19615	I have a competent commission question. I did not really re-amend the amendment to the Commission's amendment, counting that the Commission would demonstrate this. I was the last time we talked about this, I had a problem with the amendment that came in, 79 is whether, which is 79 of this, in the supplemental report, and that's the second in a row of reports from this commission, where it's scheduled to delete Articles 251 and 253. I have challenged this by contesting this, in general, ground for deleting Article 253 because Article 253 calls for implementing rules which remain in force to the extent that they are not contrary to this law and until the rules laid down in Article 248. Please, can anyone, on behalf of the motionor or the constituency committee, say that when we adopt this law, we put out of force all implementing regulations, we have these others already adopted? We don't. Therefore, this is not legally consistent. I'm entitled to tell you, I didn't purposely want to put the amendment here now, counting on one of the people I asked to do it. Therefore, if we adopt Amendment II in the supplementary report, in order 2, that is this 79 we will actually make this law impossible to apply. So let it be discussed. If there is a need for my amendment, now it is legally this one, it could be untimely but simply this amendment cannot be accepted by the Commission. He can't be an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19616	I thank my colleague, Ćeman. Please, we must, of course, and this point... we've been working on this law for a long time, postponing deadlines, amendments to amendments, and today we're at an opportunity, there's no debate, we have amendments and we have a vote on amendments. It is impossible to reopen today as if we were 27 at the first plenary session. No, I'm sorry if someone didn't do the job on time, but we just have to respect the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19617	I can unfortunately say that Mr. Ćeman is quite right and that it is not the only mistake of this law. Last time we had a president of the ministry who claimed that it was an explicit question to him whether or not the material was, whether the whole law was done in collaboration with OHR or whether a professional person from Sweden who was paid by OHR was used to participate in this debate in order to get quality law, it was publicly said to this Parliament that it was. I didn't believe in the information we got. I have sent a letter to OHR and the chairman, I think you should say that we have received from OHR an answer that clearly states that OHR does not stand behind this law because that law has been consulted only at the first time and after that, after 170 amendments the law has lost consistency in many of its parts and if it adopts this parliament as it is, it will be a disgrace and shame because, after that, I will read you only one absurd. In Article 234, please see point 24. Find the text that says - the owner of the vehicle that has been depriving its vehicle from Article 181(2) from the day of management is talking about penalties, and Article 181(2) says - the tables of Article 1 of this Article have the form of squares. I want to tell you that the ultimate discrepancy is the text of this law. It's been a long time, but I think it makes more sense that it lasts another three months and this law comes after a lot of amendments, to get in line so we have the right law. I suggest, here I see members of the Council of Ministers in the Minister himself, that the law be withdrawn, that it should be done and that it should then be re-admissioned. There's no point in discussing a law like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19618	I thank my colleague, Majkić. I'm just asking you to try the MPs to stick to the Rules of Procedure. It's impossible to break the law. You can shut down against the law, like you didn't ask me if you'd send a letter to the OHR, don't even ask me what I'm not saying that you all got the answer. You all have correspondence as normal as I do. What I feel is the need to inform, which I owe, I'll be happy to do. And whoever's writing with the OHR, whoever it is, it doesn't interest me too much. I am obliged to lead this session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So, as a MP, I encourage you, if you are against the law, to vote against the law. It's impossible, and I'll give my stand in the way of voting. It's impossible to get out of the business procedure because we've used everything, extended deadlines. Today we must make a statement, the amendments have been concluded and the final text of the law. So it's a business procedure. Please, Filip Andrić called, so I have Milorad Živković reported, please. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19619	Mr. President, fellow MPs, I would like to remind you of a debate on this law at the last session. As I recall, we then realized that during the procedure of this law we had changed the three Commission secretaries, that we had two reports, that we had some amendments such as Mr Zorić's amendment adopted on the Commission, which were partly embedded in the consolidated text of the law that we have and which are not very much. And these have come up as new moments and new facts that have led us to postpone our statement on the law and amendments, with the conclusion that the Commission is in charge of preparing an integrated consolidated text with all the amendments adopted on the Commission from the first to the last article of the law, in order to remove confusion and dilemmas in the law. Because, frankly, I would probably withdraw some amendments if the text of the law changed, or if the amendments proposed by Mr Zorić were already adopted. However, in the law that we are now voting on, these amendments are not visible. And I don't think that the Commission has done it or any other secretariat, who should have done it, that part of the job so that we can make a quality statement today. So I suggest we postpone the plea and put in charge of the Commission in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19620	Thank you. So, Milorad Šivković, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19621	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to talk about the law itself, I'm going to talk about the way the law is passed and everything that's going on here. In fact, we from the SNSD when OHR claimed that Mladić was in Han Pijesk or was in place, asked the Ministry of Defence to provide us with a report on whether or not it was, you know. So we had a report here where our authorities said it wasn't. So OHR said something that wasn't true at the time. Now we get the same report or similar, and the Council of Ministers tells us one thing and OHR claims the other. I wonder who's right now and who's wrong. And until that's resolved, as a member of the Commission, I feel like I've been deceived. I'm not saying on whose side, as well as OHR, this law has been being made for a long time, he could have reacted a hundred times that he wanted to and not in this way to deliver to us in another reading like this. And it doesn't matter, as far as human beings are concerned, me as a member of the Commission where journalists call and talk about gynecologists and foresters and others passing such important laws. So until this situation is resolved who has deceived whom in the very way of law-making, I am not prepared to vote on that law and I will call on Article 97. The Rules of Procedure say that during the debate referred to in Article 96, point two(?), which is the second reading, the debate on amendments, the House can assess that adopted amendments cause internal discrepancies or contain legal and technical errors. We have seen, both Mrs. Majkić and his colleague, Ćeman, say that some of the amendments are causing irregularities and that, in that case, such amendments or members are being referred to the committee responsible who will also consider them and make appropriate changes and propose a harmonised text. So we have a business opportunity to get it back to the Commission in accordance with Article 97, and in the meantime, to clarify who was misleading when this law was passed. Thank you. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19622	Thank you. Miloš Jovanović answered the floor, then Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19623	Well, you see, I'm sorry first that I wasn't at the last session of the Assembly and I wasn't even at the last session of the Commission and the report from that commission you received. I'm the president of this committee and I really don't care who's lobbying, who's paying whom, who's listening to whom, I just mean, I'm behind this report delivered by the Commission. I'll try to explain. According to what I am, and yesterday we had a commission where we adopted the minutes from these sessions, you tasked the Commission. Since there were some discrepancies and the Commission was in session on 27.7., that report was received. So, all those amendments that were, of them, the Commission adopted three. Three amendments, and you got that report. And normally, and these three amendments are an integral part of the law plus all those amendments that you have, I think all MPs have received, which the Commission has adopted. Therefore, with those amendments you have previously received and these three adopted by the Commission on 27.7., which are part of the law, means I will vote myself, so I am speaking now, on behalf of the Commission, and I would ask all the members of the Commission, to plead and say so, I will personally vote for this law with the amendments that the Commission has adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19624	Thank you. My colleague Momčilo Novaković. And I apologize to Minister Dokić for asking for a word, so if it will help the next debaters, I suggest we give the minister a chance, that is, priority. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19625	The esteemed presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to explain to this occasion some of the concerns that came after the OHR letter that I received yesterday. I can only tell you that I first sent a request to OHR to send its delegation or representative to a working group meeting held on 16 March 2004, on which one variant of the law that had long been working on this law was to be considered, in December 2003, almost brought into line. So here is the call for them, the European Commission, the European Police, etc. Niko of them responded to that meeting. We are when after the work group took part with representatives of all three ministries, communication and transport, so state and entity, interior ministries, European police, who else were? So all those who are somehow related to the issue of this law. So, when we had one version of the law that we were prepared to send to the Council of Ministers, that was at the end of July last year, we also sent OHR this work material to give us an opinion on this material. On August 13th, Mr. Hejs sent me a letter saying that he thanks for getting that material for 30 analysis but they are begging to wait for a while until they give their comments and opinions. On August 31st, I replied that we would gladly accept their opinion but that it would be within reasonable time, no later than a few weeks. It's past I think, almost two months, we haven't received all of September, half August and half October, excuse me, and half of October, we wrote a proposal for a bill to the Council of Ministers, which was adopted and addressed to Assembly procedure 14.12. It is only 11 March 2005 that I receive the following letter from Mr Hejs and in addition to the opinion of the Swedish consultant. So, only March 11th, when the law was already in the process. And in these opinions are made comments and some of the amendments that you MPs have sent. I can say that the consultant's report has been discussed, that some things have been respected and some are not respected. Yesterday I insisted that the President of the Commission who sits here, therefore, be held accountable to me, to taxfully state to me, what is respected, what is not respected. The general conclusion of the Swedish consultant is that the law is well in line with international rules, the Vienna Convention, European agreements and applicable EU regulations but also stressed the need to adopt sublegal acts, which we never dispute, on the contrary. And, in a conversation with the members of our commission, he pointed it out, and we also confirmed, of course, that many things will have to be clarified, specified by sublegal acts, and we already have at least twenty sublegal acts in mind, that they will need to be done under this law. For example. It is respected to introduce a register of cars at national level. We already have that. The load on the vehicle will be accepted but by means of the rules. So it will be specified by the rules. Suggestions were accepted regarding the amount of alcohol in the blood. Use of seat belts. So his suggestions were accepted. A system of fines. It's not accepted, for example. its suggestion to reduce distance on the roads from the pedestrian crossing where the pedestrian must use the pedestrian crossing. As we said, the Commission felt that there was something more specific about us than the EU. There are a few other suggestions that are not accepted not because they are not incorporated, it was considered not necessary to be incorporated into the law, but will be incorporated into various regulations and sublegal acts and he himself has offered to help us to produce these sublegal acts in one part of his report and we are fully open in that sense and anyone who can help us as an expert is welcome. Here, I felt the need to do this, so let me say, take off any conspiracy intention or intention of trying to get something under the grain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19626	I thank Minister Dokić. Is it a replica? Wait a minute, whoever has the replica, we've got regular applications for discussion. Anybody got a replica? Mr. Novaković, discussion, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19627	Mr. Chairman, honourable members of the Council of Ministers, fellow MPs, I have analyzed these amendments a little bit here, and I really think that 31 need one break after this debate of maybe 15 munits, at most half an hour, in order to clear up all these dilemmas now, especially with regard to the Commission and certain amendments. As I understand it, the Commission has accepted two amendments, i.e. Amendment V and Amendment X of the HDZ Club, which now raises an objective question as to what is going on with the other amendments to their touch, especially when it comes to this amendment v. I would Takođe like to say that we have received some letters here and there are the right colleagues, Commissioners, especially when some of the letters that have come to be revised when the Commission's work has already been completed or at the last session of the Commission. In my opinion, the OHR's rather unserious attitude towards and the work of the Commission means, if you want to go through the Commission and this Parliament. Also, I must say that the amendments, Mrs Majkić, are in fact amendments that I have proposed, so and who have not received the support of the Commission, I did not deliberately repeat them, believing that this issue can be regulated by a special law and I had an intention along with the people who are dealing with this area and who have put out obviously now and some views, such as the position of the Transport Council of the RS, etc. It means that we work together on a legal solution that would define this area of driving exams, spices completely, and that it would, of course, be in line with EU principles. I will, of course, support these amendments for the principle of reasons, since I was also a proposing of these amendments, but I think it is much better to work on the adoption of a new law that will fully define this and thus allow for the passage of this law, of course with these statements on these amendments. So, I'm asking after the debate is over, before the 15-minute vote breaks.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19628	Thank you. For word's sake, the replica of my colleague, Majkić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19629	I'm really glad if I have the opportunity to influence the members of the SDS who agree more with me than with the president of the SDS Club, so I'm sorry that here's the position of the Security of Transport Council of the RS, which was organised within the Ministry of Traffic and Communications, so within the framework of the Government of Republika Srpska, as an expert body dealing with this matter, considered the proposal for this law and said, the law does not satisfy that, he wrote exactly what its remarks are and should be withdrawn. So if that's what the President of the Council says, it's Dr Dragan Mijahlović, who seems to me to be a member of the SDS, then I really don't know how he failed to inform his club members. That's one thing. Secondly, to ignore what, the letter of the OHR, and I believe that they wrote correctly and truthfully, because it's not in this House, people haven't been telling the truth, people shouldn't have been ignored, I checked in the Federation, there's no appropriate body to hear their professional attitude as a professional body dealing with traffic security. 32 Therefore, I ask the representatives of the SDS Club not to question anything but a good intention to make this law right. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19630	I thank my colleague, Majkić. Replica again, Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19631	Wait a minute, I think first of all, no one affected me, and this law is really very serious because it's very serious. It's about people's lives. I must say, obviously, we don't all have all the information. Namely, the Council held a meeting and did not attend the chairman who signed it, so Mr. Mihajlović did not attend although he had nothing to do with the SDS but here was not a man present. So even if he did, he wouldn't be able to influence me to change my mind and even if he were a member of the SDS, especially since he had nothing to do with the SDS. So, he didn't even attend this Council session, and I have to say that from those who attended, I heard what I just said about lobbying. I appreciate it very much, I must say, very much appreciate the efforts of these people. If I didn't appreciate it, I wouldn't have at least 10 meetings with them, believe in Prnjavor and Banja Luka. If I didn't appreciate it, I wouldn't put pressure on the chairman-in-Office of the Commission to invite them to all the meetings of the Commission in order to have the opportunity to make their views known. Here, Mr. Chairman of the Commission is here, so let him say how many times I have insisted, even though I am the amendment that they, on behalf of me, have authorised them to attend and explain these views. I still think that these solutions are very useful, and I will say, vote for solutions, not because Mrs. Majkić proposed them, but because I had these proposals, so I didn't want them to go back and thinking that the passage of the law should be possible and that this area should be regulated by new law. That's what this is about. And naturally, I will always be influenced by anyone who proposes something that is real and correct, but not influence, but I will analyze all these suggestions regardless of where they came from.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19632	Thank you. Cola Jovanović, and we conclude, is the replica Moranjkić? No, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19633	I assume your esteemed colleagues that you've all received this memo from OHR. I, some of them got it today, I got it earlier. And here, when you look at the names, all meanings are club presidents, members of the colleges, Mr. Dokić, I, as chairman of the Commission and Mrs. Majkić, and there is no president of the SNSD Club, there are no other club presidents. So, besides everyone, there's and here's Mrs. Dušanka Majkić, I think she's saying this enough, probably, where this letter means that this one is addressed to her. And the other thing, these amendments she suggested, I apologize, Mrs. Majkić and Mr. Novaković, this part is part of the same team. I have to say, 33 to be honest, and these people have been attending the Commission's meetings all the time and I can't say that these people haven't been enough and helped us as the Commission. And the other thing, by the time I answered, to say that at every session of the Commission, there were four people from the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and here I am going to read, Nikola Šego, Mirko Šekara, Vojo Koprivica and Mehmed Dujso. I think we had almost a dozen Commission sessions, so these people were always almost everyone on board and I think at the beginning, at the first and second sessions, I already forgot that we had a public debate on this law in March. At first they were representatives, I may be able to find that record, representatives and OHR. And they didn't object when it was said that a Swedish expert participated in this law, then no one said he wasn't involved and here they say they didn't participate.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19634	Thank you. A kolegica of Majkić's, a replica. I ask you if it is possible to bring this replica to an end, to get to the point because the debate is closed. So we have to go to the Rules of Procedure and see if we can work something out.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19635	I need a replica really,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19636	Here, I'm not defending, but here's the distraction.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19637	The OHR sent a letter to the biggest parliamentary clubs. He sent it to me because I was looking for what I didn't believe. I have asked this Parliament a loud and clear question, to the Council of Ministers, whether it is true, whether it is the second, whether it is the third, I have received all the positive answers. I didn't believe it. That's why I sent the letter because I don't trust the people who explained it. I still don't believe it, no matter what a member of the Commission says it was. I am sure that this letter is correct and I am sure that the Swedish expert participated only in the first part and that, after the 170 amendments had arrived, no one had seen the law. And I'm undermining that several MPs are reporting and saying that the law is inconsistencies and technically incomplete. It would be a shame to let such a law be passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19638	Thank you. Here's just for my colleague, Živković, to conclude the replica, so Novaković, I hope we'll have a discussion. Here, please, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19639	It's just a little replica. In fact, I see only the congregation majority of club presidents here, I'd be surprised if I were here in this, but that's what I was going to say, 34.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19640	No, it's said he's not the president of the SNSD Club, you didn't hear right.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19641	Yeah, but everything else is a congregation majority, club president, no SDP has no others from the opposition, so we're not exactly in good relations with OHR and reformers are, so.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19642	A colleague, Novaković, and I ask you to close the line. I'm begging you not to go,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19643	I only want to find out once more that certain MPs do not trust their own colleagues in the commission, but trust OHR. It means that this finding is being undermined and that we can see really openly, when it comes to not only this but all other laws and, I resent OHR for correspondence individually with MPs without colleges, without the president of the commission, etc. I really don't think this makes any sense anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19644	Thank you. Closed replicas. We're moving on to a debate. Kolga Bešlagić, then Ljiljana Milićević, then Mirsad Ćeman, and the others who applied I have on the keyboard everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19645	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, let me just say a few words as an MP, but as a member, I would also say the Traffic Commission that was working on this law. I was caught yesterday by a letter from the OHR, and I was happy there was no SDP. For the first time, I felt pleased that this law was done without the OHR because it was the law for BiH and on the other hand I was in a dilemma whether or not the OHR contacts were made. Here, today he confirmed that it was the minister, and it's their fault that you weren't further in that work. So they just want to say they're in charge. The second thing, that's this letter is catastrophic. The place with the fact that he didn't get it, and the radio man, he got all the information, the place that he now sent what didn't agree, which doesn't agree, which is what the remarks are, so that we, like the Commission, consider saying, okay, we respected and we suggest to you that there's still a phase prolonging, he just as an offended young man found out that he wasn't, and that's where he tramples it, he denies anything about the law. He doesn't say anything about the law. 35 Therefore, let me say one thing as a member of the Commission. We had what HDZ asked for last time, i.e. we had a consolidated text that was delivered to you and we realized that some amendments, or some members, had dropped what we agreed, and the Commission was sitting there that day, and it concluded that three amendments meant repairing, in which we accepted HDZ proposals. So where entities are mentioned, District Brcko is deleted and handled in accordance with Article 2 and that the entire material in the law means that it is accepted. And that's how we accepted what the Commission actually accepted, in the meantime when we first agreed on this one. The second amendment was about charging, so we said it was necessary to do it for the reason that it was defined to charge or better said distribution of income goes there under the law which it now belongs to, and tomorrow, without prejudge, if the law applies then it will apply under that law. So that's accepted, too. And the third was an amendment to me, it was the opposite of two laws, so we said that this law was being passed and that it would apply after the adoption of these other regulations or, following acts and thus we ended that part, I would say debates about... The Commission has respected the amendments last time, and since we adopted the first phase of reading the proposal, we were unable to reconsider and we said that the amendments proposed on that committee were forwarded to Parliament and that we are, in fact, coming forward and after that for this law. I must point out that this is one of the laws that has worked the longest. On the other hand, I claim that the best law, at least as far as I'm concerned, is in relation to the laws we've passed, because most people have been involved in making this law. Three public hearings, countless commissions, countless discussions with experts domestic and foreign. For these reasons, I don't see any reason why you should postpone today and pass the law. Just as all laws have their shortcomings, I think this law in the further procedure can go with the amendment phase supplementing and amending the law. But I argue that this law should be adopted with the principles that it applies to BiH because I believe that I, as a BiH citizen, feel uncomfortable when I run into every canton, when I come and every entity, everyone has an interpretation. I think that, for these reasons, this law is, and with certain shortcomings other than technical errors, I apologize that could apply to Article 183, if it is covered, that it is a mistake, that it is correct and that I propose today that we in Parliament open the debate according to the amendments, and that ultimately, we vote or do not reach conclusions. I don't see any other reason or way out of this stuff. As far as OHR's concerned, thank them for the suggestion. I'm sorry they didn't participate, and that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19646	Thank you. Parliamentary intervention MP Moranjkić. I have it marked for discussion, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19647	sobzir, thank you, Mr. Chairman, I forgot, since I see myself more and more dust about what I shouldn't be, and slowly the surface comes up to 36 of what is misery and which sometimes appears in this House, which is the mafia lobbying that should be pushed through laws, abused even by an important institution called OHR. Look, I'm asking, but we've been refused to photocopy, to get every member of Parliament's opinion of the OHR on their participation in this bill, which is one billion percent contrary to the letter that came with Mr. Baltler's signature and it's not true with the forged signature of Mr. Baltler. Which means, that the mob that got involved in bringing such an important and so far the most correct bar to the Parlaent Law has come into a position like this that's being served here. This is kind of disgusting. To look for something that needs to be solved entirely by a different law, to push into this law and insist on being, has its backdrop. In the background, if it is necessary, but in this House it may be broadly said, I learned from Mr. President of the Oto-school Association of Maglai who set his car on fire, found me in Srebrenica, told who was behind it and that the man who pushed it through the committees and through individuals and through Parliament, there was no agreement whatsoever between the association and any of his authorities, by the Management Board, skuština etc. That's what he's doing. Therefore, as the first deputy of this committee, as an MP, I believe that we have been extremely honest, and so far the most content work, that the truth, in one such way, was quite accurately expressed by Mr. Minister, that we accept and agree that we have been collectively working, that we have not put anyone in another plan, etc. We have all done, we propose, I propose as an MP to this House that we do not hesitate to jump into such a law and direct it to one wrong path. And I ask that this material be copied from the OHR signed by Mr. Hejs and the one where a Mr. Balteler forged and that evil would be even worse, it is claimed that the club presidents, all the clubs sitting in this House have been given. That's not true. ...just the chosen and then I hear the comment got the one who needed it. And who shouldn't get that in this House if there's already one intervention? It is said that this is not fair and I am normal, as a man first, if he goes the other way, I am canceling the work on this committee, I support the full views expressed by Mr. President Jovanović, and I demand that the business procedure be respected, which you have insisted on, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19648	I would like to thank my colleague, Moranjkić. Ladies and gentlemen, Ljiljana Milićević called. Wait a minute, let me try to get out of this. We haven't yet entered the essence of what we're doing today. Many letters have complicated this debate. This letter, which Mr. Moranjkić spoke of, was not addressed to Parliament, but was addressed by Donald Hejs, the senior deputy High Representative of Minister Dokić and should not. Okay, it's the same matter. So I don't argue that you share it with anyone you want, but let's deal with it essentially in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, this is what you said. So we're done, all phases according to the Rules of Procedure. We have a consolidated text, and here we have colleagues now saying that they have sat down in the Commission and seen what of the HDZ amendment, it has been the conclusion of Parliament I can accept. Today, we need to talk about amendments and the law. The law can fall or it can pass, I won't go into it. If it falls, there's time to sit down with the OHR-37 and make something new. If it goes through, we'll have the law. Corrections are possible, but today we don't exhaust ourselves in each other's accusations about who asked for the letter, who didn't. We've got amendments, we've got what we've done, so let's not spill it. Here's my suggestion and my pain, and I'm going to take a break at the request of the SDS Club to see what we can do because the goal is to find a solution, not to complicate who he wrote to and when he wrote. That's less important. Mrs. Majkić's replica, but please, in the future, we won't be replicating any more, so let's get to the point because I have to lead this session into a scale with the Rules of Procedure. If you think I don't run well, you tell me, I'll gladly sit in the bench and be an MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19649	I really agree that it is ineffective to have a lot of replicas but I also ask you to allow MPs of this House to express different opinions but have no right to insult. Because I want to ask a few questions. Which is what it came by, and one of my amendments that led to the advantage of anyone, by asking for children to be respected by the law and not by the law. Is that a sin of my proposals? By asking to finally introduce order in this country to pass driving tests, so that people who are even now legislators of the law are 15 years already members of the commission, examination committees dealing with positions, and earning 15 years already at the job. Is that the sin I set? And I'm asking for this job to be done by the state agency to handle it. Is that lobbying? I don't accept any of these thesis Mr. Moranjkić said. Each of these points of my amendments that I have brought here, which are not covered by the EU directive that I have listed and which are not subject to the regulations of other countries as they have arranged, should be deemed not to exist. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19650	And I'm asking you, we haven't begun to make any statements about the amendments yet. No Niko knows what the fate of the amendment is. So please, let's get started, we're still having a bad debate about who he wrote to and what he did to ski. That's absolutely irrelevant. We will plead specifically from the amendment to the amendment. Whoever is accepted will be an integral part of the text. I have submitted thousands of amendments to this House, they have not been accepted, I have never made a fuss. Please, nice. So, Ljiljana Milićević picked up the word, so we're going to have a debate. Please, let us bring this debate to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19651	Mr. Chairman, this morning when we came to this House session, I laughed when I saw that we had received an updated draft agenda, 31.6.2005. I feel exactly like today is that nonexistent June 31st. That someone told me that we would enter the law into another reading, that we would enter into the law that last time in July, if you remember, congratulated the Commission on great work and effort. These people have shown so much patience towards our ambitions and arguments for what we consider to be good, investing in amendments, that they have maintained I think a dozen Commissions of Transport and Communications, that we have not all agreed that this law is necessary, that we have not been well-biscuited, and that we believe that it is not conditional and that we have dared to write it ourselves. Our constitution, 38, and the Rules of Procedure say who can propose law in this country in this partnership. And as far as I know, we have neither Šveđanin nor Švajcarac nor Mađar. We've got an MP, we've got a club, we've got a board of mine, and so far we've got a fair co-operation that I've always counted on as helping people from the international community, if something's not clear to us that we're in progress with standards and so on. So that's all we got. We've come to another reading, we're talking here today, I completely understand but democracy, as democracy has given you the opportunity to submit an amendment, delete, seek a big, little letter, change the essence, so democracy and respect the will, what most people say in relation to your opinion. That's why I can't understand, and I understand speech from the heart of some MPs, and I understand the arguments, but let us determine ourselves on that point. I am primarily on you as the sole chairman, since there are no of your colleagues, asking you for a solution regarding the procedure. Here are the gentlemen in question, our website of ministers, the Ministry, the Transport and Communications Commission, it's about the House of Representatives. So, the BiH Parliament. Is it enough for us, based on what she said, to get into a situation like this, to throw away someone's hard work and work. So we need to find one solution this time so we don't step on our own. Second of all, as far as I'm concerned, my B.O.S. colleague, what's this all about? Comparing the signature that I found here today on the bench, this letter that applies to us, with a letter from the same OHR Batler who refers to the amendment of the Constitution, point 13, this only if one Cyrillic, another Latin signature. This isn't the same man you signed. Both are written by Mr. Lorens Batler. I mean, so, Mr. Špirić, you're the first among the same today, so please don't want me to judge who's right. People who wanted to go out to our Parliament to meet a committee that held more sessions and worked hard, and I have to believe, how am I going to trust them on other issues tomorrow if I don't trust my colleagues today? How can I not trust the Ministry that's here? I ask you to find a compromise way out and I'm willing to be ready for such an exit, but I don't want to question the necessity of this law, because this summer we witnessed a lot of serious car accidents and the loss of dozens of young people's lives, and that's why I feel responsible in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19652	Thank you. The Republic was sought by counterpart Živković, then discussed by Dr Tihomir Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19653	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, is indisputable that everyone in this room, and I believe that the people who did this law, including the OHR, has one single thought and that the law is good. To be good for people who drive, do pedestrians and for all human lives in BiH. And that was the intention of all of us in the Commission, knowing the Commission's chairman that I just insisted on it all the time, give as many people as possible to be involved that there is no man at the end to say that this law is not good. Why? Because that law needs to be implemented afterwards. If you pass a law that's full of suspicions, it's full of burdens. You won't be able to implement it, you won't be able to live as a law, that law 39 has to fail, we'll have an even bigger problem, security in traffic, and that's why I asked for it, and today I'm looking for the chairman again. When they enter the amendment phase, please put Article 97 to the vote on my proposal. The Rules of Procedure that the House declare whether or not some members, members have mentioned Mr. Ćeman and Mrs. Majkić, whether these members are making any discrepancies or containing legal-technical discussions, and that in this way we give more time to have anyone in this country object to this law and to adopt it at the next session and that this law has a chance to live and that it is entirely enough for me from today's debate to see who had the wrong intentions under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19654	Thank you. I beg you no more, we will say our every position by voting with amendments. If the proposal passes, we'll have a break. Tihomir Gligorić has a discussion, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19655	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I think this debate has been useful and that we can still get close to a solution. Now let me start with what Dr. Živković suggested, as he said we should give time and again I noticed that the President of the Commission, I see most of the members of the Commission, are in favour of this solution proposed by the Commission, and yet we heard how much time was spent from the public debate and until the Minister, Professor Dokić, explained to us the chronologically everything they have done so far and that it was a very clear situation, that everything practically that was available may have been exhausted. So I would like to propose and join Mr. Novaković's proposal to take a break in a way that includes the club heads with the Commission president, with the ministry's minister and competent people, and to try to discuss the law and amendments only today. Since we have to respect the Rules of Procedure and that we are in a phase and you, Mr. Chairman, have made it clear multiple times, that in the first reading we have ended up meaning the principles and content of the law and we can no longer go back to it, but that we simply now have a statement in the second reading, only about the law and amendments, and that we use this break in this way, doing a little wider and seeing what can be respected and what is important now is that it should be resolved by some other law, how much we can convince ourselves and how much trust we can have with each other that, along with what Minister Dokić was saying, when it comes to sublegal acts, twenty seems to me to be rules or sublegal acts that will regulate a lot of things that are not defined by this law. I think we can take a break this way and get close to this law, about its necessity, when we finally get to the bottom of it, talk or get back to the beginning. I don't think there's any willingness to maybe go back to the beginning and reopen something that's already been defined in these stages that's already been said by the Commission here. So I think that when we talk about procedures, I would also like to respect what Ms. Majkić and Dr. Živković are up to in terms of procedures and some changes, and I would never characterise with big words what she stands for and I personally know, that indeed many people exist in 40 municipalities that for so many decades that we haven't said that they usurped positions and how to remove them, and then it will be practically one reform law and what we need and what we need. I think we can get close and find this appropriate solution, and if not, as an MP if I were unhappy, I'd run changes and additions to that law, and I'd let it go again in the process, so I'd see something that if I didn't share most of my opinion with me today, I'd fix it in amendments and additions to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19656	I thank Dr. Gligorić. The Sopta Ruža answered for a word. Let him prepare for Izet Hadžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19657	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I am also one of the members of the Commission who has worked on this law and I can tell you that, at least since I've been in Parliament, we've given the most time to this law and I think we've done the most we've done and fixed this law. The fact is, we all agree that we need the law, and that's good. And if the law had been done for a long time, that's what the members of the ministry told us, because they had been working for four years, and unfortunately, what Mrs. Milićević said, if we had worked alone, we hadn't done it ourselves, they at least told us that there were representatives of expert groups from outside and international organisations involved, so I would say it was good. However, the Commission has done one part of the work that I think was needed by the ministry, this is about that public debate and through the knowledge of the public debate through our work and consultation of the expert staff of all of us in the Commission, we have done over 100, I would dare say over 150 interventions in this law. I am now wondering if this is even more the law that has come to us and how it will be and it is no wonder that today's debate is being held on this because how Parliament pleads on the law on which there have been over 150 amendments. In the course of the Commission's work, I proposed, and I demanded that a consolidated text be made, because we too were more lost in these so many interventions, we didn't know what change was, what wasn't. It was made, colleagues from the ministry participated precisely with us always in the work, and they immediately respected part of our amendments as representatives of the ministry and said that it was okay and then we begged them to install it in a consolidated text, that is to say, to create some kind of refined text in which we would see boldly what was added to it, that is, in a cross-over of what was changed. We got one of these, the law, the material but there were those changes they saw and they changed. With some of these changes, I'm now, not now, but at the last session I saw, and I didn't agree with those changes because they were changing something in some other direction. It means that it is not again a proposal from the ministry or the Council of Ministers, it is not a law that came from the Council of Ministers. What I miss, to know how to support a vice, how to support a further procedure, is the minutes from our last session of Parliament where we could see what it is and how it is asked of the Commission, what to do next. I really don't remember any more if we've come to terms with the amendments that last came to the benches. I remember that we did not, that we should make a consolidated text, all amendments 41, or minutes, a statement with all amendments adopted by the Commission to this law, so that Parliament could take one specific position and it was even said that one consolidated text would be made where certain amendments would be seen, since the amendments had been tabled in such a way as to say, Mr Zorić had tabled an amendment where the amendment was not literally accepted in Article 2, but at the suggestion of the ministry, respectively, the representatives of the ministry changed Article 2 and said that this would be consistent in all articles. We have seen for the last time that this has not been seen and we have seen it, one thing that was indeed drastic not only in the interest of the HDZ Representatives Club who invested these amendments and Vinko Zorić but was made a technical mistake where driving permits were said to be issued in entities, in entity bodies. Imagine now we all have to go to Banja Luka and ask Sarajevo for driver's licenses. The last time we did this repair, we did it at the session itself, and they were still seen, it's the same thing, that our amendment was adopted at the sitting or sent to the Commission, so the Commission made a report, and now I don't know whether that report was adopted, I'm saying that I was lost because of the lack of the last report. Mr. Ćeman explained and disagreed with the amendment of the X Club of Representatives of the HDZ which was accepted and I now hold that it is okay because if we talk about Article 252 and Article 253 if they remain in force then we have a vacuum of 6 months without legislation. Since we have proposed to delete 251 because it says on the date of entry into force of this law, the application of all the laws that have been in force or have been applied as laid down in the BiH territory of matter governing this law ceases. If we say that the law enters 8 days after adoption, and the application in Article 254 is for 6 months, we would have a 6-month vacuum. In the case of implementing acts, I do not need Article 253 as it refers to 251. It means that, until the application of this law, laws and implementing acts remain in force. Mr. Ćeman intervened that the implementing acts should remain. I don't think law enforcement can stay with any new law. They must be adapted to this new law and that part of the text is, let's say, the one, here's what I think it's all about. When it comes to changes that the ministries have introduced themselves in the consolidated text, it is there when it says, the minister is empowered to bring closer regulations with... co-operation with the relevant authorities. It is because of what we have said that some articles must change consistently, we have said that the competent authorities that are defined through this law are passing implementing acts. And it is true that some implementing acts will be adopted at the level of the county, some at entity level, some at state level. It is quite logical that the traffic sign law will not now bring every county or entity to itself, that they will be at state level. But it's also clear that some other things will bring county or entity. That is why, to avoid these very things, we have proposed that the competent authorities defined in Article 2 be the ones to adopt implementing acts. Because of all of this, I think it might be good, what Mr Živković has suggested, to make a complete report, with all the amendments and that we get the consolidated text because it exists, it will only mean a little change now in 42 of this, so that fellow MPs would really vote on the law as proposed by the Commission, i.e. the Commission and propose amendments, because otherwise it will be very difficult to follow this part. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19658	Thank you. Mr. Izet Hadžić answered for the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19659	Well, I wanted to say three, four sentences, to make it easier. Indeed, this number of amendments to adoption, not adoption, of 2-3 phases of the amendment's actual extension of this one, leads to doubt what the actual text of the law is. Since I worked in the Commission, I can freely confirm that the law which the Commission means has all processed the amendments, etc. A pretty good one to suggest that he adopt himself today. Since the application of this law is 6 months from the date of its adoption, whether the entry into force is indeed in that already published text, where there will be no more dilemma of what the law is and what it is not, etc. It can be intervened if there are any failures and I guess I can say responsibly that the law can probably be further improved but that there are no significant gaps. I want to say two or three more sentences, I'm glad to see one battle of MPs against saying, one lobby that would like to make money on this bill. So it's a car-school lobby. So now if, it could complicate the malts not to raise the driver's exam to a higher level than if the university etc. I mean, it was the same thing and the same lobby later when they were supposed to be to say this, experts who need to do theoretical teaching, they fight that they can be instructors without, craftsmen, etc. I mean, I mean if, we've seen this determined, illogical in their insistence. So, here I would say, I would support the proposals but I think that here, as a member of the Commission and as a traffic engineer and as a man who's over 25 years old to say in this area, I would like to invite you to pass this law today and that we certainly have space and time in the next six months, until we step up to improve it and I will make sure that we make special improvements on the accompanying acts that follow this law, especially to protect and participants in traffic, driving, etc. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19660	I thank Mr. Hadžić. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman and let Mr. Adem Huskić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19661	First of all, I'm up for the law to be passed today. Secondly, my first appearance on this topic today was just to in some way call on the legislators and the Commission to say better, the caution I have shown regarding Articles 251 and 253, of course, given the provision of Article 254 to simply clarify that. I can now be if anything, calm enough because it is from my mouth, so I understand, Minister Dokić with certainty in some way I have understood it made clear that within this period of 6 months of delayed application of the law it will be possible to prepare all 43 sublaws. My caution was only because I know from experience that it is not always possible and that it would really be a legal void if, within that time, not all these sublegal acts were passed, and because of that, caution is done, such a formulation is made which is actually left in force, regardless of which sometimes they are not always consistent or best sublegal acts, until they are replaced by others, and we would force the rested ministries and the competent authorities to bring you in. Let's say that it's no longer a dispute for me, here's some gentlemen in the next six months, but when the law comes into force, until his application prepares it all, and I'm calm. To come to this day, to vote on the law and everything, I'm not at all vain when my proposals don't go through, I'm trying to offer something that might be wrong, which is how I did with the renewed amendments, in total, you're the chairman of the 21st. I've decided to give up on those 21st, 14th, but I'm still going to ask for a statement on the 7th amendment. And that, Declaration on Amendment III
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19662	Mr. Ćeman, when we plead, may I ask you not to repeat, when we plead
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19663	I'm just so you can prepare yourself easier. Otherwise,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19664	Okay, you can.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19665	However, I ask, therefore, for a statement on Amendment III, on Amendments IV, VIII, XI, IVX, XV and XVIII. Here, I'm pulling the others. If I have to do it again, then just for technical reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19666	Thank you for your constructive proposal. A colleague, Huskić, answered for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19667	Mr. Chairman, I answered my word a long time ago, but this technique seems real,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19668	Here I am looking at the technique, so I've been begging everyone to sign up, so without the intention of seeing anyone sooner, someone later, so my colleagues get mad at me, I wouldn't want you to believe me anyway. And then it's best that the technique says, 44
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19669	Okay. I am reporting here both as a member of the Commission and as an MP. I agree with all my colleagues from the Commission who have said that we have worked very seriously. I'm really also, I think I've worked very seriously on this law. We've had a lot of meetings, a lot of people have participated, and in the end, I'm being honest, I don't even know who the amendments were anymore, or what they are, now at this point means I just can't follow. But we don't really think there's anything else we can do right now but vote. If we return now, I, just to remind you, a colleague of komisija President Jovanović, was not at the 63rd session when we talked but on 62nd we were very close to passing the law and then he, in order to extend more, made it possible to actually give additional amendments, proposed to extend the amendment phase in 7 days and then came a new wave of amendments from people who had already submitted amendments. So there was more chance than it would have been normal. If we're gonna do this again, we're gonna keep going, I don't know how far this one would go anymore. sobzir what Mr Hadžić said, that the application of the law would be delayed for 6 months, that we had agreed on the Commission now with the ministry that we would do these 20 sublegal acts, that the Commission would also actively participate in the making of these sublaws, so we agreed, I do not see other possibilities and I think it is most correct to make a statement today and to adopt the law and, in the meantime, to correct it because, if we were to simplify it, we would only send a bad message, that Parliament does not want to adopt the law again and so we have heard the remarks in the media. I mean completely unsettled, but I think today would be the same attitude. So I suggest we adopt rather than what the Commission has accepted so far, what it is not and what possibly has mistakes and certainly has them. In these six months, I think it can be fixed and we have the law. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19670	Thank you. Dr. Sead Avdić picked up the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19671	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll do it for a while. I think the situation is clear in the sense that we can simply go to a statement about this law. Namely, one controversy needs to be removed first. This means, I propose to the College that these controversy over these OHR signatures and memos really in direct contact and communication, the College and representatives of OHR debates in the coming days or weeks. That's one. Under two, this law is, for this law is until Parliament declares itself to this law, the authorising officer responsible, i.e. The Council of Ministers. Which means, the Council of Ministers should give a really Mr. Ministers a response, whether these dozens of amendments, 150 interventions to the law, to a law that we do not have in the integrated text with amendments, as counterpart Živković says, is simply possible for adoption and whether these 150 interventions, violates the uniformity of the law, its usefulness, efficiency and all of the other principles of the laws originally drawn up by the 45 Council of Ministers? So, whether these amendments, interventions are disrupting the simple efficiency and simple objective of this law, that's quite important, so that we can adopt it without any consolidated text and simply more from the point of view. When Parliament declares this law, then Parliament is responsible for this law of people. Which means that both homes are responsible, in this context, whether its useful value is questionable. Is it possible to implement it under question? Whether or not to be implemented etc. Well, these are really issues that we have to take into account. We are responsible for the law after the ruling on this law, and until then, the Proposer, the Council of Ministers. And in that context, he must give his opinion of everything that has happened with the law. That's below two. I think that we could go from the point of view of the legislation today and in this context only with one more of my third proposals, which is that today it is said that the sublegal ac will define the conditions, the way, the methodology, the organisation, the passing of driving exams. This is not the subject of this law, it should be required to simply implement this part of the project by means of a sublegal act over the next 6 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19672	I thank Dr. Avdić. A colleague named Nenad Mišić came forward for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19673	Dear Chairman, fellow Members, since I am a member of the Commission, I would just like to say a few sentences. Every commission, except yesterday, I wasn't because I had problems, I couldn't come from a health care center in the family. This commission has worked so hard on this law, along with the representatives of the ministry and the 150-year-old intervention itself, as far as they're concerned, are saying how much this law needs this country and these citizens. And we are not really adopting this law today, regardless of all the small ones, if I can call small remarks, we are humiliating the complete Parliament, the promoter and the Commission and ourselves per person we are all humiliating. Here's everyone, speaking to the members of the Commission, I first heard and called it, I think Živković says, have you seen the diary, presented the Commission on the diary, followed the Commission and represented us professionally whether we are competent to decide this, on such a law. Why only this commission on the diary, speak as much as we've done with this law as it is best for the citizens. So, no commission has been so publicly commented so far, but the Transport and Communications Commission. And please nice colleagues, respecting all these remarks, I'm against any delay. As far as 150 interventions are concerned, here's the take as a member of the Commission, nothing broke, it just fixed the law. And I think, this proposal by Novaković, if it is necessary for this break, we will also make it possible to agree on the Commission's members and who is all competent here from the ministry, but this law today does not pass the shame of this parliament. Thank you very much. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19674	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. And, Minister Dokić, there are more registered debaters if he can. I don't have Mr. Zorić, I'm really sorry. I don't have a keyboard, I don't have a reason, and I'm begging you, I don't have a reason especially for you. I have no reason for anyone, to give, no, no, no, no, no, now I have Vinko Zorić. I've got a keyboard, now I don't. There's Martin next door. I don't have a reason to really apologize, so if anyone suspects here, let them sit down, let them follow.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19675	I doubt it, but I signed up.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19676	I've got you now, but I didn't have you on the keyboard, so I'm saying I'm out. I've got Vinko Zorić on the keyboard now. Here you go, Mr. Zorić. I'm really sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19677	Okay, uh,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19678	Here I am asking you to help me, I really have no reason, especially according to
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19679	You provoked me and it will affect the quality of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19680	Don't, won't.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19681	I have received a report from the Commission since 25 July, which reads on the second page under d) at the 17th session held on 9 and 13 June, and on 7 July 2005, following a debate on the results of the public hearing, in the basic legislative procedure of the commission phase following the general and discussion of the details, most of the votes supported the principles of the proposed law and adopted amendments tabled by MPs, Adem Huskić, Selim Bešlagić, Momčilo Novaković, Vinko Zorić. I won't read any more. I am very pleased that my law has been passed and I ask that this, my amendment and that this be entered into the minutes and then we will ask the Commission and the competent ministry why they have not implemented my amendment under the law. So, if this is the Commission's report exactly, and it is, because they adopted the amendments yesterday, the minutes, I'm asking that my amendment, which I'm holding here, and you've all got it, implements it into the law, and nothing more. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19682	I thank my colleague Zorić. Is there anyone else here for the discussion? No more discussion. I'm closing the debate, ladies and gentlemen, no matter what the pause. I ask Minister Dokić that, to clarify if he has a need but not to challenge the replica and after two hours we have returned to the beginning in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to plead on amendments and on the law. Here you go, Professor Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19683	Thank you, Chairman. I felt the need for the last discussion, just to say, that in the part where the amendments were adopted, I think 77 and that intervention by the Transport and Communication Commission were adopted, that they were fully in the spirit of the basic concept proposed by the Council of Ministers. From that point of view, we do. Secondly, I would like to stress that this law and all the laws of the Ministry of Communications and Transport that you have received so far, and which you will receive while I am a minister, no one knows how long I will be, were made in the Ministry of Communications and Transport, in collaboration with OHR's representatives, when they suggested them. So, they all came like that, and that's how it's gonna be. My deputy reminded me and I didn't tell you before, I had another intervention with OHR, on September 27th, before we sent the law to the Council of Ministers and said, if there was no one in the next 15 days, we would go to the procedure and we would go. It's been working for a long time, and a lot of people are involved. I am pleased to have included the Security Council for Transport of the RS which I formed while I was doing this job in Banja Luka and here's the thing, and I hope to form a Transport Safety Council at BiH level. And everyone will be included in these regulations. That's very important, and that's what I want to tell you. If any of you MPs outside the Communications and Transport Commission want to participate in some regulation, please sign in. As soon as you pass the law, we'll go into procedure, we'll form working groups, there'll be more because there are more regulations, we'll work on those acts because they're just as important as this law. But we can't work on them until we have the law. So, once again, here's the answer to Professor Avdić, what has been adopted so far is in spirit, the concept of what the Council of Ministers has proposed. These are repairs.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19684	I would like to thank Professor Dr. Branko Dokić. Vinko Zorić was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19685	Yeah, I said what I had to say. The Commission can't and the Ministry can't change my amendment. He can say no. He can say he's unacceptable, but I'm reading in the Commission's report, I didn't have one amendment. I read in the report that my amendment was accepted but when I read the consolidated text I see that it was not accepted. And that's why I'm asking, what did we do from last time to today, that 48 last time, let's say that last time we couldn't make a statement, and today we can and nothing between that happened. We also asked for the last time to see the consolidated text and to respect the 25.7. minutes where it says that my interdepartments were adopted. And I'm not looking for anything else. But it can't be in the second text. I didn't take it in the other one. The Commission cannot have its amendment. Is that what I let the Commission do?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19686	Please allow Mr. Zorić to speak. Miloš Jovanović. I beg you to conclude with replicas. We had an exhaustive discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19687	Oh, let me help. So, the essence of Mr Zorić's amendment. If it means, wherever the entities say, the competent, or organs cantonal, we've said the competent authorities. So now there's no member of that and cantons. So we've adopted that amendment, but it says competent. He's not writing to the entity, he's writing to the competent authorities. And under the authority of the authorities, we said what was right. So we didn't tell the members, but we said it means what's meant by the authorities. Well, no, but if every member didn't write to the entities, we'd say what the authorities were.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19688	I thank my colleague Jovanović. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a suggestion but please help me. We had an exhaustive discussion. If you appreciate the break, I'll take a break. I'm afraid not. I think we've come to the point of pleading by amendments specifically and on the law in particular. Momo Novaković asked for a break, if he insists I can't give it away, although I think it would be good if we continued to work, to finish this law, to plead on the amendments. Do you insist on taking a break, Momčilo? Time out for 15 minutes. Please let us take a break so that we can conclude the debate. We're going to a plea. We're going back to work. [[PAUZA]] Is there a need for colleague Novaković, to explain for the request for a break or not? There isn't. Thank you. Let's move on. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded the debate. Wait a minute, colleague Majkić. So, we've come to the point of declaring ourselves on the amendments. I thank my colleague Ćeman, he has given up part of the amendment, for some insisting. If the applicants of the amendment think that there are amendments that are very important, of which they cannot give up, I ask that if there are any more applicants of the amendment that want to give up, they would make a great contribution not to waste too much time on the vote, if we do not have to approach the vote by amendment, in order that they are submitted. But before that, colleague Majkić, here you go. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19689	I would like first of all to say, it is my last sentence to say here, that by adopting this law, the citizens of BiH will not have an internationally recognised driver's license. I'm not saying, don't get me wrong, I'm not talking about a document that we show in transit, but I'm talking about a document that we need to nostifify if we're staying abroad for six months longer than six months and we need to replace it for national. In order to replace it, we will have to take a driving test because in basic matters, when it comes to this law, the EU directives are not respected. That's the last sentence.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19690	Thank you. We've closed the debate. I beg you, may I ask and if I knew this was going to be an open debate, that I knew there was going to be an open debate, I thought there was a voting procedure. I'm asking you, only if there's a voting procedure, Mr. Andrić, can you,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19691	Since we have just established that Mr Zorić's amendment has been adopted, I can therefore withdraw Amendment I as in that case.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19692	I thank my colleague Andrić. We're going to make a statement in order. The first are Mr. Mirsad Ćeman's amendments. You have the amendments on you, do you need me to read them? Mirsad Ćeman insisted that we vote on Amendment III. Who's in favour of accepting the amendment, in fact, to vote for Amendment III to Mr. Ćeman? Vote now. So, for six against 16, abstentions six, I konstatovati Amendment III to Mr. Ćeman not accepted. We're going to vote on Amendment IV to Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 8 for, 15 against, 5 abstentions, I konstatovati Amendment IV to Mr. Ćeman not accepted. We declare amendment VIII to Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. Prepare to vote. Now, eat. For 9, 16 versus, 7 abstentions, I konstatovati that neither Amendment VIII to Mr. Ceman has been accepted. 50 We move to a statement on amendment XI to Mr. Mirsasd Ćeman. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 11, versus 13, 8 abstentions, so neither has this amendment, been accepted. We're moving on to a statement on amendment XIV to Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So for 10, against 17, abstention 6, I konstatovati that this amendment is also not accepted. We're pleading on Amendment XV if that's right, Mr. Ćeman. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 9, against 13, 8 abstentions, so this amendment is not accepted. We declare Mr. Ćeman's amendment. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 8, versus 16, nine abstentions, I konstatovati that this amendment has not been adopted. We have completed the procedure for declaring the amendments submitted by the MP, Mr Mirsad Ćeman. We move on to a statement on Mr. Adem Huskić's amendments. We declare the amendment and Mr. Adem Huskić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 10 for, 14 against, 6 abstentions, so no amendment number and Mr. Adem Huskić was accepted. We move on to the Declaration on Amendment II, withdrawing the other amendments. I thank my colleague Huskić. We're going to make a statement on Mr. Milorad Živković's amendments. He only has one amendment. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 13 for, 17 against, 3 abstentions, I find this amendment and Mr. Živković is not accepted. 51 We move to a statement on Mrs Dušanka Majkić's amendments. Prepare to vote, we vote on Amendment I. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 1 v, 6 abstentions, I konstatovati that the amendment and Mrs Dušanka Majkić were not accepted. Prepare to vote on Amendment II, Mrs Dušanka Majkić. Vote now. By 7, 21 against, 2 abstentions, I konstatovati Amendment II not accepted. Prepare to vote on Amendment III, Mrs Dušanka Majkić. Vote now. For 9, 21 versus, 1 abstention, Amendment III to Mrs Dušanka Majkić was not accepted. We move on to an amendment IV statement. Prepare to vote. Vote now. By 7.26 against, 2 abstentions, I konstatovati Amendment IV not accepted. Prepare to vote on the amendment to Mrs Dušanka Majkić. Vote now. 7 for, 25 against, 3 abstentions, I find that this amendment is not accepted. Prepare to vote on amendment number VI of Mrs Dušanka Majkić. Vote now. 8 for, 24 against, 3 abstentions, I realize that this amendment has not been accepted. Prepare to make a statement on Amendment VII to Mrs Dušanka Majkić. Vote now. The vote was 9 against 22, 3 abstentions, and I konstatovati that this amendment has not been accepted. Prepare to make a statement on Amendment VIII. Vote now. For 5, 22 against, 3 abstentions, I konstatovati that this amendment is also not accepted. 52 In the end, prepare to vote on amendment IX Mrs Dušanka Majkić. Vote now. So for 5, 26 against, 1 abstention, I also konstatovati that Amendment IX is not accepted. That concludes the statement on Mrs Dušanka Majkić's amendments. We move to a statement on the amendments of Mr Filip Andrić and Martin Raguž. They gave up the amendment number and as far as I know.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19693	The fact that this amendment was adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19694	Adopted, yes. We move to an amendment II statement. Prepare to vote. Vote now. By 7, versus 22, 7 abstentions, I konstatovati Amendment II not accepted. Prepare to declare Amendment III. Vote now. For 8, v. 18, abstention 8, I konstatovati Amendment III not accepted. Prepare to declare Amendment IV. Vote now. For 7, versus 20.8 abstentions, no amendment was accepted. Prepare to vote on Amendment V. Vote now. A, V is adopted. V and X, I haven't recorded here, I'm sorry. We therefore do not declare ourselves on Amendment V.. izjašnjavati declare Amendment VI. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 8, 20 against, 6 abstentions, he did not pass this amendment. Prepare to declare Amendment No VII. Vote now. For 8, against 19, 6 abstentions, I konstatovati that this amendment is not accepted either. 53 Prepare to vote on Amendment VIII. Vote now. By 7, versus 17.5 abstentions, this amendment has not been accepted either. Prepare to vote on Amendment IX. Vote now. For 9, versus 17.4 abstentions, this amendment was not accepted either. We have completed the procedure for declaring Mrs. ruža Sopta and Mr. Martin Raguž's amendments. Is there any more amendments?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19695	No more.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19696	We didn't get any more amendments in the procedure, and now, ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on to a statement on the law as a whole. I call, Adem Huskić, here you go, Adem.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19697	Let me just suggest one conclusion before the vote, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19698	Please don't, we've entered the plea procedure. Please don't make it any more difficult for us to do business. If I may ask.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19699	No, it won't make it harder, I don't think it'll make it harder.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19700	Let's close the voting procedure on the law, and then we'll conclude.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19701	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19702	So, please prepare to vote on the law just a little bit, so let's make a statement on the proposal for a bill on the security of traffic on the roads in the second reading. 54 Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 27.5 against, 3 abstentions, 17 from Federation 10 from the RS for. I find this law passed in a second reading. So, we're done passing the law. Please, Mr. Huskić, if the conclusion that he's proposing is not practice and procedure when the law is passed but let's hear the conclusion, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19703	The conclusion is on what we are, what we were saying in the discussion and what you said, just to formalize it. So, on behalf of the Club, I propose that we adopt, on behalf of the Party for BiH Club, I propose that we reach a conclusion next; given the conditions and the way this law is passed, the Parliamentary House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is in charge of the resolution ministry to prepare, within 6 months, any amendments and amendments to the law as usual,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19704	Don't, so we just passed the law, we propose changes and additions. They'll tell the public that we are,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19705	He won't say,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19706	...by sending a message that we've passed a bad law, if they show up missing, the Council will. I think at least. But here, please, you've heard the conclusion, to be clear. What can I do? Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 14, against 12.7 abstentions, RS has no majority, no entity majority. Are we gonna get along right now and finish the vote or are we gonna leave later? Here's his consent. So we vote against who's from RS? We have to vote, repeat, yes I don't agree. Here we go again. No, I mean, because I said if we passed the law, it makes sense. Please, let's go finish the voting procedure until the end. 55 Who is from, therefore prepare for the vote. They vote against the RS because it doesn't have most of the entity? 8, he doesn't have enough majority. It takes 10 to make the conclusion fall. So Mr. Adem Huskić's conclusion was accepted. We have to work in a scale with the procedure. Let's go to point five, Ad.5. The proposal for a law on the BiH Emigration Matika, the first reading of the Bill's proposal, was delivered to the House on 9 May 2005. He was considered in a regular procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 3 June 2005. The Commission for Human Rights and Immigration of Refugees and Asylum is responsible, a report by the committee responsible was delivered on 27 July 2005. Of course you got the report. You saw the Commission adopt two amendments. In the plenary phase, we have 10 amendments to Mrs. Perkanović, noting that this is the law in the first reading. And I'm opening a debate. He's reporting for the word Mr. Zorić, of course I've got him on the keyboard. Mr. Zorić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19708	I, on behalf of the HDZ Club, Demokršćanin looking for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19709	At the request of the HDZ Club, the Demokršćanin, paused for half an hour. So, I'm asking you to start at 2:00. Take the chance to have lunch. I suggest we get back to work. [[PAUZA]] We've extended this break a little bit, I hope you've had lunch, rested, and we'll work intensively. My colleague, Vinko Zorić, asked for a break. Is there any need to explain? There isn't. So, ladies and gentlemen, we're on the fifth item of the agenda. This is the proposal for a law on the BiH Emigration Matika. The proposal for this law was submitted on 9 May 2005. He was considered in a regular procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission has delivered its views. You've got it on the table. You have seen that the Commission has adopted two amendments and in the plenary phase we have 10 amendments to Mrs Mare Perkanović. We're in first reading. I'm opening a debate on this law. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Momčilo Novaković, I'm just asking you to sign up I said on, no you're not registered. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19710	Mr. Chairman, I must say that one of the amendments tabled by our colleague, Mrs. Perkanović, actually refers to the principles of the law itself, and that is why I will, first of all, take into account the non-discipline of certain solutions in the law itself. In fact, the law foresees the possibility that the queens of the emigrants are also established at the level of the municipalities. And it wouldn't have been too controversial if he hadn't made it impossible for them to form at the level of the entity and at the level of the canton. And now there is a serious question as to what motivated the legislator to propose such a possibility and not leave or not suggest this alternative. I would not enter these motives now, but for this very reason as well as some other minor ones, we will not support the principles of this law and we believe that the report should be returned to the Commission and that the Commission will once again look at Mrs Perkanović's amendments in order to allow the adoption of the same legislation to pass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19711	I thank my colleague Novaković. Who's moving on? Mirsad Ćeman signed up for his word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19712	My colleagues and colleagues, I'll be very brief. I was in an earlier attempt to pass this law, I had an intention and something was getting more active. This time I have sincerely left my intention to see how others will do it, and I must say that I am not satisfied with this bill or with the interventions that the committee responsible has done on the Council of Ministers proposed the text of the law. Conceptually, but of course only for other reasons, I do not agree with the fact that in BiH we should now have at all levels how only one can understand from this text the special queen. I suppose we have and should have a category of emigrants from BiH with which the state and its institutions should also have through this specific channel such as the queen, the appropriate co-operation and predict the malts not, in municipalities, cantons etc. the formation of the queen, if at least I hadn't understood it well, the formation of some departments and some assets, some forms of activity of the BiH Emigrant Mother, that would have been acceptable. So, so predicting both at municipal and cantonal levels and so on, for me, it's really not acceptable from that point, as an important principle of this law, it's not acceptable for me. I don't see any reason, of course, to form a queen of emigrants by entities. We really should at least try to radiate one climate, so from this parliament that needs to function as a single institution, and to BiH citizens abroad, as one society that will work to connect these, people respecting always, it is understood and should highlight all specificities and all differences, but all these people outside have one category, they are people outside BiH with whom this state and its institutions should have appropriate co-operation. And let the modality be this, in all that color which should be affirmed what is positive, be found. 57 So, to conclude, I do not think that neither the Council of Ministers' proposal nor the interventions of the committee in charge of this legislative solution in the right direction, and I am expressing very large reserves in this regard and I do not think I can support this bill either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19713	I thank my colleague, Ćeman. The word is Mr. Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19714	First,... in Article 4 of this Law it was intended to be possible to form areas for one or more municipalities or cantons, and I am respecting exactly this fact that they have spoken, said that here we should delete the word – cantons, because I agree that for example. in Doboj Municipality, it could be the Emeritus of Doboj Municipality as an outpost, because we have Doboj-South, Doboj-East, Doboj City and I thought the municipalities were both in entity and in RS. And that's why I suggested that we delete the word - cantons, with the leftovers of the BiH emigrants the possibility of forming here, I say community at the level of several municipalities, which is unfortunately not accepted and for these reasons I also believe that this law should perhaps be reconsidered.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19715	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. Mara Perkanović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19716	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will also look back on this law, on the principles on which it is based, how it is arranged. Indeed, I am more than disappointed that the constitutional hierarchy is not respected in this country in the making of the law, and I think it is high time to do well and to develop good interrelations both among the peoples who are in BiH and all citizens, to respect above all the constitutional category of arrangement of the internal arrangement of BiH and when making the law to take into account the hierarchy of the arrangement. This will certainly be better for the functioning of all the laws we are passing because it will be more acceptable for everyone and with far more success will be implemented to the periphery and I think it is the only way BiH is in a better, brighter future and better human relations. And therefore, the basic remark that I have made in the amendments is to avoid giving importance in the constitutional arrangement, where entities are a constitutional category and bringing and giving importance even to municipal levels, which is absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19717	I thank my colleague Perkanović. Who's next to the word? Elvir Jahić, please. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19718	Madam Chairman, I'd like to say a few words about the debate we had on the committee responsible on this matter. In fact, you see here that we have two or three views of the bar as far as this organization is concerned, the internal organization of the Emerald Mother. I think, however, that this is a significant step forward and that there are a lot of elements of good in this law, although I agree with some segments, but I think it should be a matter of compromise. Here, you could see that on one side we therefore have to ask that the malts not every level of government in BiH can form a queen of emigrants. On the other hand, we ask that it remain only for the BiH state, so that all and municipalities be abolished, etc. If we don't have a wish for a compromise, let's do something, so we won't pass this law. This is the proposal that came from the Council of Ministers. I, therefore, also have a very similar opinion as Mr. Ćeman. So, but it won't work. So here we're talking, we're trying to find some compromise solution, and I think that's what this is all about. So, it's not the most ideal thing, but that's what we had on the board. Surely, then, if something goes by on the commission, that we have an entity, it won't go through this one, I don't think it'll go through at Parliament as well. So, let's take a step and not idealize things. I think this is a good thing, so this is being told to the Matika of the BiH emigrants, and it would be best if only that queen really remained so that we don't go to the municipalities, to the cantons and so on. But here, we've received a proposal from the Council of Ministers that's agreed on in the way it's agreed and there, and you know how it agrees with the Council of Ministers, and here, I suggest that we adopt in this form, although I say, it's not the happiest solution, but it's much better than what we have now.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19719	Thank you. Who's on the phone for the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate, and I suggest that you prepare to state the law in the first reading. Prepare to vote for the law in the first reading. Vote now. For, please,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19720	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19721	You're asking us to vote again. Please repeat the vote. So, get ready to vote. Vote now. For 17, against 14, abstention 6. So we don't have an entity majority. We'll leave this to work. We won't leave for the next session. 59 So, ladies and gentlemen, we will bring it together and at the next session we will inform the House and adopt it. Moving to the sixth item of the agenda, that's Ad.6. The draft law on tobacco BiH, with the Constitutional and Legal Commission report, legislators Zlatko Lagumdžija and Jozo Križanović and Selim Bešlagić, the draft law was submitted to the parliamentary procedure on 31 January 2005. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 17 February 2005 and supported the constitutional and legal basis for the adoption of this law. On 5 April, the College of Constitutional Law received a request for an extension of the deadline for consideration as the Commission decided to request a statement from the Council of Ministers on the proposal for this law. The College approved the extension of the deadline, so on 8 January 2005, it submitted a report on the draft tobacco law. At that time, the Commission adopted the draft law and adopted 5 amendments. The Commission found that the Council of Ministers did not deliver its opinion. At the 59th session, we had this bill in our first reading. At that time, the resorient minister requested that the draft tobacco law be postponed until the Council of Ministers considered the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations delivered to them. On a proposal from the Minister of Foreign Trade, Dom adopted a conclusion setting a 15-day deadline for the competent commission to submit a new report on the draft law on tobacco, taking into account the opinion of the Council of Ministers on the draft law and possibly a new amendment. In the review, the Constitutional and Legal Commission had the opinion of the Council of Ministers, so on July 27th, it submitted a report on the draft law on tobacco which did not support the principles of the draft law and concluded that the conditions for the continuation of the legislative procedure had not been met. We, in line with the House's conclusion, now have a debate on the Commission's report, which is negative. I'll remind you that we are on the terms of points 2 and 3 of that conclusion. Point 2. – if Dom accepts the report of the committee responsible, the proposed law is considered rejected. If the report is not accepted, the House will ask the Commission to draw up a new report based on the new guidelines set by the House, which it concludes. I am opening a debate on the Constitutional and Legal Commission's report on the draft tobacco law. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19722	So, very briefly on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I think the report is clear. The Commission therefore, not to be longer, only when it first considered as a competent commission of this law, was it able to consider this without the presence and arguments of the Council of Ministers. So, correctly referring to the whole problem, she took a stand. When we got and at the conclusion of this home, therefore some of the pirates of the elaborates by the Council of Ministers and with the presence of the mandated Council of Ministers, 60 commissions, as you have seen, have assessed that, while respecting what the Council of Ministers has said, there is a need to give the Council of Ministers a chance to take a look at this issue from all aspects, so including everything that is said here, it concluded that this, however, the principles of the law are not acceptable and here, I only repeat once again, we suggest that this report be adopted, so that the principles be delayed and that it is practically not accepted, and that this practically means the call and the obligation of the Council of Ministers to simply address this problem very thoroughly, and that if we may receive a complete bill from this region which would naturally appreciate what is good in this law, which the colleagues have already been put into it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19723	Thank you, Mr. Križanović, for his word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19724	Respecting this fact that we've had lunch with the break and that we've had a little bit of this, I'm not really going to be long, but I think it's very important that before we approach the vote, let's remind ourselves of some other moments that isn't chairing here, he's exposed everything. I can only remind you that we delivered this law to Parliament 31.1. of this year, that means 7 months ago, that the Council of Ministers twice, on the request by Parliament to show itself about the proposed law, did not manifest until before let me say, full... months until a month ago when this law was already adopted at this house, after having received unanimous support from all the members of the Commission. You see, in a letter that had the power to judge the Commission's decision as it is, there was a letter from the Council of Ministers saying in the initial section, that it should pass the law, that the law is necessary for BiH, that it contributes to the arrangement of the economic space common, to promote domestic production, to protect domestic production, to protect domestic tobacco varieties etc. In the second part of the letter, it is said that the constitutional basis of this law is now being questioned, so it would be rational for de, after 8 months of debate in Parliament, to form a working group, to look at the constitutional basis, so if it comes to all being fine, then to create a working group in which one of the pre-legislators will be involved, and hence, the date of establishment of the working group will be completed in 3 months. And in a year we'll be in a situation here to discuss this law. Yesterday, when we discussed BiH's trade exchange, the ratio of exports and imports of drinks and tobacco to BiH was found to be 1:16. Whoever has the patience to read this law, we have determined that by applying this law, we would well stimulate domestic tobacco production primarily to plant tobacco, domestic tobacco processing to build this tobacco into domestic cigarettes and thus already achieve one of the measures that the Council of Ministers intends to take to reduce trade imbalances. 61 I really just want to express one of my dissatisfaction. I fully appreciate the need to consult the Council of Ministers on any legislative proposal coming from the MPs. But the Council of Ministers' relationship to this has proved that they have not been manifested for half a year on this bill. And now, when MPs without that opinion, fully unanimously in the Commission, conclude that the proposed law should be passed, only a month after that, with a letter from the Council of Ministers, we come to a situation that completely brings us back to the beginning. I just want to say about the Commission's opinion that we have no intention of, of course, taking part in this task force that would eventually be formed if the Commission's opinion were accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19725	I thank my colleague Križanović. The word has Dušanka Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19726	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, this report by the Commission shows all the grief we must admit when we read these things that in an important document that needs this country, we have been discussing for so long. So from 31.1. when, with respect for the efforts made by colleagues from the SDP Parliament Club, they made to pass a bill of this kind, and with all the objections that could go to the expense of this law, whether or not it was good, whether instead of one being three laws, one being a tobacco law, the other being a law on tobacco processing and the third being a law on the transport of tobacco products, I think they still made one effort to get a law that does not exist. What the Council of Ministers has shown, as so far the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, they do not otherwise have the obligation to have minimum respect for this paragraph, so they did not feel that a word should be answered on this subject. After so much time, it is concluded that a commission should be formed, and be careful, please, as a deadline for the completion of the work group, a period of 3 months has been set since its establishment and no word of it shall be indicated when it will be formed. In this year, 2005 there will be no draft law by the Council of Ministers. So I ask you, and I cannot, my first view is that I cannot support such a report by the Commission and that I believe that this way, as this example, shows an infinite amount of responsibility of the Council of Ministers to this House of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19727	I thank my colleague, Majkić. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the hearing, ladies and gentlemen. Prepare to make a statement, therefore, on the Commission's Report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 23, against 13, abstentions none. Therefore, the Commission's report has been adopted and therefore, this law is considered to be rejected. 62 Moving to the seventh item of the agenda, Add.7. Proposal for a framework law on higher education with the Constitutional and Legal Commission Report, proposed by Mr Momčilo Novaković Kolega Novaković, submitted a proposal for a law on 13 May 2005, with a request for consideration under Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the House. At the 58th session of the House, the request for emergency proceedings was not accepted, so the draft law is considered in the ordinary procedure. On 3 June, the Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered an opinion to the Constitutional and Legal Committee on 3 June establishing that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. It is also a nadkežni constitutional-legal commission, whose report we received on July 27th this year. The Constitutional and Legal Commission report you received. As you have seen, the Constitutional and Legal Commission has not accepted the principles, the proposal for this law, and has found that there are no conditions for the continuation of the legislative procedure on the Proposal for a Law on Higher Education. We have, therefore, a procedure like in the previous act. So we're discussing and deciding on the Constitutional and Legal Commission's report. I'm opening a debate on the report. Who's answering for a word? Momčilo Novaković, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19728	I thank Mr. Chairman, I'm not going to talk about the law, I was talking about this, at one of the previous sessions, but I appreciate what I'm proposing, and it's mine, and it's just my assessment that the Commission has not sufficiently looked at all aspects of this law. I believe that, in the beginning, the principles of this law have not been accepted, in fact, we have not actually entered into any particular objection to this law, and that is why I express my position but also the position of the club. We will be against the Commission's Report with a desire to allow debate on this law on the Commission, i.e. to give the Commission additional time to look at all aspects of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19729	I thank my colleague Novaković. Who's next to the word? Mirsad Ćeman, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19730	Kolega Novaković is a member of the Constitutional Commission and is also a legislator of the law, and I am looking for a short delay in signing up before him to say, also on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, we wrote what we wrote, the Commission's decision is what it is, that is, the position. I usually advocate that especially in a situation like this when it's a negative opinion of the principles to be arguments. I just called to say that the reason why the joke is of course in the Commission is because most of it was decided this way, this argument was contained in the Council of Ministers act that the Commission had in mind when it decided this way. Therefore, this is what could be done in favour of the Commission’s argument as to why it did not accept the principles as briefly as possible. 63 We did not consider it necessary to draw it back here now because we all received that letter from the Council of Ministers. On behalf of the Commission, I can only say, regardless of the decision being taken, or the position taken by the majority of votes, that we expect support for this position of the Commission and, of course, it is not unknown to this home that intensively not quickly enough is still working on the Bill proposal by the Council of Ministers and is likely that part of the ideas that counterpart Novaković has put into his proposal, they also find their place in this proposal. moža would really make sense, but it wasn't the only reason, or at all, why the Commission took this position, because when we have more laws in the procedure, then this, in many ways, complicates the statement, and I can only say, I will support the Commission's position, and that means that principles are not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19731	Thank you. Who's next to the word? I don't have any registered debaters. I'm closing the debate. I urge you to prepare for the vote, who is in favour of accepting, who is therefore to vote on the Commission report, excuse me. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 19, versus 11, 2 abstentions. We don't have a majority from the RS. We remain to agree, and as at the previous point at the next session, we will submit a report. Thank you. We're finishing the seventh item of the agenda. Moving to the eighth point of the agenda, Add.8. The SDP MPs' initiative to form a Commission committee to bring together the text of the BiH State Anthem, with the report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, the SDP MPs' club, submitted the initiative in the parliamentary procedure on 14 February 2005. At the 59th session, the House of Representatives discussed the Constitutional and Legal Commission Report, which at that time did not support the proposal for an initiative to establish a Committee for the adoption of the text of the national anthem. The House adopted a conclusion returning the initiative to the Commission for further consideration and delivery of a new report. The new report was submitted by the Commission on 25.7.2005, from which you saw that the Commission supported the proposal for an initiative to set up a Commission Committee for the adoption of the text of the BiH State Anthem. I'm opening an initiative debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Let's make sure this initiative is accepted. Prepare for, in conclusion, yes, yes, to vote on the Commission report, whether the initiative is accepted, yes. On the Commission's report, which adopted the initiative to establish 64 commissions. I didn't have one, Mr. Križanović was reported on display, but there's no need, we'll come out, only if you think the story will affect the statement, I don't mind, it is voted for by the Commission's report because the Commission has accepted the initiative. Well, of course, because that means each other. Please prepare for the vote. Yes, prepare to vote, vote now. I'm asking you to repeat, since I voted, it's not okay to vote, please we'll repeat the vote. So, get ready to vote. Vote now, no technique registered well. In 22, 7 against, 4 abstentions. We don't have a majority from the RS. It's just that we're gonna get along, so we're gonna get along just like we did at the last point. Next session, just like the last act. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda, that's Ad.9. A report on the work of the Administrative Commission of the House of Representatives for the period 1.1 to 30.6.2005 You have received a report on the work of the Administrative Commission for the appointed period. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Let's make a statement. Prepare to vote on the report on the work of the Administrative Commission. Vote now. I agree that we unanimously accepted the report on the work of the Administrative Commission for the period 1.1 to 30.6.2005. We're going to the 10th point of the agenda, that's A.10. The interpretation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives on the request of the Constitutional and Legal Commission of the Constitutional and Legal Committee has provided the College of the House of Representatives with a request for interpretation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure in the sense that competent committees should conduct a debate on draft laws for which the Constitutional and Legal Commission has not given a favourable opinion on the constitutional and legal basis for the adoption and compliance with the Constitution of BiH. You have received an interpretation in which no consensus has been reached in the College of the House. In accordance with Article 20(2), a decision shall be taken by the House in the event that a consensus has not been reached in the College. I'm opening a debate on the interpretation you've received. As a matter of fact, I need the House to plead. Who's calling? Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, please. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19732	So the problem is clear. He's a legal procedural nature and I'm not speaking here on behalf of the Constitutional Commission, but as a member of this House. Indeed, the Commission has raised a question that seems quite logical at first sight. If the Constitutional Commission is to give an expert opinion, a legal opinion on compliance with the Constitution and the legal system of the draft law, it may, of course, happen that the legislator and the Constitutional Commission and Parliament have different legal views on this. And that's not the problem in itself. Procedurally, the problem is being raised, because then, depending on the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, we are being put in a position to address the issue and this Parliament as well. In my opinion, since yet the final assessment of laws, their adoption, etc. bring home and this is not about amendments which, as is known, when they are accepted on the constitutional committee, are incorporated into the text of the law, and can be challenged, since the final court on the law and the House at all, there is no reason to stop the procedure and even if the Constitutional Commission would sometimes say that there is no constitutional basis. In order for the paradox to be complete, we have recently had the fact that it is on the Constitutional Commission, some MPs voted against it, that there is a constitutional basis for amending the Constitution, of course motivated primarily by political reasons and not by legal reasons, because it could not at all be disputed that there was a constitutional basis for amending the Constitution, but for political reasons they voted against it. Which means that sometimes a political or legal approach is mixed, but here for me, I speak as a member of Parliament, there is no dilemma at all, the Constitutional Commission, and if, in some cases, in some cases, finds that there is no constitutional basis, this law should go further into the procedure of the competent committee, it should go to the House meeting which will then ultimately be decided. I would only be about this problem, in here we adopted the undersigned Rules of Procedure new, I don't know if it's potent, but it can be as suppressed as, say, when a negative opinion on principles is, the commission should explain more when the negative opinion is why it's negative, but when it's positive why it's positive, yes and in such cases the Constitutional Commission or one who contests that further argument as to why there may be no constitutional basis. Therefore, to conclude, my position is and I think that the Rules of Procedure are not unclear, and when the constitutional committee's negative position is very rare on the existence of a constitutional basis, it should go into further procedure, not stopping it. So, both on the board of directors and on the House. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19733	Thank you. Mr. Novaković picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19734	I thank Mr. Chairman, so we just had on the Commission, which is why we are here today discussing this because we had different views and completely contradictory views on this matter. 66, a member of our 84th Rules of Procedure, says the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission delivers its opinion to the chairman within 15 days of the adoption of the draft law. The chair shall immediately deliver an opinion to the committee responsible, taking a positive course of opinion, shall not deliver a negative opinion to the committee responsible. What made the assessment of some of us so that the promoter, or the one who worked on the Rules of Procedure, would have written to deliver this proposal to the chairman, the House, which would have made sense. And that's where we found ourselves in one walk. I still think today that the Constitutional and Legal Commission does not make sense and that this phase in the Rules of Procedure does not make any sense if after that, this decision can change the House, if we say that this commission is the one that makes its position on some issues. The second thing now is that in the commission's work at one session, the commission can bring one position, on the other, depends on how many members of the commission and from which entity, from which people, etc. It is now a second question, whether the commission is doing its job on the basis of an expert opinion or whether it has interference and political views. But it's not the subject of the Rules of Procedure. So it's a matter of real condition that happens. And I again want to state my opinion, that the Constitutional and Legal Commission, namely this phase in the Rules of Procedure or the phase in legislative activities, only makes sense if the position on the issue of the Constitutional and Legal Commission is final, is either positive or negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19735	I thank my colleague Novaković. Mr. Džaferović, vice-president, for his word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19736	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have so far been in the two-and-a-half-year work of this House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and therefore there are several examples that when it comes to procedures, we make the passable power of this Parliament and its working bodies bigger. I would remind you that until we adopted the conclusion at this home, we had a completely reverse behaviour when negative reports of the committees were on Wednesday, because we felt that if the law did not receive support in the competent commission, that the law was considered down. This seemed, of course, illogical, especially illogical when it is known that it is excluded from the House that needs to make a decision and it is known that the decision-making process in the House is much more complex and complicated than in the commissions themselves, so we have defined ourselves for one case and today it is a practice, that and the negative reports of committees, together with the laws we have here in the House and that we are discussing them and that the final decision is taking this home. If this is done let's say, I now aimly logically, grammatically, language interpretation of the provision of Article 84 of our Rules of Procedure, and bring of course regarding the other provisions of this Rules of Procedure, I cannot help but draw the conclusion that in fact no working body, nor does the Constitutional and Legal Commission have the right to block for justified or unwarranted reasons, not even for the justified reasons of certain projects, but can do so this home. For this reason, Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure also states that 67 of the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission shall deliver its opinion to the chairperson within 15 days of the adoption of the draft law and the chair shall immediately deliver an opinion to the committee responsible. So there are two things here. If whoever brought this Rules of Procedure wanted to distinguish between a positive and a negative opinion, he would have done so, here in the Rules of Procedure itself. And, secondly, if he wanted to block the procedure, giving authority to the Constitutional and Legal Commission that when he found that there was no constitutional basis for a certain law, that he might consider that law rejected, he would do so here and would not order the chairman or the College to deliver the opinion, regardless of what it is, to the competent commission. I think that if we interpret at least the way I interpret the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, when we talk about the constitutional basis and the work of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, that just because it is a constitutional basis study, a certain law, it would not and cannot be given to the Constitutional and Legal Commission more powers than the other committees, because no matter what the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission is, the final decision will be made by this House and its opinion is relevant, of course, for the decision of all of us here, and finally for the BiH Constitutional Court. So, the commission appears as an expert body at a certain stage of the procedure after which there is a House that needs to make a final decision and there is a Constitutional Court of BiH that eventually calls upon someone who has the right to do so, can and should make a final decision. That is why I believe that we should remain consistent with the practice we have had in this house so far, especially when we have adopted that conclusion that the negative reports of the committees must come to this house, that we do not allow ourselves to be in a position to be blocked in a certain way by this Parliament's work. I will remind you that this committee, that the Constitutional Legal Commission, as well as all the committees in Parliament, are working on simpler procedures than this House does. We can get into a position and we've been in such situations, that simply a few colleagues say, we don't want to discuss it, leave the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and then there's no basis. We need to come to a position like the House that and when the committee in charge doesn't want to give an opinion, we need to discuss here in this room. We can't make it possible and that's not the intensity of whoever did the Rules of Procedure or who voted that one group of MPs who makes up the commission, 7.8 or 9 people can take the right, or the right to give it to her, to definitely decide on a legal project. This can be done by this home and by the Constitution of BiH, we are responsible for it as the highest legislative body in this country. So I'm saying this for both of us, of course, and for the commission and for the efficiency of our work. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19737	Thank you. A colleague, Beriz Belkić, called for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19738	It is clear who interprets the Rules of Procedure and, of course, we all have our own vision of this particular situation. For example, mine is similar to Jaferovic's, that this report should share the fate of other reports and that no commission, nor can the Constitutional and Legal Commission be an arbitration officer nor can the process be stopped definitely. So this hall here is where you should definitely decide on every legal project, even this one. 68 surprises men, and I actually want to suggest. I don't see any reason, absolutely no reason to make it impossible for us to treat this report as well as others, to open procedure, and absolutely every one of us has the right to have a relationship with any of these things, so even this amendment turns out, the procedures in both of these homes are of such nature, that anyone who thinks that this thing is not favourable to him and that he doesn't want it, and so on. And if he could seduce her under some national interest, he has instruments to stop her. And there's no reason for us to waste time on this business, so to speak to the misunderstandings or different interpretations. I'm simply asking you to let us go into procedure, let everyone plead, everyone has the right to think about it the way they think. And there's no reason to put the situation back on track, I don't want to comment anymore, I think it was really bad that we let it be estimated that there was no constitutional basis. We've had a thousand other ways to express our relationship with this project, not in a way that we claim something that's clear as day, but here, I'm asking that we go into the process of making a statement on the report, and that we plead on the fate of the report to move on, that we don't make any special situation with regard to other situations, although this is a really important, important, very important area, or an important act, but here we are able to get the strength to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19739	I thank my colleague, Belkić. I also share his opinion that every relationship will say by voting, that time should not be wasted, because if we could achieve agreement, we would achieve it. So the final word gives this house its statement. We can discuss three hours, I don't think anyone will move in their sights. So I think, if there is no direct need to give up the discussion because here, there is an interpretation of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, there is a position of the College and we have to plead. But I'm not taking anyone's word, I'm just asking you to sign up through technique and I'm asking your tech colleagues to see why I don't have a registered application on display. Please, whoever checked in, I don't have anyone's display and I see hands up, I see. Can you do it again, no, not again, I'm waiting for a registration but I don't have anyone. Dr. Gligorić, come in. I have to do this. Put your hands up. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19740	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we have now asked this question at the level of general matters. And then, it turns out we're right when we talk like that, and I can join my colleagues who have spoken in general. However, if we know how the Constitutional and Legal Commission works, that it is its primary responsibility to determine whether any law has constitutional basis, and if you say and mention a particular matter now, that it is a geomatics law, and that means that it is an exclusive of ethnic jurisdiction, and then if the Commission finds it indisputable, because it must be in agreement with the Constitution, then it should cease the work of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. But then there are various interpretations later with the desire to come to this situation that we have come to today. I'm just warning two things, if we keep this up and we make a precedent in terms of these arguments legally, then we'll come into a situation that we won't need to require a transfer of jurisdiction, because simply everything that's entity jurisdiction, someone to propose the law, and in that case we'll have 69 of this, through this procedure, a statement. It's not about entity protection and this mechanism, I'm not talking about it, but I'm talking about one possibility, one precedent, that we are in another position to decide in this House. And I just want to warn you. It's not a problem, it's a nice story in terms we need as well as other commissions, the report needs to get confirmation, etc. But if someone tells you that some law cannot go because it is contrary to the law, because it is an entity jurisdiction, in which case we can only go to the transfer of jurisdiction or change of the Constitution, etc. and not through the Constitutional and Legal Commission to bring this law here and to become fully active in terms of procedures, first, second reading, etc. I believe that this is the opposite of the Constitution and that the Constitutional and Legal Commission and our Rules of Procedure have the right to be contrary to the BiH Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19741	Thank you. Who's next to the word? A blanket, a replica. Please let the replica take you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19742	I must say, however, that a specific law has been proposed and was a defacto cause for this interpretation, does not give anyone the right to be exclusively bound by this law, this issue resolves. This question has been asked in principle, so I experience it. Today it is one law, tomorrow there can be another, about which there will be a dilemma and when there is no politics or politics, honest dilemmas of professional nature, whether or not there is a constitutional and legal basis. Therefore, we should view this question as a matter of principle, not binding it at all to any concrete proposal, but we cannot, of course, go beyond the fact that only one net law is proposed. kolega Džaferović and others said the final statement for the assessment of constitutionality, including from the aspect of the procedure, was the Constitutional Court. Therefore, when I was talking about supporting that neither the Constitutional Commission would be an obstacle to this House, so Parliament and not one of its segments, part of that final opinion, or even that subtle-law issue, I was speaking in favour of the affirmation of Parliament and not of its part, because let's let the Commission be in one way or another, regardless of what I am in that commission or another 10, it doesn't matter, really sometimes in the wrong vision of what the House in general would be, and this home could be wrong because, in the end of the case, the Constitutional Court, here it happened that it found that some laws were not constitutional. So, it's worth respecting the fact here that you should strive not to tie it up now, and that's why my replica of my colleague Gligorić is for any particular law. Let's use this as an opportunity and I will end up, to give ourselves an answer as to how to solve these issues in principle and on concrete things we will, of course, conflict, more or less well founded, more or less this, professionally justified, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19743	I'd like to thank my colleague, Ćeman. 70 Momčilo Novaković, replica. Is it a discussion or an envelope, Sejo? Well, wait, there's replicas, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19744	I apologize to my colleague Avdić. In fact, we seem to have moved from the legal sphere to the morals and the sphere of politics and everything but legal. So now, we say, here's what we're talking about at home, so we're going to talk about the affirmation of each MP, so we're going to talk about all the affirmations just not talking about constitutional law and the Rules of Procedure. Now I'm asking if we have and can we discuss something that is not in our jurisdiction? Can we even discuss something that is not in the jurisdiction of this house? What's in the jurisdiction of the entity? In this way, we introduce a practice that is not appropriate to a small door. I've been in this House for five years and here for five years this first time appeared a month or two ago. There's never been a dilemma in five years. No one has ever set this dilemma until about a month and a half ago. Someone remembered to put up a dilemma like this. Of course, each of us will plead obviously not from a legal position, but from a political and political point of view, because this has now become a political sphere and not a legal sphere. I have made it perfectly clear that I cannot or will support such an opportunity because it is not the same as the committee responsible. There are a lot of differences on the constitutional-legislative statement and on the clarification of the details of the law. There are great differences, especially when it comes to these responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19745	Thank you. Dr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19746	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think that we have absorbed this issue when we voted on the new Business House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. In this new Rules of Procedure after a wider debate, this was one of the issues that was very controversial and we took the final view that no one has the right to at least the auxiliary bodies such as the Commission, or any other body of Parliament, to stop the law. The law can only stop it or let it into the procedure only Parliament. So there's no one right, at least a committee that gives an opinion, where it's not said positively or negatively, to stop the law. The final word is Parliament. So the Commission's decisions are not binding or final. So if we figure that out, then the very clear position is formal-legal, simple of this question. In the new Rules of Procedure, we voted in favour of this concept, voted already, unanimously declared ourselves new Rules of Procedure. So, I understand colleague Novaković, part of the practice was that, and even in the past, and in part in this summation, but objectively, it was done (?) cannot commission or dare, nor has the right to stop the law. That's what Dom makes the final decision on the committee's opinion, no matter what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19747	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Selim Bešlagić answered. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19748	Well, let me just say a few words. I, at one point, suggested that the Ministry of Agriculture be formed. On the Constitutional and Legal Committee, I was told this way, you failed to meet the conditions for the law because you did not bring consent to two entities. And I said, "I'm giving the initiative and the Council of Ministers needs to take that initiative and act in such a way as to get the two consents." However, my bill was rejected. That's what I'm saying is that this question for me was that if the commission said that constitutional and legal conditions were not met, it would be rejected. However, according to the new Rules of Procedure, Sead Avdić says, we accepted that the Commission's fact report, so it was positive, came negative here and we vote. I am in favour of always getting the report and voting and finally, eventually, then entering the procedure further or suspending the procedure. But it was generally rejected because I didn't meet the conditions, which means I didn't get the consent of two entities to transfer the ministry to the state ministry level.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19749	Thank you. Who's picking up the line? Mr. Ćeman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19750	My colleague Bešlagić, there is a difference between your bill and this which is.... The debate is that there was no dispute over your bill that there was no basis, and there is a dispute here because some believe that there is a basis, another that there is no. So that's two different things.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19751	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate, and we're going to have to make a statement about this interpretation. I urge you to prepare for the vote. Who's up for this? Who is for the interpretation given by the Commission, the College of the House. So, who is the interpretation given by the College of the House, which is why we disagreed, so the House must plead. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Which you have in front of you, which for that paper, which isn't. Did you vote? Please return the vote. So I invite you to vote. Is it clear what's being voted on? So there's an interpretation that, if the Constitutional and Legal Committee's negative position is negative, the procedure continues to go further. That's the proposal you got. And we didn't get along in college. So now we're voting on whether or not you're out of line for what's been sent. Home has to be made clear who's in favor, who's against. Is that clear? Yes, it is. 72 Please prepare to vote. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now. For 18, 13 against, no abstentions. We don't have a majority from the RS. He's staying for the next session as well as these others. Moving to the 11th point of the agenda, Add.11. Giving consent to ratification under, (a) Framework Agreement between the European Community and BiH on the general principles of BiH's participation in Community programmes and under, (b) I am opening the debate. Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare for, shall we vote in the package or individually? So we ratify both agreements in one vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree that we unanimously agreed on ratification under a) the Framework Agreement between the European Community and BiH on the general principles of BiH's participation in community programmes and under, b) the Treaty on a comprehensive ban on nuclear testing. Moving to the 12th point of the agenda, that's Ad.12. The appointment of a member of the Election Commission of BiH At yesterday's session of the College in an extended composition, chaired by the adhoc committee for the selection of appointments, he suggested that the appointment of members of the Electoral Commission from the Croatian People's Order be placed on the agenda. I remind you that at the 59th session, we appointed members of the Election Commission from the Bosniak and Serbian people, and then there was no proposal for a member of the Croatian People's Commission. The extended college agreed to put this item into the agenda of today's session. Since following the appointment of members of the Election Commission from the Bosniak and Serb nations, there have been some objections to the candidate's proposal procedure, the Extended College has concluded that the House is bound by the adhoc commission to report by the next session on the procedure of proposing candidates for members of the Electoral Commission from the point of view of breach of the election process. I propose that before the debate on the appointment of the proposed member of the Electoral Commission, we adopt a conclusion, which was presented yesterday at the Enlarged College. An adhoc commission is required to select the appointments of members of the Election Commission 73 BiH, to submit to the House of Representatives at the next session a report on the procedure for proposing members of the Election Commission in the order of the Serb and Bosniak people according to the scheduled competition, which was published on 10.6.2005, and to inform the House on 29 June 2005, whether there were legal and procedural failures in the work of the Commission and the selection of members. We agreed, I beg you not to open the debate, since there are complaints and complaints. I'd like to make a statement on this conclusion. Comrade Zorić has his word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19753	Just one note, I agree entirely with this conclusion, but that conclusion is referred to the Election Commission as soon as possible because they are doing a technical part for this adhoc commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19754	Okay, please, let's do it right, but let this house be informed and just be prepared to vote on this conclusion. Prepare to vote on this conclusion. Vote now. Please follow, I know you're as tired as I am. 24 votes, no problem, no abstentions. I find this conclusion adopted. We are moving on to the debate on the proposal of a candidate for a member of the Electoral Commission. You received a proposal this morning for a member of the Electoral Commission. They are proposed under 1. Stjepan Nikić, 2. Đurica Šišulj, 3. Ante Iljkić votes for candidates in order as proposed by the Commission. The first candidate to receive the majority is appointed member. I'm opening a debate. If there's any need to, no one's answering. Mr. Jozo Križanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19755	I have one really principled remark that we're getting a proposal without any biographies, no résumés, who are these people who are proposing? It really doesn't make sense to have something like this on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19756	I agree with this, of course, that it would be good to get at least minimum information, but here is the Commission's work so far in this way. 74 Is there anyone else to report for the hearing? There's no one here. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. So we're voting on Stjepan Nikić. Prepare to vote. Who's in? I find that for 27, no one against, eight abstentions. So I find that Mr Stjepan Nikić has been elected as a member of the Election Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving to the 13th item of the agenda, Ad.13. The amendment to the BiH Constitution, first reading of the Council of Ministers, on 28 April 2005, was submitted to the parliamentary procedure, just a little please, Amendment I to the Constitution of BiH. On 1 June 2005, the Constitutional and Legal Commission submitted an opinion on Amendment I to the Constitution of BiH. The public debate took place on 7 July 2005. On 25 July 2005, a report by the Constitutional and Legal Commission on the amendment was delivered to Dom. You have received an opinion and report from the Constitutional and Legal Committee. You saw in the report that the Commission accepted the principles and thus the text of the amendment and concluded that the amendment is necessary to adopt. Today we have a debate on the amendment in the first reading. I'm opening a debate and I'm answering my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19757	The President of the dom Nikola Špirić called for his word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19758	Fellow chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, distinguished guests, firstly I think there has been a lot of talk about this request for a change in Article 1. The BiH Constitution. Sometimes unnecessary political stories were opened since constitutional topics were always topics that were of additional interest to the public in BiH, but this is what I would say is the change of the Constitution regarding economic issues above all. We also got an OHR interpretation here. I wouldn't have mentioned it if it hadn't been for a single mistake in the original translation here. So you've got a working translation where I don't know which side of you is just a page where in the third paragraph, I think there's one mistake that wouldn't fit what we want, where it's said in the last sentence, so from the first point of view, from the legal point of view of the new payment structure, it's possible to implement only on condition that Article 9 of Article 2 is deleted from the BiH Constitution. At this point, Article 9(2) prevents the Council of Ministers from introducing any changes in terms of reduction of compensation received by state-level employees. So it makes this whole story pointless. So they here forbid what is required by the change of the Constitution, but it is a mistake and I am obliged to inform you because here you need a translation, therefore, adapting either up or down. It means that growth or wage cuts are allowed, and that's why I want to let you know. And you see, I have to say that this is a change of the Constitution from the economic sphere and the public's eyes may have been unnecessary to the state 75 Parliament, the state MPs, I want to say that I will support this change and I want to send a message that changes to the BiH Constitution are possible in terms of everything, but that when it comes to difficult political issues, when it comes to the regulation of BiH, the competences of individual institutions, entities, etc. that these are serious political issues and that those who think that they will change in the same way are not mistaken. So we are aware that this needs to be changed in the Constitution and we want to make a contribution to change this in the Constitution. And therefore, please, for the sake of the public and the created atmosphere, to support this change of the Constitution and all other stories about the change of the Constitution will certainly be much more complex and will go much slower. So this is just what I'm saying, so I'm calling on my colleagues to support this change, to change Article 1. The BiH Constitution. I will personally support it, I call on you, not to have extensive debates because I think too many negative climates have been created on this change, and I don't think we would have done a good job of giving a negative answer today, because the public would have been informed that state lawmakers are only fighting for overpower called wages, and that's not true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19759	Thank you very much, Mr. Špirić. Who's next to the word? Mr. Križanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19760	Thank you. When it comes to this amendment to the change of the BiH Constitution, I want to mention two things. That's first, I think we'll all agree that this text concerning the amendment is not constitutional matter. And it's really a miracle how he found himself in the Constitution. In particular, he is ill-formed and therefore neither content nor substance should he be a constitutional substance. However, the arguments given for the need to amend the constitution, I think they are very bad and do not paint the real situation in BiH. In fact, you will all agree that the bill is paid, I am not sure whether for all the users of the Budget of BiH, but I am sure for Parliament, the Presidency and the Council of Ministers, that they are designated so-called. The coefficient and basis of the salary, as it is said, is said in that Regulation that this base is calculated at 240, it seems to me that it is subject to amendments and that the Council of Ministers will establish it every three months. I mean, if it were to be interpreted by the very provisions of the Constitution that treats this matter, it could be said that they are not fixed and guaranteed salaries of civil servants. Thus, we come to the conclusion that this amendment to the Constitution from the point of view of these reasons and the need for an explanation is not necessary. But then I totally agree that she doesn't belong in the Constitution but she's not... some necessity, so if you want this to be evaluated whether it's good or not, then you could say that, that's what it is. So we don't see any big reason for the big story about changing the Constitution, especially in a segment like this where there are very, very big reasons for more serious constitutional changes, and here we are, unfortunately, exhausting ourselves on this one trifial 76 problem, but I'm saying, all of a sudden, here we won't be opposed to that change either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19761	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Mr. Miloš Jovanović, Mr. Belkić, Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19762	Well, I want to get along a lot, what Mr. Križanović was saying. And, I really think if someone needs to cut our salary, I'm speaking for myself now, so I'm going to sign a statement saying that my salary is cut by 10%, so there won't be a story that we're against the pay cut. So, and I think it's more legal that I mean, that everyone, or anyone who wants to, here I am among the first to sign a statement that I want my salary reduced by 10% or by as much as it is and when we've adopted this budget, told me that weBudužete planning less funds for the budget by 10%, so I'm going to sign a statement to cut my salary by 10%, and I think it's much more right and much better than to make a change to the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19763	Thank you. Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19764	We will, of course, support this, this amendment to the BiH Constitution for a simple reason, something similar to what Mr Križanović said, we really don't think that matter is the height of wages and methods and protection, unprotection, should be constitutional matter. So we simply don't think that this area is a place in the BiH Constitution, and we understand why it is possible then and built up, because no one had much of a special will then to run into the BiH Parliament, especially those who did not believe in BiH. But there's something else that's got me up here. We were just discussing the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure and the whole story, however, although not much was mentioned in the Constitution, that is, this amendment, that is, this amendment procedure, was related to the situation over the amendment to the BiH Constitution, there was a negative report on the constitutional and legal basis. Now, what are we going to do about this, how we're going to behave now, here's the situation, so concrete. I'm very interested in how we're going to get Mr. Gligorić on that little door, what you mentioned, etc. And I'm telling you that this Parliament, both of which have instruments, that no one can impose anything that this House does not support. So there's no need for fear, I think we should discuss it normally, I repeat this discussion again, I hope you won't replicate it to me, so we have the right to all plead as we think about this change. So, we'll back this up.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19765	I ask you, to avoid replicas, to help get what we want, and I consider it a good intention, but here I am asking my colleagues not to replicate. So 77
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19766	You spoke differently a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19767	Well, I didn't. I always said we should get to the desired goal. No problem, I can stand up and talk for half an hour and make sure we don't have a two-thirds majority and then what we did. But that's not the point. But I call who's the next speaker. So Dr. Sead Avdić answered and then Ljilja Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19768	Comrade Avdić, you look better behind your back than your front. In any case, as someone who considered this question serious, I attended here a public debate that was made, which was by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, I think the local was Mr. Ćeman, where we were present, where we were present, people from the Council of Ministers, from the international community. Now, since the man who was in front of the finance and vault ministry has not answered the questions, I feel the need to ask Mrs. Marić who was not with us at the time, to answer. The Council of Ministers explains that eradicating this member, a member of the Constitution for reducing public spending, is required. So this is an explanation, the fact is that the point, Article 9(2), is the fee for persons in office in BiH institutions cannot be reduced during the term of office of the holder of the post. That's when I asked, I wasn't answered. How many persons do we have who are in office in BiH institutions? I was convinced that the Council of Ministers gave a financial draft, which means this, why, the fact is that some other constitution is not the rarity of the BiH Constitution to have a provision where it says, it is precisely the protection of people chosen, to be independent, meaning that they will not be changed for more or less during their term of office. So that's not what we made up, it's still got a constitution in Europe, that first. Secondly, whether this applies to the financial effect, whether it applies to 42 people here, plus whether or not there are delegates who have been in the House of Peoples for 4 years and three members of the Presidency, or whether they are porters, maids, chefs, all of them because they are all under this hat and it is said that Malta is not, no one can be taken down, everyone seems to have a mandate, their mandate is four years, no one's salary can be touched, by drivers, porters, officials, officials, as we call them gentlemen, they are all hiding under the hat of the constitutional category. Who here abuses the Constitution of BiH, or whether there is a way to seek the protection of constitutionality because this member of the Constitution does not refer to everything you have led under this. Personally, I'm standing on Mr. Jovanović's background, and I'll be the first to know if it's too crowded, and I'll be forced to sign to give up 10% or whatever it takes, but what effect does BiH have? The constitution needs to be changed, we need to make arrangements, but let's not change it for nonsense. How many tens of thousands of marks are worth such a change of constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19769	Replica, Mr. Špirić. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19770	It's not a replica, of course, but I want to get out of this today so we don't send a message that Parliament shouldn't send. It has to be run at the state level, please, everyone will vote the way they think they should vote, I won't convince you at all, I have no intention. But you might think, if each of us were to write statements about how much he wanted his salary to be, and when he wanted to be reduced to 5 or 10%, what would that country look like? Well, there are many of us, you see... the effects that the BiH state would fit and revive, many institutions introduced where the material motives were highlighted and, of course, that this should now be balanced and that the mechanism must be created because this matter was not a place in the Constitution and it is not the Constitution. I don't think it's the Constitution. And I don't think this is affecting those big stories about changing the BiH constitution that political stories are being held and will be run for maybe 5 or 10 years. But in order for us to have the right to run these stories, what are we arguing about? Will someone have the right to manage their salary, so it'll be 5 or 10%? I don't see the point. This is the principle of constitutional, which is the same for everyone in this country. So, in economic terms, equals for everyone. It can't be punished by Nikola Špirić's salary and not be Beriz Belkić or I don't know Sead Palavrić etc. I ask you, therefore, to create here a public matter, to give the impression that we are serious MPs, and that it is not only about ourselves, whether I will be reduced by 5 or 10%. It'll be the kind of economic social environment in this country. That's why I don't think I need to be led by wide stories. I call on the representatives of my SNSD political party to support this amendment. The other will vote as anyone will. I can't convince anyone that this is good or not. Whether it was supposed to be in the Constitution or not should be in the Constitution won't help us. And I think we should support this change. Thank you. Replica colleague Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19771	I would have all my colleagues and the chairman that this relationship, or relationship to this issue, is not so simple. Is someone to raise the salary or cut the salary 10%. counterpart Jovanović said he was ready and we are all ready to give up 10%. I wonder where it's going to go down 10%. Let's talk like that now. So the key question is the whole time is who the function holders are in office. Believe me, I expected the minister to say, according to her assessment, the Council of Ministers, the interpretation of the Council of Ministers, and I don't know who the function bearers are in office, you and that is, not necessarily names and last names. That's 42 MPs, 15 delegates in the House of Peoples, 3 members of the Presidency, 28 directors of the Directorate, neither do I, and these are gentlemen in office. The director of the SIP, the OSCE, I don't know either, it doesn't matter, etc. etc. We would then have a perfectly clear position. This is how I feel all the time, clouding my position. That's what this is about. I feel like the whole time someone won't say what I'm asking. Secondly, it takes 2/3 of the majority here. I think we've prepared this session very badly. Be careful not to call the club presidents before the agenda point at which the 2/3 majority should be established for a decision, I won't say it's unserious, but let me use some much lighter term is unexpected, or it would be expected that before this session we sit down and see if we have that 2/3 majority or not. 79 Perhaps in that debate about 2/3 of the majority of us would settle these positions very differently and today we wouldn't even be breaking up on these issues here. I've already had my discussion, and I've replicated it. I'm really sorry. I will anyway not answer for the discussion before the plea request a break of 10 minutes on behalf of the SDS Club and I would really like to go with the club presidents, if the College considers it necessary to use those 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19772	Please, nice. You see, the seriousness, the inconclusion of the session's preparation can be everyone's thoughts. I think we have 2/3 of the majority. Let people say what anyone thinks about this thing. I don't argue at all that anyone who has a negative attitude... should take it out. I do not dispute that the Council of Ministers will respond if there is a need for these questions and will answer. There's the minister. But let's finish the discussion. Dr. Crescent. Sead Avdić. So let everyone say what anyone thinks. Who needs a break, they'll get a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19773	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'd just like to say that my colleague Milićević has every right. How could this nonsense have strayed in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina? How was it really possible? How is it possible for one member to enter the Constitution of one of the highest constitutional legal acts of a state? So it's no longer a question, it's really no longer a question of whether it's 10% up or down. The question is that it is not a place in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it was a failure simply in Dayton which was generated for various compromise reasons etc. What bothers me, this argument we cannot accept. Synchronising folder failed: %s: %s The explanation is that all the people before the Constitution are equal, including the MPs of the House of Representatives, including all those elected officials of the BH institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So that's an explanation. Niko one can exception and all people are equal in front of the law and before the Constitution, which means you can't guarantee someone that they will have a salary I don't know for so many years and so on and so on and that you simply can't correct the wages etc. So this stupidity really, this nonsensus of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina to get kicked out of the Constitution, and it would really be a good start to show good faith, that we have done something in terms of reform, or correction of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19774	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Just a little bit, please. Mr. Ćeman pa Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19775	So, I'd say first, I'm in favour of supporting this amendment and I'll vote for it. But out of respect for the fact that for the first time as far as I know, it is in the extreme 80 official form as this procedure envisions a concrete proposal for a concrete amendment to the Constitution, this Parliament and we all have to deal with it in one way and I just want to say a few things. First, the Constitution is a legal and political act. There are more types and constitutions and states. There are countries as you know, I don't educate who don't have any written constitutions at all. It is therefore not disputed that such a provision may be in the Constitution. It's not a dispute. It's not all the way out of logic, but we agree that it's different, and that's why I'm about to get rid of the Constitution. Although I am in a public breakdown that has been established here, and I really do think that the existence of such a provision in the Constitution is not an obstacle that it can be reduced and it can be reduced and the wages and even the ones that it seems I can't. Why? Because it depends on the ability of the state and the income. I would only understand this constitutional norm that, for political reasons, something can be diminished if economic opportunities are on the side of staying in receipts. But just because there's a problem and a dilemma about what's best to get this out of the Constitution and not have a dilemma of that kind, rather than keep it in the Constitution. And I would like to conclude, please, that fellow Špirić said something like that, if support for this amendment, among other things, is to demonstrate willingness and ability to, of course, comply with the procedures and the necessary consensus, we do constitutional addition and reform at all, not just on this issue and to open this issue to this case, I am, among other things, and for that and for that reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19776	Thank you. I'm a colleague of Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19777	Like this. I would personally like to vote smoothly against this amendment and against this amendment to the Constitution that the present politicians and journalists will not declare it selfish and my material desire to have more. Although it's not abnormal. This is too much of a question for the Constitution to change. We have far more important issues, and they had to feel that in the Council of Ministers too, in order to protect for example. The rights of the people in Bosnia and Herzegovina to change the Constitution, rather than about 10% of the population, although the material damage is whether it is spent on officials in Bosnia and Herzegovina can be compensated by the Law on Salaries, for example. So that the directors of individual agencies don't have 3 or 4 times more than members of the Bureau if the Council of Ministers had proposed and passed such a wage law, then the Bureau member would be 10, MPs 9, ministers 9, but the directors might be 7.5 or 8. And of course someone won't and they won't answer. So I don't think it's about that 10%. This could have been settled through the Payments Act, but in a way that, for example, elected officials do not reduce salaries in the term of office. But that's a whole other question. I'll, I won't hold a club session and I won't speak for the club, I'll speak for myself. I'm going to think a lot more about how I'm going to vote on this constitutional change, because I think, I really think that, that a lot of things the Council of Ministers could have done to protect thousands or how Ljiljana says tens of thousands of marks make up for this as they say whether public spending is. It could have been reduced in the adoption of important laws and we sought and against which this 81 parliament and, in particular, the Administrative Commission of both the Houses of the Malta Parliamentary Assembly were not crucified on a public pillar of shame, and there was nothing to be ashamed of just because someone would not do their job and would not regulate it by law even though it was the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as the revision requires us to settle it with the law, however, we are not convinced by the media and some fellow MPs that it is better not to regulate something by law but to regulate it by law. And for one of these insignificant things, I have to subscribe to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think, first of all, that the reason is not correct, because that's what my colleague Špirić said from the pay phone, that the Council of Ministers can't change. It can go up. The constitution did not say that material receipts could not be changed, but could not be reduced. And I ask the Council of Ministers, now in my debate – why is the '96 daily. Is it always the same until 2006? Didn't the average salary increase in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So the daily in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or members of the Council of Ministers may not travel through Bosnia and Herzegovina is 30 marks, and in the Federation it seems to me 50 or 55 marks. ________/? [[not enabled]] That's what you ask. I can't hear anyone else, I can't hear what they mean and well-meaning me. So, I wonder how that's possible and ask only that on the Administrative Commission and then everyone gets taken in the shoulders. It means someone's not doing their job. We need to coordinate the base with the average salary. We need to synchronise the logs. No one does that. There's one joke from the former Yugoslavia when they said so what do you want me to know there some secretary has so much and so much pay as a kid. What do you want, some worker complains about his small salary? He says I'll be the secretary for nothing.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19779	Thank you. Dr. Crescent. Gligorić answered the question. Here you go. Is it a replica of his colleague Novaković? It's not a replica. Well, then, dr. Gligorić and you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19780	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with Professor Chairman. I Špirić when he said that he needed to give his opinion positively or negatively on this issue, and I believe that it is the fundamental role of parliamentarian to do so. We've already said a lot about this issue. We also had opportunities at a public hearing. There were all kinds of problems in terms of whether it was a political question and how Beriz said it, but now it's gone, that there's something at the little door and he calls me, he wants to do it, so let's just say it's not true, but then Professor Sejo now says it's a start. Is that the beginning of what's being felt? Don't give me that. Okay. But let's just say that those aren't the reasons. Then I agree with you, but it is the beginning of changing the Constitution and agreeing with those who have said absolutely irrelevant and irrelevant things, said Mr Križanović and Vinko Zorić. Now the question is why does the Council of Ministers rush to that 82 and why an organised campaign is being conducted in terms of and people are being burdened by both Ljilja and Jovanović and others are signing something to cut their salaries. Because of this pressure, because of this campaign that was consciously led. So here I am falling into that trap to say because of the journalists behind, and you too, that in the Constitutional and Legal Commission, I have decided with my vote that I cannot pass that radical bill on the rights and obligations of MPs with such benefits that were proposed there. So now I'm just saying something, so I have a reason to start talking. So the campaign is here about this issue, and consciously. And I believe that the Council of Ministers wants to discipline this Parliament and achieve more goals, not to explain now which, but first of all, Parliament has started to work well, disagrees with the Council of Ministers with many decisions within this Parliament and simply the executive authority must understand that Parliament is above the executive authority. But obviously that, you know, when it takes power, then it would turn around. Secondly, they are here at the same time to humiliate this parliament. One way or another, we change him or we don't humiliate ourselves. Both ways. And it's made up. Now why didn't the Council of Ministers do some other things, and already Mr. Križanović said, they could change the basis and regulate the issue. And they're not. Secondly, the club I belong to, we've asked for a bill of wages to be passed, so that the issue in different institutions is not regulated by individual decisions. We have such proportions that are truly unacceptable. When it went away, did the Council, I now, along the way, ask the Minister what is the conclusion of this representative's home, because you adopted that conclusion on our proposal and that conclusion is practically a dead letter on paper. Why didn't we get that bill to take care of this area? And one more thing. Why does the Council of Ministers enter when it regulates some, some issues of financial issues within Parliament why it does not respect its jurisdiction, but enters the jurisdiction of the Administrative Commission. In this case, the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples regulate some things, and here they advocate constitutionality of the Constitution, and the basic jurisdiction forgets how they should do it. And that is now the basic problem of the consistency of a proposal. I therefore believe that there is a need to accept, or a commitment, according to the Rules of Procedure, the SDS Club has already asked for a break to further consult and see if there are 2/3 of the majority on this important issue, because I believe that if someone wants this issue to pass, and it is put on the agenda, that it is understood that there is a 2/3 majority to be provided. Otherwise, the proposal could end in a failure that is not necessarily a problem, since it is an irrelevant issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19781	Thank you. Is there anyone else to answer for? Dr. Crescent. You're a Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19782	I thank Mr. Chairman, I belong, and I join those who have said that there seems to be a consensus even greater than 2/3 in this House that this is no place in the Constitution, that this is not constitutional matter. Naturally, this isn't constitutional matter from the point of view of the moment we're in. I don't belong to those, and as many as 83 of us as I can see, none of us have been in Dayton, but we've been reading a little bit about it, we've been informed. There's an explanation logically why this is written in Dayton. I'm not saying I'd write it. There's a logical explanation why it's written in Dayton. Because this was supposed to be a guarantee that in general state institutions and people who received the mandate of the people, especially at the time when the state institutions and functions, or the mandates of those 50 or 100 people falling under this category, were based on the donations of entities. It's all by making a decision in indirect taxation, and all of this is turned upside down together. Now maybe entities could be looking for constitutional amendments if they couldn't cut their salaries during the term of office, because now the thing has turned a little bit. But what's there is. It is evident that this should not be in the Constitution today, after all. I also think that as a man sitting in this house, I wouldn't want to turn out again to be someone who is, who will be accused of something that doesn't belong to him. Let me remind you how this happened. This came because the House of Peoples did not allow their salary to be reduced by 10% and they found a constitutional basis for it. Whether he's right or not is another matter. But if the general place here is to interpret that it is true that they have introduced as a constitutional basis, then we cannot, as members of the legislative body, say by our signature that we will not respect the Constitution, even if we do not think so. For these reasons, I also believe that even this is allowed to the people's home to interpret it, because let me remind you, especially I will not complicate the matter by entering the English version of Dejton which is the only measure. Here are the fees practically all of that, not only that basic personal income and there should not be a great financing officer to know that at the beginning of this term people's fees in both homes total, parchment plus salary, call it whatever you want were less than today. In other words, if a 10% reduction were applied, it wouldn't even break what it says here. In other words, the House of Nations has brought us into one situation that we are now in. And today's not accepting erasing this practically means, you talk as much as you want, it's actually going to be interpreted in public, no matter what you think about it, that we're the ones who stopped the administration from getting paid for their salaries. Now we can explain to whoever we want. We can rent a paid ad, we can do whatever we want, but there's no one in the public opinion that we didn't stop it just because we don't want 10% off. So I think the idea of signing is great just would be unserious from members of the House of Representatives to sign that they're going to do something that's against constitutional, because they've accepted that it's against constitutional. We should then address the Constitutional Court and enter a dispute with the People's House, but we will still be the ones who will be accused in public of doing all this so that we don't get paid 10%. In other words, for those reasons, I think this is what I want to legitimize and work for the public and for everything, that this should be done. Noting once again that the House of Peoples and the Council of Ministers went through a line of less resistance to remove responsibility for not being prepared to reduce 10% of the commitments made by the IMF by signing a stand-by arrangement. But let's explain it to Zorić to the people, you know the stand-by arrangement, so the IMF, so they, so we, well over here, there's nothing there, 84 IMF, forget it. Anyone who reads any newspaper will look at any medium and make it clear that we are the ones who don't give our money. And that is why, sir, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, those who hold back on this, have the possibility in the House of Peoples through their party colleagues to stop all of this in the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure defined the way. Then may the gentlemen of the House of the Peoples who brought us into it, then they shall spread out the cover of the public and say no to their 10% wages. There. So, as far as I know, a good part of the parliamentary majority here, not to say three main factors have the opportunity to initiate a procedure for it to be exactly the way you want it to be in the House of Peoples. Every single person eats. I agree. And that's why I'm calling for this more, so I wouldn't have to explain to my aunt that we're not all the same.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19783	Yeah, yeah. Thank you, Dr. President. Lagumji. Two replicas, and Minister Ljerka Marić asked for it. Here, let's finish the replica. Mr. Zorić then, and you'll discuss it later. We can discuss it after the minister. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19784	I am mentioned, in my opinion, a little bit in the negativistic context, and I said that I was in favour of reducing wages and saving the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it is known which way – to pass a bill on salaries so that, I don't know, I don't know, some director who's funding the same from the budget on Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions doesn't have two or three times the salary of MPs in the Parliamentary Assembly. So these are huge savings, not of 10%, but of 110%, but I think this amendment is, and I'm going to say it here openly, and I just said it in order for the members of the Council of Ministers to score anyway, either we accept it or we don't accept it. But I think it could, could at that time, or at that time write a bill on wages and make a lot more savings than we will, but I'm ready to conclude today that we are paying the MPs, for the others I really don't care about the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina less 10%. Let's put it to the conclusion here. We're reaching a conclusion at this point, but because of this matter, I'm not willing to change the Constitution. I did get this thrown out of the Constitution when we're changing the Constitution for much more important things, to throw out this item 2 is Article 9 to get it out of the Constitution completely, but to change the Constitution for this, that's why I didn't. I said I hadn't yet decided how to vote, and I have no intention, because no one from the Council of Ministers asked me to and didn't ask the clubs to meet and to make one projection of whether there would be 2/3 of the majority, and there is my suspicion that the members of the Council of Ministers are quite whatever we are going to adopt this amendment or not. If we don't, they'll say so we've done everything we can to save, here they are. If we want, they'll tell you how we got a good amendment, this good amendment made to the Constitution. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19785	I thank my colleague Zorić. The word was sought by Minister Ljerka Marić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19786	I welcome you all and it can be realized that you are all right. Last year, when we were making the budget for 2005, we proposed in the budget which was the budget to which the budget item for fees and salaries was less than 10%, the total and savings were planned at a level of 16 million. When I came to work in 2003, I found three thousand and 900 employees. Now we have on the budget of those who pay 7.5 thousand with defence reform and police reform that number will rise to thousands and thousands of 320 thousand, 300 thousand etc. And when we discussed it with the IMF when we were discussing entities with which to finance the state, we agreed that it would be very good that, within that board of directors, the famous ones of the Directorates for indirect taxation, whether, whose laws you love so much, this revenue side, which is primarily under the law on the system of indirect taxation, or the Single Account Act, belonged to everyone, so we said that we financed the external debt of the state and the state safely. Over the course of this year, the state gets the meaning of external debt as a third party's obligations and then this part towards the state goes so safely that the entities don't tolerate us, because it means at what level is being achieved according to our planned budget, we certainly get some of the funds that belong to us every day. Unlike them, which then when our share is rejected belongs to the rest that depends on the collection of income. And they are now working intensively to change the law on the system of indirect taxation and this article that says that we share all the same fate if we have 5 million then we will have according to it, and not the state will certainly be 3, and they will have what they have left. So, in the meantime, there has been a major change within this part that says how to finance the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina since the year it was established, before that year it was written and when it was really provided to the state by Article 9 as explained to me by the people who wrote the Constitution that it was meant to start establishing common institutions of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institution, the joint institution at the time, and to be financed from the collection of entities and donations. The state enters normal its life gets its own resources, now it has 51 of its growing budget users, etc. and when we come into the story with entities and the Brcko District as far as we make the revenues and as much as we belong to the fiscal objective for 2005 and 2006 we have to agree and within that we agree and we proposed last year means the budget that said to the state will be the revenue total of 336 million how much of it now I don't have from this account a single account to accept it and the entity means that the joint cookie indirect not direct tax are common. We have the difference between taxes, fees and the rest, and that's a common VAT is common. So when we went through all this, then we came in as part of the total public spending on data, to spend more than 70% of the budget on fees and wages. When we came back into the context of these reforms in a situation where we took employees from entities from the RS and from the Federation to this administration for indirect taxation, what we do. The salaries of customs officers in RS, e.g. It was 500 marks. The customs pay is 600 marks, now that the customsman's salary is 900 marks. It means because of our salaries that we have been making joint institutions for the entire 86th time we are raising the level of public spending and very inappropriate and unsustainable. That's why they say you need to go back a little bit. Now as far back as you can get. And that's why it means, in order to appreciate all this, we're proposing this budget that you've adopted without some over-real discussion. No Niko's been in a lot of trouble or anything. We just need to monitor employment, dynamics, etc. So none of us have ever mentioned that we would like to cut salaries, especially to Parliament, and of course we are not so interested in reducing the Council of Ministers' salary. And so it wasn't that story at all. When this article of the Constitution was interpreted. He finally, because it was the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina that formed in the interpretation applied to everything. And I think it's high time that we actually adopted this amendment, that the 2006 budget is finished, we started planning it, we got the corresponding part of the income, we slowly negotiate it, and we agree it means you're sending this request, we're filling in the budget that it's time for this amendment to be adopted, and by the end of next week we're done, we're finishing the pay law. He's missing a few more in the ratio. We'll meet with your finance and budget committee. I'd like you to take a look at that whole thing, so before you do that, you see what we're going to do, how we're going to pair it up with, whether we're representing the Constitutional Court, the President, should we be. So that's bullshit. The budget ends. We should propose a new budget to end this. So the pay law really should be one way out of this problem and all the other then accompanying fees, etc. The question of the diaries looks like this in the country. The Council of Ministers pays 30 marks for travel from Sarajevo to Banja Luka. The Federation pays 50 marks, and RS gives 24 marks for the same route. Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions live throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. We have in Brcko... (OSU?We've got an I.D. at Banja Luka, we've got something in Mostar, I don't know. So we have to get one of the administrations here, it doesn't matter, so Sarajevo has most of the seats, etc. We need to look at it means not only how developed we are economically all in one part of the country Brcko has made great progress, we have returned a lot because of this redistribution of income lately, the Federation etc. So when we round it up, then we say how much something would be compared to one part of the country, to the other part of the country, and that's why we're dangerous to everyone. We raise consumption levels, raising our levels to inappropriate growth in economic terms does not adequately mean DPI. So we have to kind of respect it so that through the pay law, we agree everything, the pay grade we compare nicely, but it would be really good, it would be good if we really adopted this amendment, and if we voted for, for the longest 20 days on the pay law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19787	I thank the minister. Replica Ljilja Milićević, pa replica Sead Palavrić, pa replica Tihomir Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19788	Dear Mrs. Marić, I apologize, but here's the third time I'll repeat the question. A member, you see, it's the least of it, and now it's important whether it's going to go through 87. How do you interpret the Constitution with this parallel with customs for God's sake? The compensation for persons at the functions of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot be reduced during the term of office of the holder of the post. I asked you nicely how many function carriers do we have in this country? How much did you calculate by deleting a member of the Constitution's effect? And really can't you customs and porters, without changing the constitution to cut wages. So how many people who have the effect and who are the bearers of the functions elected to the mandate in this country?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19789	I thank Milićević. Minister Marić, come in. They'll all get answers, they'll all be together.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19790	I'd like us to remember who in this country interprets the Constitution? Who is this man in this country interpreting the Constitution? So our constitutional and legal commission when it considered the constitutional and legal basis for the adoption of this amendment felt that there was a constitutional and legal basis for this amendment to pass. Because when we started, please the report at the end says here's a vote nice down 4:2 and I don't know this. The other thing
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19791	Wait a minute, please, let's watch who's talking.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19792	The second thing, I told you nicely, when it started, we adopted the budget in the House of Representatives without a problem when we voted on the budget at the House of Peoples they were no matter what this said in the Constitution voted for the budget means knowing everything that happens for the reduced budget, for 10% and that budget was adopted and it was published. Nothing was like a problem. In the meantime, we continued to pay off the old pay, until we solved this problem, that is, for this year we can still continue with this payout method, but we must therefore quickly pass the Pay Law. What Ljilja is asking me now, according to her interpretation of bearers and behavior and as this is called, cannot be reduced to something, pay or compensation during the term of office. According to those who wrote the Constitution, it does not mean that it is 10 judges, 12 ministers, 40 MPs, but at the time to provide funding to a state that did not exist to the institutions of common Bosnia and Herzegovina, all that has been transferred is also used for wages, compensation for other needs. In general, when viewed in a broader sense in this article, it would actually mean that if one entity gives 2 million a year one year, and the other entity is 3 months away, so it agrees, that by the year it doesn't contaminate this entity to reduce it to half a million, and this one to 100,000. Which they did a little bit in the meantime. And so this was in terms of construction and financial construction, so these people strictly adhered to the interpretations of the Constitution, and I would then urgently have to finish law school and constitutional law. So I was really from an economic 88 point of view trying to figure out what was explained to me by those who wrote that constitution and were there. So, but it was really trying to protect the level of state institutions in a way that didn't reduce that tranche that comes for those people who work there. They hire new people, they need more money. We are now jeopardizing the existence of the state, our needs are growing. And it's not just about those three customs officers, it's about the story of 18 or how many thousands of cops who get paid like ours in the SIP cops, then we'd have to find 500 million somewhere in the context of total public spending, and then we'd go over all the measures, etc. So this has to do with, this has to do with total public spending growing due to the merger of institutions at state level and the effects of merger and consumption compared to the Directorate for indirect taxation individually and last year, look 15 million is more this item and the wages are one and a half times higher. Because of our salaries that we once adopted long ago. It doesn't matter what decision it makes, but it's what it is. And it means the only thing that guarantees the normal way the state works in this area, means wages, fees, where there's a warm cloud, journals, and there's a pay law left. We have the Labour Act, the Payments Act, and let's do it under that pay law and stuff. Parliament is a special category. I'll have my own way of expressing it in all these fees, you can even pass your own special law. But whatever it means, we'll just be nailed because it's obviously necessary to change this article, this part of the constitution that talks about wages. And you're saying that he shouldn't be in the Constitution. So I'm really not a constitutional lawyer, but because of the country's financial life, because we need to finish the 2006 budget, so next month he's offering it to us, it would be good to get rid of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19793	Replica. Does anyone have one? Who's got the replica? The replica of Sead, and Dr. Gligorić, so Dr. You're a Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19794	I really didn't want to discuss it today. For me, this thing was a principled nature, and let's not deal with demagogy now. Such a provision exists in all democratic countries and should protect elected representatives, judges, ministers from the possibility of corruption. And that's her job. It must have been preisati by the Amerikanac. However, with the aim of allowing for the reduction of public spending, the SDA Club and I, together with our club, will vote in favour of this amendment and the elimination of this provision from the Constitution, even if it reduces democracy. However, I do not accept the interpretation of the minister. I can't accept that what was transferred to the state is now increasing the number of employees at the state level and the number of salaries, and why it's not being reduced where it was transferred from. Now don't show me entities here as poor people, or municipalities when the municipal chief has a salary of 2,300 marks. The reason is in this and the fact that when someone was conducting judicial reform and determining judges to pay two or three thousand, five thousand marks, that and prosecutors, too, to lawyers on official duty, when we were saying that these budgets couldn't handle it, he was saying that we support corruption. So this amendment should pave the way for all judges in Bosnia and Herzegovina, all prosecutors, to be able to cut their salaries to the level possible and sustainable for all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So one normal ratio. This 89 amendment is not an obstacle to the adoption of the Payments Act, this is the responsibility of the Council of Ministers to offer a salary law that would show the hierarchy in this country in three years' time. I say again, an expert associate in court has 2.5 thousand marks of salary and no one points to them. This must be settled and these are the principles from which I accept to vote in favour of this amendment, and certainly not because entities are poor and I expect that every transferred authority, every transfer officer to Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget, has no salary and entity. What do people who stayed in entities do, and we have people on the state level? He's not doing the same job for sure.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19795	Thank you. Replica. Tihomir Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19796	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, it's not my custom, but you haven't answered any specific questions, not even my questions. Let's just say why you didn't prepare, but here he is now, and Mr. Chairman, can take over, honoring the House of Representatives' decision when we said we needed to draft a bill, a bill on salaries. And then we systematically solve a lot of things. Secondly, why did you engage in, or perhaps rather, rephrase the question, you should not have counted or entered the budget means in an unconstitutional way. Because so far you have a constitutional norm that regulates this issue and you, I don't know by the pretext that you completely ignored and in an unconstitutional way you want to propose the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You have no right to do that unless you want to face responsibility, the biggest responsibility in this country. So you had to take care of it. And I can't understand that you humiliated this parliament when you said that you MPs who love that law on indirect taxation. I want to tell you that as MPs, we love all the laws we make, we love them equally, and you don't need to draw attention to the MPs only to one law, if you have a certain aversion under that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19797	Thank you. Dr. Lagumdžija has a replica. They're having a discussion, aren't Okay, discussion. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19798	Mr. Chairman, I'm afraid, first we've been waiting for the Prime Minister to come, and that's why we've put this through for the end of whether, we've changed the agenda point and we haven't had a chance to hear it. I hope we don't even need to hear from him, so I'm afraid the minister in all of this has simply led us to talk really who no longer have anything to do with what's on the agenda. And it's set up. Now the thing is, we can get an analysis, but here we get out of the text, even in our own, and especially in English, we see that this applies to people who are functioners under a), and to be more precise, the functioner is the one who has been chosen for a term of 90. And they're no customs officers. So that's what they say when this constitution was written that was 42+15+3 man + in the Council of Ministers 6 and that was all because the governor of the Central Bank was a stranger, we didn't choose him. In time, it may have increased from 65 people to 265 with a mandate, with a mandate. There's 365. Well, well, Azra 300 doesn't change things, but that's a couple of hundred people, but it's not 7,000 people, and that's exactly why unless we accept this today, we're practically giving them the green light so that they can save 10% of the amount of money on a hike that's not on a madden. So for 7.5 thousand people. That 200-300 people are protected by the Constitution so you can't touch it, and all the other 7,000 and change they can shrink by 10%. And I really think that by texting you, if we leave today, it's a disaster both moral and political and other matter. So they could've cut the customs' salary, they could've done anything, so it doesn't matter this point, they couldn't because they couldn't do much. They can't agree that Wednesday is sick. But, I mean, but it's about objectively not adopting this we're giving the green light to get the impression in public now I'm saying that one number doesn't allow us for who knows what reason to touch them, that these two hundred people, a couple hundred people to touch their privileges, and all those other thousands can. I completely agree with everyone's dream, and we're glad the minister here told us that in 20 days we could pass the salary law. But I'm asking you without this constitutional, without this constitutional change of pay law that would say that the head of state is pay number one, and then we'd come to say some regulatory agency, for example. I'm sure he's got a bigger salary than the head of state. It would be against him constitutionally to cut his salary and make the pay law so that it would be reduced. We would have come into a situation that in 20 days, and here there will be nothing in 20 days, but in 120 days when they deliver this law to us, it would surely be against the Constitution. It would be inadmissible, because it would be counter-constitutional, then the head of someone, with the mandate of DGS, administration, etc. Indirect tax administrations, we know, well, the head of the IRS has a salary twice as high as the head of state. When the pay law comes, he'd probably have some coefficient that wouldn't be exactly like who we are, but he would be objectively anti-constitutional tomorrow because of this. That is another reason why, if we are serious people not to accept such an amendment, we under 1. will never come within our mandate or near the adoption of the law we need and under 2. we will all go to the accused, with the right to be a group of people who, for the sake of interest of a few hundred people in this country who have a mandate, have prevented the administration of costs from being reduced. And it wouldn't, so I think it would really be good to do it quietly, quickly and efficiently, and those who have some other fears, so that their vote today could be characterized in a way that they wouldn't like very much, have the opportunity in the House of Peoples to influence their party colleagues to fine-tune it there and go back to the House of Peoples who did this to us all and park it here.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19799	Thank you. A colleague, Novaković, also reported on the discussion. Here you go. 91
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19800	I thank Mr. Chairman, I think how the discussion, or the discussion, is moving away that everything is more foggy. It might be a good idea if the minister no longer explains, because now I'm not, now I'm much more vague than after the first explanation. I'm afraid my colleague Lagumdžija is right when he says what kind of picture he's going to stay in most of the public, I'm not going to tell the whole public, but in most of the public, and that no one is actually more interested in anything more than if we're going to let ourselves get paid or not. I'm afraid I'm saying that's the image that's being created. I have to say I heard from the minister something that I don't understand right now, so it's not about some 7.5 thousand people, it's about 18 thousand cops. It's not just the SIP, it's 18 grand. Is this 18,000 after police reform? I don't know what 18 grand that's about. Is this over for the Council of Ministers of Police Reform? Looks like she's finished for a miniature of finance.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19801	Wait a minute, please listen. Can I have your patience, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19802	And that's one of the reasons why I don't think the finance minister should explain it further, because it'll turn out that if we don't vote, there's no police reform. And that's a very ugly conclusion. So, I've been looking for a break of course, and I'm going to do consultations within the club and with the club, and I have to say that this would be much easier if the Council of Ministers had made a bill of wages, so when we see that law, he said now gentlemen have no law without changing the Constitution. And if that's the case, and I'm saying it would be a lot easier for me to discuss right now, then I don't see why we can't wait 20 days. Here's why we don't wait 20 days to see that pay law, so let's say gentlemen okay, these are salaries, no changes to the Constitution. We've had all the debates, and we're going to make a statement without much discussion, and we're going into the pay law. It'd be easier for me then. I don't, of course, prejudge, but it would be much easier not to me, but it seems to me that one number of us at the time, whether we decide, with much less burden. Of course, you can also consider that as a suggestion, and you can also take it as an unserious discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19803	Announce me. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19804	The speaker of the House, Mr. Nikola Špirić, came forward and has a word. Here you go. 92
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19805	I thank the co-chairing, esteemed colleagues and colleagues rightly fellow Belkić when he says finish and that what luck this would have been over long ago, because we are going to disgust this debate on ourselves and not to say what kind of message we are going to send to the public. Dr Lagumdžija said something about it and confirmed Momčilo Novaković. And the greatest happiness would be for this Parliament and for us all if the public didn't see it today. But it's good to see. It's good to see. If any luck had been at the time of the vote on the budget and when the budget was reduced by 10% and when we were aware of all this, then the initiative on changing the constitution would have come from Parliament to allow the Council of Ministers to complete the budget year without breaking budget spending. We didn't do it. It's okay, but the way we want to ask questions just paints us in the most negative role in the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I can't believe any of us will be able to have the courage if this amendment doesn't pass to appear in front of voters in the next election. What do we tell them? Of course, politics can do anything. In politics you can do anything, but dear colleagues if today, so if today and all these poses, I respect, a break requires SDS so you'll get all the breaks to agree with the clubs. I think it's a mature time to do different dilemmas for a reason, for no reason, I walk Bosnia and Herzegovina like you do. You have comments from people who meet you and say, "Are you right there, sit on your cheek?" That's what they tell us, in front of the hungry people, you're discussing benefits and wages. People don't have all the information. I agree with everyone. Nothing in this country will happen if everyone pays less 30% while unemployment is 50%. And 50% while unemployment is 50%. And let's get this over with. There's no need to argue longer, to vote. We're all going to say what we think of ourselves and the public today. Thank you very much. ________/? [[no microphone turned on]] Well, you can't. I'm being held by voters. It's a waste when I speak their mouths. How can you be so hypocritical, you talk about changing the Constitution, you take it to the level yesterday. So don't fake the public here. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Let's get this situation back. Who's coming forward for the debate? I'm moving Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19807	A comment that could follow is like this – there is no pay law unless this amendment is adopted. Can the Council of Ministers confirm that the salary law will be here within 20 days? Because I'm afraid we're not going to adopt the amendment and then there's not going to be any pay law or anything. Well, don't be, but I want to know that they're under obligation if they tell us here they'll be here in 20 days that it has to be in 20 days. Because we asked for that law, what, two years ago. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19808	Thank you. Who's next to the word? There will be a bill of wages, everything will be, just a little more patience and humanity. No Niko's answering for a hearing. I'm closing the debate. I'm taking a break. How much does the SDS Club want? Ten minutes and we're only going back to the plea. I'm asking you if you need to consult with the Council, with anyone in need of a consult, let them do it. Is there any need for Mr. Novaković from the SDS to explain the reasons for the break? [[PAUZA]] I'm asking the Service to leave Novaković when he's thinking. There's no need. You make the best decision when you don't think. Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19809	I thank you, I will propose a brief conclusion on behalf of the Club. It is therefore up to the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver by the end of September/September 2005 in the parliamentary procedure of the draft law on the salaries of beneficiaries of the BiH institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19810	I only ask you after a statement on the amendment and the fate of the amendments, then we will vote on the conclusion. It's good, sometimes a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19811	There's that conclusion. If not clear
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19812	I didn't win. There you go. Sometimes the conclusion is that extra power. That's always good. Ladies and gentlemen, prepare to vote. So the question is we are voting on the amendment and on the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now and preferably on 2/3 drive. Wow. I'm saying 30 for, zero against, five abstentions. So we have, right Branka 2/3 of the majority. Please, we also have an entity. So the amendment has passed. We also have the ethnic majority, so we have the total majority. So this amendment in the first reading was adopted. 94 Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking a question and prepare to vote. Who's in favour of moving on to the amendment and in the second reading. Let's do the discussion in the second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Please at least two-thirds again. Let's finish our second reading so we don't torture those who had reserves. So 31 for, no one against, two abstentions. I find that we have decided to hold an amendment debate at the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the second reading. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're going to a plea. Who's in favour of adopting the amendment to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now and please at least one against if no one will, I will. So 31 for, no one against, five abstentions. So we adopted the amendment and the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the second reading. I thank you for your patience, for the tolerance of the debate, sometimes the bile debate, but all this is appropriate for our parliamentary life. And we are now pleading on the conclusion on the proposal of the HDZ Democratic Club, if I speak correctly. Proposal for a conclusion – The BiH Council of Ministers is required to deliver the draft law on the salaries of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget by the end of September 2005. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that with 36 for, zero against, zero abstentions, the adopted conclusion of the HDZ-de-Christians Club is. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed the 13th agenda. We move to the 14th item of the agenda, which is I welcome, of course, and thank you for the presence of the Council of Ministers and Ministers of the Council of Ministers. That's Ad.14. The resolution of the global call for action against poverty, submitted by Member Dušanka Majkić, you received a resolution, you received an amendment from Mr Momčilo Novaković to this resolution. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mrs. Majkić. Here you go. 95
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19813	...that it's okay. The second point is the same in Mr. Novaković's amendment and mine, but the third point is not, probably Mr. Novaković did not understand what it was about. The third point is not actively involving civil society in this process. What process? Someone actively involves civilians in society in formulating policy and plan development priorities. This can be thrown out nationalally, if this bothers and remains a sentence means which one should read – actively involve civil society in the formulation of policy and plan development priorities. The next point four is the same. And the fifth one you threw out, I don't think it should be thrown out. It can be corrected again on this section that applies to the national level. I meant the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but where every nation has its own protection, but to implement the policy act that will benefit most citizens. I mean, there's no such thing as trying to reduce the free damage caused by externally imposed conditions. These are the conditions, for example. which imposes upon us VTOs that we must respect, which means that we must not increase customs duties, and that is not the case with us, because we are the country to be protected. Poor country. So I think you can throw out this part of the text that says at the national level and everything else to stay. I think you should.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19814	I agree with my colleague Novaković. I think it's a good resolution, a good text that can't harm our country, and I think it's good to send a clear message. Do you accept this alignment between you and Dušanka Majkić on this amendment? If you agree, we have no other reason not to support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19815	I'd really like to ask again, if it's not a problem, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19816	No, it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19817	Since I've been watching, I have to be honest with this last part of this attitude that's not very complex lexographically, so if it can't be a problem to hear again.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19818	I told you this point 3 in order because you proposed to stand – actively involve civil society in this process. What process? It's unclear, this is with you, 96, this formulation of yours is unclear. I think it should stay – actively involve civil society in formulating policy and plan development priorities. And I think that's okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19819	That's the same thing, Momo.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19820	That's one thing. And in the end, we disagree. You have proposed to throw out the 5th, and I say this is essential, that this national level can be thrown out, and that it remains to be implemented in the policy area of which most citizens will benefit and that it seeks to reduce unnecessary damage caused by externally imposed conditions. I've explained what externally imposed conditions are related to.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19821	Mr. Novaković agrees with this change. I think she's logical.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19822	...that means, you just want to confirm that this third part is so that you can read, watch this actively involve society in this process. It's thought of the process we've been talking about all along. So action against poverty. That's what you're thinking. Now your position is, just a little bit, your position is therefore – actively involving civil society in the formulation of policy and plan development priorities. Okay. I can do that, development policies, it says here, watch your politics in multiple areas, I guess. I can accept this. And I'm also reading now the last request of yours to resort to policy action from politics, in fact, which will benefit most citizens, etc. etc. I can accept this attitude. So as far as I'm concerned, these amendments to the resolution have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19823	Thank you. I'd like to pray, in a word, that it's a useful document, if we could just calm down the experience now, that we don't make 10 new ones out of this resolution. Any sentence can be different, it may be a better formulation, but it's a common useful document that has been adopted by all other countries so we don't stay away. I accept this alignment between colleagues Novaković and Dušanka, I think it is useful, and please colleagues, here I won't. Here you go. Here's the first one.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19824	Just one... in this position to stand as I read – more qualitative public services and the implementation of policies that will benefit most citizens. Please politics 97 has no plural and therefore I suggest it stands – public services and policy implementation that will benefit most citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19825	They have different policies on poverty that you act on.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19826	Well, don't make it any different. A different kind of policy is being conducted, and no, there is no policy. It can't be a pants.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19827	Please, the lecturer will dress up. Each of our texts is lectured, if it's a lecturer's remark, please make it right. Please, Jelina, accept. Mr. Belkić, Dr. Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19828	It's very difficult to discuss after your recommendation that I fully understand. However, I want two things to say, this resolution is the product of the total action that is being led in the world. So the world runs a global action. We're running away from the term national. Well, we're not gonna say the word national. And can we say state... That's what this is about. So these aren't partial resolutions, they're isolated, they're part of the global global action made up of states. They say national programmes, they mean state programmes, etc. So there are no national programmes of Serbs, Croats and Bosniaks, etc. Bosnia and Herzegovina's participation in a global fight against poverty is considered. By ousting that meaning, we weaken this resolution. As far as I'm concerned, so you don't upset people, so you don't cause a problem, I'll vote whatever you do. But I warn you, this is how we weaken the entire action.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19829	Thank you. Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19830	Thank you. Dear Members of the College, colleagues and colleagues, I will only mention that as someone who knows the Millennium Development Goals of Resolutions is made entirely in spirit and even in the language of the Millennium Development Goals. Every change that is, I fully understand the remarks, that is, what, although I am unclear why the amendment to the resolution. It doesn't exist. But Mr. Novaković's suggestions, but the notion of a national here, this is what counterpart Beriz mentioned, the Millennium Development Goals of the obligation, i.e. the commitment of states and the concept of the national default of the state. A national economy or anything else, of course not in this understanding of our national. 98 I just want to say that this formula that is original in the resolution is fully in the spirit of the Millennium Development Goals. And of course they're developmental, developmental policies, monetary development and fiscal and every other economic, social, etc. policy can be part of development policy. That's exactly what you're thinking here. And I would also like to remind you that this item 3 for those who may have some concerns or possibly forgetfulness, we have fully included civil society in the formulation of development priorities, policies and plans when drawing up a strategy against poverty according to the methodology prescribed.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19831	Thank you. Who's next to the word? kolega Novaković, I would only ask that we bring the end. We've done a lot of work today.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19832	That in the largest number of nations in the world, the nation is a country such as in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the nation is not the same. So that's a fact. Now it's not that. Even if it says state here, I'll read you the meaning of just one thing, and you'll see. Let's say in that proposal, Ms. Majkić wrote, I'll read one sentence in Section 3, where she says -- in support of a global action to fight poverty, we demand that the Millennium Development Goals be applied at all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Be careful, please, and say before that at all levels of government. The other thing is, I agree that, but in the organization itself, watch out for her at all levels, and not just at the state level with us, and that's because of that, and not because of some animosity now that she's not writing the state's. So you understand why I put this amendment into place. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19833	I thank my colleague Novaković. I'm just asking that, please, it's good to explain people no one has any serious disputes about this. So counterpart Belkić is right, and Momo is right when he explains. It's going to take some more time for this short story of ours, but they will, time will make them pointless. But if you don't have a colleague of Jelena's, you don't have any fundamental objection. Don't lecture, there'll be lecturing material where the decimal should be put, there'll be a point, where politics, there'll be politics. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19834	I want him to say it anyway. We're guards here, I guess. There's a lot of things that shouldn't have gotten in our language. I wouldn't really explain right now what a plural tantum is or what a singular tantum is. But believe me, if I say it's good to say policy 99, then qualifications with that noun, rather than policies that we translate so selectively from foreign languages. I'm asking you to be careful. As the goods have infiltrated our language, any, as you wish to name it, rather than the slave. You know. I really, you see that I don't want to hold here right now, for these two and a half years I haven't kept language stories, but please when I say something then it's not irrelevant. I know it's a practice already to show up politics and this and that, but that's not good. And I can't say it every time.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-08-31-0.u19835	Okay. Not every time. Stay away from me sometime. Thank you very much. Nobody's answering any more. I'm closing the debate. Let's make a statement. You heard the alignment of these remarks, Novaković and Dušanka agreed. That's nice to meet you. Prepare to vote. Who's in favor of accepting this resolution with these corrections that both have been accepted? Vote now. For 28, no one against, no one abstention. I find that we unanimously accepted the resolution, or adopted the resolution a global call for action against poverty. Thank you very much. I thank you for your patience, your correct, your patient work, your little raised tone, but this is Parliament's fate. I'm informing you, prepare for the next session of September 16th. You'll get the agenda. Be prepared to be a correction of the agenda, as we expect important legal projects. And what is prepared will be delivered. The session ended at 5:15 p.m.
