ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u4998	Dear delegates, honored guests, esteemed representatives of public information funds, esteemed representatives of the Council of Ministers, I welcome you all and open the 50th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Today's session is attended by 14 delegates. Of which 5 from the Bosniak people, 4 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serb people. Mr. Spajić is absent justifiably, justifying his absence. For the 50th session, I propose the next agenda; Agenda 1. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina, following an urgent procedure under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House For this opportunity as you know we only have one item on the agenda and here, that's our proposal. Are there other requirements to put something on the agenda? As far as I can tell, it's gone. Thank you very much. So we're adopting a single-point agenda like this. The first item of the agenda is, Ad.1. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina, subject to an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the BiH Parliament in accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House decide on a request for the Law to be considered in accordance with this Article after the debate. The House of Representatives passed this law, and here I am arguing whether we will adopt this law by emergency procedure. Here's a word from Minister Halilović. Mr. Halilović, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u4999	The Honorable House Presidency, respected advocates, the Law on Citizenship, as you know, have established committees tasked with reviewing citizenship. However, due to insufficiently clear powers and procedures for revising the status of 2 naturalised states, it has fallen into a kind of blockade that Parliament has discussed on several occasions. This law amends and complements the Law on Citizenship, practically unblocks the process of reviewing naturalised citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It establishes a State Commission for the Review of Decisions on the Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens and gives clear authority to this Commission. The Commission consists of 9 members of which 6 members from Bosnia and Herzegovina and according to the parity principle of representation and 3 members are foreigners. The Commission shall decide by consensus in the review procedure. The aim is to finally resolve issues of naturalised citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who are not citizens of the former SFRY in accordance with the law, and to consider citizenship granted from 1992 until the adoption of this law in the revision process. The citizens' audit refers to naturalised persons whose home number has not been allocated in the former Yugoslavia until 6 April 1992. The audit of allocated citizenship also applies to persons who have been granted citizenship and who have changed the unique home number, i.e. to which a new single home number has been allocated. The composition and mandate of the Commission is clearly defined and the audit process is scheduled to be completed within a year. It is also clear that decisions by the Council of Ministers, which have been authorised to withdraw citizenship in the case of a conviction, as well as decisions by the Commission in the review procedure, cannot be made by the appeal, but it is possible to launch an administrative dispute before the competent Court of BiH. In order to adopt the Law until the anniversary of the signing of the Peace Agreement for BiH, as well as the urgent launch of the Commission's work, the Council of Ministers set out a proposal and asked the Parliamentary Assembly to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. The urgency of the procedure is necessary to address the issue of reviewing naturalised citizens of BiH as quickly as possible, resolving this issue creates assumptions for removing certain suspicions of a security character, and the assumption is to facilitate the visa regime for BiH citizens. Finally, I am convinced that the adoption of amendments to the Law and the effective work of the Commission for the revision of citizenship will finally remove all security dilemmas that have repeatedly raised the issue of naturalised citizens who are not from the area of the former SFRY. I therefore propose to the House of People to adopt amendments and supplement the Law on Citizenship in the form in which it is offered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5000	Thank you, Mr. Halilović. We heard the presentation of Mr. Halilović, based on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law. Is there anyone else we can see, do we report to see if we're going to discuss an emergency procedure like this? I'm asking to put it on, so I'm going to put this debate to a vote, this law of urgency. 3 Who's in? Vote now. So I'd say according to this scheme that it's unanimous. So, we've adopted to consider the law by emergency procedure. I'm opening a debate on the law. Is anyone picking up? Mr. Limov, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5001	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the Presidents, the esteemed representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of international institutions and public information funds, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, of course, since it is a specific procedure when we talk about the way we're going to plead on this law, there is no too much need to enter into the very essence. I have answered first of all to say that I will support this law, because it is perfectly understandable to me that the constitutional foundation around which there is no dilemma, as well as the reasons for the adoption of this law, and I personally estimate that this is the way to make assumptions that this law, which is otherwise foreseen on a certain deadline as I understand it. So, the Commission's work would be related to next year but it is also envisaged that the decision of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly will allow both homes to possibly extend the deadline to this commission depending on the dynamics, modes of work, the problems they face, the volume, etc. So in that sense, I appreciate that this law meets above all our needs, although I must admit that this one-third of the people who will be representatives of the international community, I have a certain dilemma, but I wouldn't be troublesome right now, let's do this the way it goes. So I'm going to Glasać for the law the way it was proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5002	Thank you, Mr. Limov. Is anyone else picking up? Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5003	I welcome the draft law amending the Law on Citizenship for the simple reason that I appreciate that this way of amending this law will help to resolve a large number of ambiguities of issues, delicate issues in the best possible way. I think it will take one burden off of BiH and its citizens in the best way possible in a way that the Commission, which I believe will work consciously, respecting criteria and certain standards, and that this burden that has long existed on BiH will finally be lifted. So, I support this law, the bill on amendments to the Law on Citizenship.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5004	Thank you very much, Mr. Genjac. Is anyone else picking up? Mr. Đoko, 4
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5005	Mr. Chairman, colleagues, delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I would very little, only a little comment on Mr. Lim's remarks, of course I welcome the adoption of this law in any case, and I support its adoption by an urgent procedure, in the hope that this problem of naturalised citizens, which in the last 5 or 10 years has been a lot of words in public, in means of information, and finally to resolve all this to remove that blockade that already existed on the issue in the past work of all institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, Mr. Limov gave the fermentation of these international members of the Commission. Of course, I've always been against international representatives setting us up for fate, so that we should solve it ourselves, these three people within BiH all our problems and dilemmas, but it was obvious that it couldn't have been done so far and it would seem that it was the only way to bring international representatives into this, that this problem could finally be resolved and that it was precisely the only right way to do so, and that this is all the order and composition of the Commission and everything as these members of the amendment and addition of this law provide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5006	Thank you, Mr. Pajić. For the word "fucked," is it a replica or what? Here you go, Mr. Limov. Limov has a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5007	I didn't think I'd have to explain, but here, I'll be very direct. I smatrmti that one member of the Commission is sufficient, since in the way of decision-making, therefore also by consensus, and bearing in mind the sum of 100,000 converting marks, and therefore I have warned of this, it is provided here in an explanation that for the implementation of this law these funds were provided and therefore I personally estimate that there could be a different relationship and I did not speak of the need to exclude representatives of the international community.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5008	Thank you, Mr. Limov. Here's the explanation. Mr. Jukić answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5009	Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, here is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of BiH, and Article 1 is called here on 5 laws, i.e. earlier amendments and additions. So, what does that mean? That we've been dealing with this issue in continuity for eight years and we can't find a solution to this. So here's a question for all of us, to ask ourselves a little bit instead of my comment on, but no matter what it is, I absolutely welcome and support our determination to finally resolve this issue, because there are really a lot of questions in BiH that have been waiting for their solution for no reason. One of those questions I think is that this question is also a very small number of those who oppose the final solution to this issue. 5 This question is so often in some kind of conversation, especially unofficially, lately becoming more and more frequent and official or semi-served, that it has actually become an inevitable topic and often when someone does not have something, perhaps specifically, to transfer Bosnia and Herzegovina, to its institutions, and thus to the peoples and citizens whether, then a little mention is made of this issue. And that's why I think it's high time for this to really be solved in one correct way. And I'm glad that here are my colleagues who called, absolutely expressed their support and support, to get rid of this. And if this solution is again defined as the final solution to this problem, I want to believe it is. And this issue with the commission's mandate, I think it has been settled in a satisfactory way, so it is said that it is a year, so this solution presupposes it to be done within a year, with the possibility of, of course, allowing the BiH Parliament to extend that mandate if necessary. But hoping it won't be necessary, and that's why I think this, this formulation and this solution is even good. So she's saying what her ambition at what time to do it is, if it's not possible then extend the mandate anyway. Here, I haven't said anything new except for this, maybe I should conclude, and what I need to get back to you, which is that maybe we should take more care when a certain legal project, sometimes it seems to us maybe something... simple, but let's consider all aspects of the problem that needs to be solved. And then I'm sure there will be more effective solutions to the law and will allow better and better quality solutions to pre-arranged issues, not that every little we go with interventions, amendments and additions to the law in order to fix a solution to a certain law. Here's another time, and congratulations to all of us on the composition of this committee. Do we need these strangers? Well, they're included in most of our most important institutions, so here's the spirit of that and that, if they're going to give support to the better work of the Commission, I don't mind, and I hope that the commission will work successfully and efficiently and address these issues. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5010	Thank you, Mr. Jukić. Is there anyone else on the line? As far as I can tell, Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5011	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, respected present, I join all those who have said that this law should be passed. Not because he was proposed on time, but because I guess this is the last minute to finally put this on the agenda and come in a position to finally have a solution and a final position. I must admit, I am concerned with this dilemma presented by my colleague Jukić, that as he says, on what basis we know this will finally be. If that's really how it is, then I'm really worried. But here I have hope and belief that this will be the last change in this matter, the last formation of the commission, and that commission will finish the job. I agree with my colleague, Jukić, that this issue with the right sometimes and without the right to at times has been used in both domestic and international relations, according to BiH citizens or BiH institutions, and that it is indeed time for this issue to be resolved in a way of one 6 objective fact-checking, establishing facts in relation to the law and making final decisions based on the law, in relation to each case individually. I say, I think that the composition, which provides for representatives of the Council of Ministers, is the intended experts, as I understand it, are people who work in institutions but who understand this issue and, of course, representatives of the international community. I don't think they're proposed, it would be bad and we should suggest them for a very simple reason. This job is needed for us but it is necessary to show ourselves how things are and so that those who communicate with us, so where we want to travel, give an opportunity to have an idea of who can really have and who could have and how he could get BiH citizenship. And to remove this issue, as one of the possible obstacles to resolution, I would not say if Minister Halilović was very precise, he said, to facilitate the visa regime. In that case, I'm very sad if this serves to facilitate the visa regime. Then what will be more demands to come to a change in the visa regime. I mean, what other things we have to do. Maybe it would be good if we put all these things here, and suddenly we solve all the problems, so let's say it takes us two more years and finally solve it and then we move on. I know, there will be stories of our unemployment, others defending themselves from eventually going out there to work there, etc. All that can be the reason, most of it isn't. However, it is very important to do this in this respect to the countries, the initiative, or the proposal to amend this law in the belief that it will be a final change of law and solution. I would eventually ask three questions, one who knows how to answer these three questions in this room. First of all, how many of these cases this law refers to, this amendment to the law. I don't mean the decimal point, but here, let's say one reasonable number, so, about how many of these cases are there? Secondly, where are the data on these cases, or are they just now going to look for information on these cases and potentially controversial? And third, what will happen to the results and decisions of the Commission that she's been doing so far? Do they respect each other and move on, or is it all done from the beginning? Here, that's three of my questions, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5012	Thank you very much. Here you go, buddy. A fellow Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5013	First question, how many such objects there are. The number of persons to be numbered will be subject to the review of naturalisation in terms of these amendments. So far, we've recorded about 1200 somewhere. It can be expected in some wartime that we'll get some new numbers but I don't think the total number will cross 1500. 7 As far as the question is concerned, what will happen to the decisions of the Commission that have worked so far. The Commission that has worked so far has been formed by the Council of Ministers. He didn't have the authority to measure his decision. She had one consulting function and she was formed in one period when co-operation, so the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Federal MUP was to say, at an envious level. That's when Mr. Limov was in the Federal MUP, and we have a lot of solved cases in that period. Therefore, given that the urgency of resolving this problem has also been approached by these amendments which, therefore, give authority to this state commission which will be formed, give the authority to make a measure of decision on the withdrawal or confirmation of that nationality. That was another question. Excuse me, if it's not a problem, just a third question. Most of this information is available to us in the Department of Citizenship and Travel Administration of the Ministry of Civil Affairs. One significant part of these items in his archives has the Federal MUP. So we are, possibly another community of two, expecting some data to be compiled, archived, entered into the database, and this job can most likely be expected to be completed in one 10 days.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5014	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5015	You said, you have a piece of data you, part of the Federal MuP. Does this mean that cases like this, so there are no cases to which this law applies and regarding records at the RS MUP?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5016	Be careful, it was at the beginning of work, if you remember the first Commission. I think the total somewhere around 10 cases were, which were the subject of analysis and that it was taken away, I can't remember exactly now, but we can deliver precise data. I think one number has been taken away from citizenship. So, already in the work of the first Commission taken away, on the basis of a public call to the persons who were the subject of analysis, they did not respond, they were deprived of citizenship and it became a forceful one.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5017	You didn't answer my question. So you said that the Commission had worked and had no power to decide but had the power to propose, if I understood. And then, based on these proposals, some decisions were made and some earlier citizenship decisions were lifted. Right?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5018	Yeah. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5019	I'm interested now, what's going to happen to those cases? Will this commission now and these cases be searched or will they be considered final? Because according to how I read this amendment and the supplement, this refers to those in the period after 6 April 2002 and before 1 January 2006. So, what's it gonna be?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5020	The subject matter of the analysis will be those cases where the decision to confiscate has not become effective. So where faces filed a possible complaint, they'll be subject to analysis. So where they're not properly completed, it's going to be an object of analysis, because otherwise if we didn't cover it, the job wouldn't be fully done.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5021	Just one more addition to this answer of yours, that is, questions. In Article 8 of this Amendment and Supplement, you do not need to have, I will read it to you. According to Article 41(1), paragraph 1 is amended and reads, the Commission is considering the status of persons who have acquired citizenship by naturalisation and which, now important, which have not previously been granted a single parent wrinkle JMB in the post-April 6th of '92. a before 1 January 2006. And then, in the next member, he says, in c, in case of non-existentity, then citizenship will be taken away in cases of the team, team and team, so he says, in the event of a real relationship between BiH and a citizen who does not normally reside in BiH. Does this mean, then, that this applies to those who did not live in BiH until '92. By April 6, '92, because they didn't, they didn't have a relationship with Bosnia and Herzegovina, or doesn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5022	Practically, this formulation is going to focus on the subjects of citizenship, the admission of citizenship, therefore, outside of the Yugoslav space.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5023	But it doesn't say anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5024	So be careful, it says through the formulations, it has a unique birth number assigned to it, etc. So, the faces that, just a little bit to try to explain to you,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5025	The unique birth number was not allocated in Yugoslavia, but was assigned individually in each republic.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5026	Be careful, therefore, that all persons who had a unique birth number assigned to them in the former Yugoslavia, so they didn't get it again, they kept an old number and that's the formula that distinguishes it. So, the subject of the analysis will not be persons who are from the former ex-Yugoslav space, but persons who are outside the Yugoslav space. So, when he gained 9 citizenship in BiH, he had to if it was a classical stranger, he had to get a home number.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5027	In other words, this means that now, a Macedonian citizen can appear at this time who, because this is still a Macedonian citizen and become a BiH citizen. Excuse me. Secondly, by which one citizen of Slovenia who may have been skiing twice or never entered BiH or Macedonia, in the case of a relationship, has a real relationship between BiH, I think what has the real connection to what he was in Yugoslavia?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5028	You see, this formula of a real relationship,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5029	There's something not clear about it. I'm telling you that we're going to have these serious problems, that your interpretation will have very serious problems further, we can act like this, like, if someone comes to the Constitutional Court, this issue will be very serious. So, the formulation in this previous one, look, I'm not talking about anything else, not about decisions, but about this one, about this particular proposal. In Article 8, it is said fine, citizenship in the period from up to, and then in the next 41c) in the case of no real relationship. So how are we going to interpret the concept of a real relationship between BiH and him?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5030	So listen, let me tell you, the draft changes make it clear. So, if they didn't sign up, so they didn't have a residence application, they didn't take out their ID card, they didn't take out their passport, it's clear that those faces have no effective relationship with Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this total number of these cases that will be the subject of analysis, there is a very large number of persons who absolutely no practical relationship with BiH, even question whether they have received those solutions etc. Thus, the sum of these cases is currently related to persons who had no real ties with BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5031	I'll finish here after,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5032	It'd be good.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5033	Your interpretation that seems clear and logical to you, but it doesn't seem clear to me, but yes, logical. However, it does not seem clear about this. How will you establish a connection, for example, between one of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, who, by the year '92, lived in the Republic of Croatia and then in '92? So, at some point, he moved to Bosnia and Herzegovina? Which is the basis of this, this real connection. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5034	I don't know, therefore, the text of this law goes to the point of analysis, so the subject matter of the Commission's review is not those persons. Be careful, meanwhile, so if you remember the debate over the work of the first Commission report, in the meantime some things have happened, so we have a contract with Serbia-Montenegro that has long been effective, we have a contract with Croatia soon. So these are the two new moments that make it clear that these are two different legal situations, to treat persons from the former Yugoslav space and persons outside the Yugoslav space.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5035	.../distant from the microphone/...simply reason, BiH became internationally recognised in early '92. in May at the latest in April or May. Since then, it has been an independent state like Croatia before, such as Slovenia, such as Serbia, Macedonia, etc. After that period, there were, therefore, arrivals from the area of the former Yugoslavia, people, persons who had a unique home number, who had not lived in BiH until then, did not carry the SRBiH home number and do not refer to these and at the same time, this notion of real connection remains here. I'm talking about the danger, that there's a danger that tomorrow this formulation is going to be a problem. It's the essence of the story, nothing more. So if you'd said legal ground, but the concept of real connection is, the concept of real connection can be quite subjective and there's a problem. Because you know better than I do, that if someone lives in BiH, they've lived so much, if they're married to a BiH citizen, married to a BiH citizen, etc. Well period, and these are all legally clean categories, clear categories, but right now, this term and these facts there, could cause some problems.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5036	So listen, in fact, these are two different situations. A man who is not registered at the CIPS base, who has not drawn an ID card, which has no passport, has no practical connection with BiH. The second is a legal situation and indeed there will be one difficulty in deciding in the legal status when it comes to their citizenship of persons living here, who are married. So that's where two practical basics are accumulated. The basis by which that person was given citizenship and a factical basis that is said to be marriage. So, if you have carefully read this text, it is said if the person in BiH has met the conditions in the meantime, so if there was a lack of reception, it has met the conditions for obtaining citizenship, so marriage is one of the basics of getting citizenship, during a certain period of time in BiH, if the positive legal requirements regarding applying are respected, it is quite one another, culminating in these cases another legal basis. So I don't see any misunderstandings in that part.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-16-0.u5037	Thank you very much. I think, Hasmo, please, is there anyone else to answer for? There isn't. 11 I am putting on the vote of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of BiH. Please vote now. So we unanimously adopted amendments and additions to the Proposal for a Law on Citizenship. Dear colleagues, I thank you for this occasion for coming to this session in this issue, this was a bit of a strange situation when we had to hold a session because of some of BiH's obligations to international institutions. And now, let me announce to you that the session will be on November 28th, second session, we have many more of these, many, many, many points of the agenda to solve, so I hope you get a call for the 28th. Thank you. I wish you good luck and good luck.
