ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18496	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 59th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly. Dear colleagues and fellow Members, honored guests, media representatives, representatives of the Council of Ministers, I welcome you once again and I agree that today's session is attended by a sufficient number of MPs and that we have conditions for full work and decision-making. The absence from today's session was justified by MPs, Mr Abdulah Nakaš, who also in writing informed the chairman and this parliament that he was on treatment in Germany. We wish him a quick recovery and return to Bosnia and Herzegovina and the taking over of office in this parliament and Mrs Senija Kapetanović justified the absence. Other colleagues who are not present here, or are in Parliament's building and are expected to enter the session hall at any moment, or will appear during the session, or perhaps subsequently execute justice. But this is what we have so far as justice. In any case, at this point in the hall, there are 33 MPs with enough entity majority saying we have conditions for full work and decision-making. Dear colleagues and colleagues, you have been given a draft agenda for today's session, and in relation to this draft agenda, the College and the Enlarged College have agreed and you can consider this the item of the agenda that will not be voted on. This is the second item of the agenda – Confirming the appointment of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Deputy Foreign Minister. It is therefore a decision of both the College and the College in an extended composition. Also for today's session we have received two resolutions on Srebrenica. Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić's resolution and Mr. Elmir Jahić's resolution. July 11th marks the tenth anniversary of the Srebrenica genocide, and I believe this parliament should adopt a resolution, as parliaments of other countries and many institutions have already appeared on this largest genocide in Europe since World War II until today. We have two resolutions and, of course, I will, acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to implement the procedure when it comes to these two resolutions, because there was no agreement in the College to get it right into the agenda, but it is possible to go into the agenda by respecting the procedure of the Rules of Procedure of our House. And the third thing I'm proposing is actually the next thing the House is going to have to declare on the agenda is the issue of forming a joint commission to bring Bosnia and Herzegovina's Law on Railways into line. You know we passed this law at the last session. The people's home today is due to adopt the law, but yesterday the committee responsible for the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina adopted certain improvements in the text of that law that do not affect the very essence of the law. We thought that, and we have a call from the OHR of that kind that today at the beginning of the session, that we form this committee, that we wait for the House of Peoples to finish their work, to form a commission and that by the end of this session, the Commission, because it is not about the important changes to finish our work, and that, in the end, we have the last item of the agenda and the report of the Commission and today, practically at both homes, there are laws adopted and I will propose today, so I'm actually proposing, we will plead here, because we have not therefore reached agreement, because the House of Nations has really not finished its part of the work. So that's a fact. But it is certain that the House of Nations cannot pass the law in any other text than that proposed by the Commission. So it can't be the same text with our home. To appoint this committee today at the beginning of the session, to wait for the House of Peoples to finish their work, after today is the meeting of the House of Peoples, that he too appoints his commission. That the commission sits down, because it is not about important differences and that at the end of today's sessions we adopt the reports of the commission and we already have the conditions tomorrow for the two chairmans to sign the law and put it to the announcement in "The Official Messenger of BiH". That's what the opening part is about what I needed to tell you. Now I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Mr. Elmir Jahić answered first. After that, Mr. Nikola Špirić, Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18497	Thank you. Dear Members of the College, dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman has said enough about the agenda point I would like to propose, which is the Srebrenica Resolution. Namely, everyone knows that this July 11th is the 10th anniversary of the Bosniak Bošnjak, the UN's protected zone in Srebrenica. I hope that this House, after 10 years, will get the strength to look the truth into the eyes and will bring, or that it will support this single resolution, especially when we have in mind that many and international institutions, particularly institutions in charge of the qualification of this crime genocide, have therefore said several of their verdicts, because it is a genocide and unfortunately in the protected zone of the UN. I believe that we should have, that this Parliament should have brought some resolution before, some other act in this sense where it was meant to condemn the genocide that happened, because you know that about 8,000 people were killed in a few days and that it was indeed the greatest mass crime since World War II and here on the ground of Europe. Even more so contributes to decisions, here I see the American Senate and Congress, and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, whose member we are. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe that was on this background and have adopted similar resolutions. That is why I believe that MPs should support the inclusion of this resolution in the agenda and today we should adopt this resolution. It will be a clear signal to establish the trust and reconciliation of citizens in these areas and to look the truth in the eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18498	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Špirić. Have Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18499	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed fellow Members of Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I will, of course, say what I think about the agenda, and I will suggest perhaps a new item of the agenda that I have not talked about on the short and extended college for reasons that, given the kind of work that has been going on and the activities that have been going on lately, and I suppose it will not, there would be no agreement. In fact, we all know that Bosnia and Herzegovina's public is informed that it knows that we are the only country in Europe and the world in which Parliament, the state parliament, has been sitting, or has held meetings more often than the Council of Ministers for almost two months. And it is a miracle in front of the public that we in Parliament just don't feel the need for anyone to talk to the public about what's going on within the Council of Ministers, whether there's a crisis or no crisis? We are holding a session of Parliament today, while for four days we have a tent settlement in front of Parliament that has no information on whether anyone from the state has spoken to the protesting people, whether it's people whose reasons for the protest are real, or whether it's a tourist association. I don't know if the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina thinks it's sending a serious message to the democratic world and to the citizens it represents. So you see democratic countries such as Italy and Spain and other real measures to combat natural disasters, fires, floods. Here, it seems, the government needs to declare itself a elemental 4 disaster in order to defend itself against an elemental disaster called the Bosnia and Herzegovina executive power. Is there more, ladies and gentlemen, to underestimate this House than to flee from its conclusions? I warned this parliament and the last time I remained abstentioned and did not vote for a conclusion because then an alibi was made to the Council of Ministers and if a conclusion was adopted that within 15 days the chairman should come and inform us, to inform us whether the crisis had been changed, in which way it was overcome. It's about technical mandates. It's about the transfer of jurisdiction to deputies or ministerial assistants, that nobody, almost anyone is interested. And that's why I'm proposing a agenda point, the first item of the agenda to inform us whether the crisis has been overcome or not. What awaits us and how we will welcome the 2006 elections, or this has become, is simply building an ambience for us all to roll in the same mud. Adnan can't go with Mladen. Mladen can't go with Adnan. People have led the atmosphere to general mistrust within the Council of Ministers, and only the parliamentary majority of this Parliament agree that everything is well and you can think of what kind of hypocrisy is to what is called a living man, a pensioner, a citizen, etc. Do we really think there's nothing to say today? Is the presidency's position to be heard saying that it is high time for the Council of Ministers to work. And that's a message that should comfort the public. Niko one asks why the Council doesn't work. Who's responsible for not working? There seems to be divisions between Srbin, Bošnjak and Hrvat. Which of God's ministers doesn't work. Instead of sending the invoice to an address that's the real address for that invoice. So I'm looking for that first item of the agenda. It is quite, I cannot influence, of course, whether MPs will accept or not, but today we have a chance to send a message as to whether we are part of the Council of Ministers' policy as it is or not that citizens know what they are doing. Another thing, of course, and I insist on respecting the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament which I disagree with, which is that today we appoint a commission before the House of Peoples takes any position on the Law on Railways, regardless of what OHR insists. Ladies and gentlemen, we must protect the integrity of this house, and it is protected only by the preservation and application of its own rules of procedure. I don't mind, and I don't know what kind of remarks, which the Commission's objections have accepted, the competent committee of the House of Peoples, but the moment the House of Peoples ends, we have a business opportunity to form a commission, that she finishes her work in one day and adopts this parliament in five or ten days. I think we're making a smaller mistake than breaking the Rules of Procedure and doing it today, if the House's integrity is protected. So, I'm not going to support that proposal, and I'm sorry that they're putting us in this situation to break our own rules and that OHR is suggesting it. Because there seem to be institutions here for which nothing matters either the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure or Parliament, and that simply 5 with silent whispers, without, in the way that the ear accepts that whisper, try to determine things within the state parliament. So I only intervene this with the aim of preserving Parliament's integrity. And when it comes to the resolution, in fact two resolutions on Srebrenica, I must say that every citizen, and not to speak of us who are MPs, must make sure that he chooses the words about Srebrenica, not to say any more, for the sake of sacrifice, because of what was happening in Srebrenica, because of what is waiting for us and which means the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and therefore I ask you to understand my intervention. I wish there was only one resolution in this House. Given that they have two resolutions and that they want to achieve any single position of this Parliament, I must say, with full respect for the victims and those who expect any state parliament's position to be much wiser, much smarter, that it is in the interest of Srebrenica and Srebrenica that this resolution goes to the commission, that club presidents are seriously sitting in the time ahead and that they try to reach a joint document. I agree that the resolution that the congress was bringing in is important, that it's important, that it's for someone like this or something, but the American Congress brought in that resolution. It cannot mean anything to us living in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I ask you, therefore, to understand this intervention only in this sense in order to come together to something that can be called the common position of the state parliament. That's much better than opening a political debate today, with the result being absolutely different within national clubs. And that would be the ugliest message to Srebrenica and srebreničan. So I ask this home today to be at the height of the task of not politicizing the crime in Srebrenica, that if, after all, we will see how many responsible people are here who are willing to work on it. Not a resolution that adds a political dimension to helping the srebreničan people I meet in Sarajevo are the heads on the verge of misery and is said to be talked about only politically. So I am for the resolution to be discussed, to try within the clubs to get to a unique position. I am a sign that today we have received two resolutions, one of Mr. Moranjkić, one from the SDA Club is a sign that it is not one resolution even within one constituent people. So I suggest that this goes to the commission as well as all resolutions so far without comparing the weight and importance of the resolution, not avoiding even the tenth as an important date, but those who want to sit in that space can seriously talk about Srebrenica and the resolutions that are here. So that's my point of view, because I don't want to stay unspeakable on any matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18500	Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić. Have Mr. Milorad Živković prepare himself. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18501	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, for hearing that I brought to parliamentary procedure yesterday a motion for a resolution on genocide in Srebrenica and Bosnia and Herzegovina. We launched a written initiative a few months ago to the Presidency of this country that it was manifested in the form of a resolution that was, in our opinion, some of the most normal course of taking this country's stance towards this event. However, we have experienced a certain kind of neglect by the Presidency and a sensual acceptance or not accepting our initiative, which is why after a long time of waiting in the parliamentary procedure yesterday, we have released a motion for our resolution that is approximately identical and that I do not say identical to the text almost unanimously brought by the United States Senate, and almost identically accepted by the United States Congress. This proposal was presented primarily by the relevant facts of the sequence of events in Srebrenica and the consequences of these events that have been uncontested and proven, and that the Senate and Congress have confirmed and almost simply accepted that resolution and normally, I agree with Špirić that such a resolution cannot be ignored or put into effect. The resolution honours all victims of aggression, genocide in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and indicates that all persons responsible for the crime against humanity and genocide must be brought to justice and punished, calling on all countries of the world, especially from the environment to co-operate with The Hague Court. This would create the necessary pre-conditions, in our view of reconciliation in these areas and take down the collective subject and responsibility from one nation, because these are the crimes of individuals and sick minds, often attributed to a nation that we essentially disagree with. It must be made clear once what happened in these areas, especially in Srebrenica space, and I think it was a long time ago, 10 years ago, but probably because of the unpreparedness that has been felt in a certain way and after 10 years, it has not been done so far. It's done by many countries of the Council of Europe, it's done by the United States, it's trying to make countries out of the environment, and it's a little bit incomprehensible and unacceptable that this country, as far as it's concerned, does not bring one, one such resolution and does not express its political position. This is when this must be brought and better done as soon as possible, so I propose to the Parliamentary Assembly, or this House, to accept this resolution and finally determine according to all this terrible event, not by reducing any other similar event that has happened in these areas. That's why part of the name of that resolution and the one in Bosnia and Herzegovina, thinking about all the other victims that happened in this space, didn't happen again. That is why I insist that this resolution that I have brought into Parliament's procedure enter into the procedure, that this House be made known to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18502	Thank you. Mr. Milorad Živković. Let Mr. Momčilo Novaković prepare himself. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18503	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I expected the chairman to say that my request to introduce a new agenda per Article 105. The Rules of Procedure, which I mentioned at the Enlarged College, however, as you have received before you, is the proposal regarding only one item of the agenda, i.e. only one member to add extraordinary elections. I think 105. The Rules of Procedure, especially in item number one, are fully respected and I ask the chairman to include it as item six of the agenda. And as for the resolution, I haven't heard from the motion that these resolutions should be put on the agenda, and I also think that the works are much more important than the resolution, but since SNSD has proposed resolutions several times in this House, and each time these resolutions went into the commission phase, I suggest that Dom also accept our proposal that these two resolutions go first in the commission phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18504	Thank you. Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Let Mr. Jozo Križanović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18505	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, I would like to support the agendas in the proposal set out by the College, i.e. the College and the Enlargement College at the session some, a little over half an hour ago. In order for this proposal to be accepted, of course, I must comment on the proposals made so far. When it comes to the Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, I don't think it's the first law that's so urgent that today must be put on the agenda even though we found it here in chairs. So it can wait for the next session and then go by Article 105. I think we've worked so many times so far, I don't see why we shouldn't do it this time. What is probably difficult to comment on today, or what we are in a difficult position to comment on is the proposal of colleagues Jahić and colleagues Moranjkić on the resolutions on Srebrenica, or the resolution on genocide in Srebrenica and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Namely, I am closer to the variant or proposal by Mr Špirić to refer these resolutions to the commission. For what? Without intending to enter into the essence of the resolution, because I believe that when we discuss the resolutions themselves, we are talking about the agenda today, but without that intention it is very difficult to identify views in the US with views in Bosnia and Herzegovina on the previous war. So it's very hard to identify and I'm sure that, let's not say in much of what, but at least in something you see different. Unfortunately, some of these differences with regard to the United States are in this resolution. 8 I must be honest that I truly sympathise with all the victims in Srebrenica and, of course, with all the victims of this war, the unfortunate war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I also think that everyone at, at their level should help to once put an ad.act, under the supposed signs of course put an ad.act, because we will hardly ever be able to put these questions completely ad.acta, but I say debate about them at this point in time to get her out of the sphere of politics, to put herself in a sphere where we can help these people. So in all ways, if you want resolutions if we think we're going to help them. In order to get a real document that will meet one of the conditions of the proposings, or the proposing's intention, which is one reconciliation definitely reconciliation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, then it is necessary to put these texts on the commission, to have the job done before the eleventh, so if it can do the job before the eleventh and get a resolution from Parliament on these issues. So, I'm ready for me and the club to get involved seriously in such a single job so that we can successfully bring him to an end and so that everything that the motionors of the resolution wanted we actually do with these resolutions and achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18506	Thank you. Mr. Jozo Križanović. Let Mr. Tihomir Gligorić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18507	I thank Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, and I will begin with this proposal on Srebrenica, and immediately to say that I, of course, support the adoption of the Srebrenica resolution. However, while respecting this fact that we have two motions for a resolution, that it has not arrived, colleagues have not arrived to get acquainted with the texts of these resolutions, I am partly joining fellow Novaković's proposal to refer these texts to the relevant commission, provided that the House session is held before 11.7. So, before 9/11, we could adopt a resolution on Srebrenica. And secondly, I had another suggestion. Given that we have interrupted the previous session at the agenda point where we have discussed the Security Information in Bosnia and Herzegovina and a few other important points, I suggest that today, in the agenda, change the order and replace points 11 and 14 with points 5 and 6. I think it is very important that the Security Information is considered immediately at the beginning of this session because the topic is very important, and the other side is already inactive, we are considering it after half a year. 9 So these are two concrete proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18508	Thank you. Mr. Gligorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18509	I thank Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished guests, I join the predecessors who have advocated that we remain on the agenda which the College and the narrow composition and in the expanded composition have defined and that I do not waste time thinking that what Professor Špirić, Momčilo Novaković, Dr. Živković, Mr Jozo Križanović, when it comes to the resolution, we cannot dispute with lawmakers who have the right to do so and it is not even a questionable need to bring it to Parliament, it was necessary to pass it on to the commission stage, as we have done before with the goal of the resolution then being a joint act. Otherwise, if it is not accepted, then it is only one offer in one direction, and then it is not a joint work, and here I would just like to say briefly that in the Council of Ministers, maybe they should have also discussed this issue to come to us so that we could all involve the executive power and legislatively when it comes to it, but here we have a problem that we have. At the same time in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we also had dissonant tones, precisely because we are not in a delegation, because we did not solve this issue in the institutions of this country, but we have an individual case. I do not dispute that he is going in such a way, but it should also be known for the sake of the public that it was not adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, but that it was a declaration, a statement by 36 MPs, and it clearly states in a form of the Council of Europe that this is the position only of these people, and not as it was said that the Council of Europe adopted it, because it was not the point of the agenda, it did not adopt etc. When we talk about Congress of the United States, when we talk about any other country, I would really like my fellow Members, I ask that we within Bosnia and Herzegovina, without distinction to others, reach a consensus on this important issue from the past. It's the only way. Believe me, there is no way any state that will say and give its qualification to this or that state, with all the lobbying opportunities that are present in the world. But if we face all the harsh pasts on all sides and we find that kind of agreement in Bosnia and Herzegovina we won't need anyone else, because believe them, their help has distanced us from solving this issue from the past, because everyone had their own country that had their own interests, and then we all got hurt in the meantime. I know that exclusion is not an ally to anyone. In this case, in the sense that we have two resolutions, we have come into a situation, that they really don't get me wrong, because this is one difficult question and we have to face it and I, as a man, condemn it both the commanders and the perpetrators, etc., but we have to come to one position that we really try to solve this issue together, not by racing, one perhaps harsh word, here now with two proposals in front of this Parliament. That's exactly why we need to sit together and solve it 10 so that we don't go further together to join these discussions that went on, but in the sense that we're looking for a solution to go into the commission phase, and those who proposed the resolution had to take care of both the time factor and the 11th of July, when it was necessary to do all that, because in that case, and if you go all at once, I wrote it, you have to accept it, then the ultimatum, then there's no co-operation. And it's not good for those who suggest as much as anyone thinks what I'm saying might not be right. And I propose a new agenda item, which is the information of the chairman of the Council of Ministers on an agreement on the conclusion of the House of Representatives, which we left him with for 15 days to report on what he did within the deadline. Explanation. Short. sobzir he came here to Parliament and said I want to give you oral information, I don't need anything from this representative home. In the end, the skillful conduct of the session was done, the conclusion it had drawn, and how it was appropriate. Well, when he was fit for those 15 days because of the dignity of this House, it is clear that the deadline has expired that he should come and account for this House of Representatives what he did at the conclusion of this House. If we want the dignity of this House, the chairman must say he did, he did not, it is not disputed. But he has to come here because this Parliament chose him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18510	Thank you. Mr. Beriz Belkić answered the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18511	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I really hate to take up the time when the debate is on the agenda, but apparently it has become a practice and that it is somehow inevitable. So, apart from these unprincipledities that are being heard here, first we advocate the proposed agenda at the College level, and then we propose new agenda points, etc. It seems to me that the debate on these two resolutions is being conducted in one way, so to speak the superficial way, not understanding what this is about, or not respecting what it is about, what the content is and what the resolutions are about. So if we respect that, then we'll look at it a little differently, respecting course, I respect our practice and procedures, etc. And I'm expressing my skepticism in the likelihood that by the eleventh day, if a man knew that we would have Parliament again tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, so that we could carry out the procedure through committees, etc., I would absolutely support it. But I absolutely express my skepticism that we will have completed the procedure before the eleventh. So I am absolutely my own club, and our party club for BiH is absolutely about us saying today about the resolution although we would have had a number of objections to some things in these resolutions and from the point of view of text and from the point of view of correctness, so to speak of the content itself, but in any case we think it is necessary to determine these things before the eleventh. 11 I sincerely hope that indeed when it comes to Srebrenica that at least we have no dilemma whether it should be condemned or not, and what it was there. Here to inform you of our MP, Senija Kapetanović, is today in Prijedor where he was identified, where the remains of her husband, who was killed in Prijedor in the camp, have been identified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18512	I thank Mr. Belkić. Mr. Sead Avdić. After that, Mr. Elmir Jahić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18513	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the honourable presidency of the Council of Ministers, dear guests I also briefly. I think it is a very correct initiative from fellow Špirić that the parliamentary majority, i.e. the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, informs us of a conversation recently held and simply from the point of view of the Council of Ministers and I would say the adoption and acceptance of a conditionally stated technical mandate, the functioning of the Council of Ministers, the appointment of a session, etc. etc. So it would be good tomorrow at the joint session of the plenary session of the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives that indeed someone on behalf of the Presidency, perhaps the most newly elected chairman of the Presidency, informs us that this was happening at the meeting of the Presidency with the presidents of the political parties of the parliamentary majority and from the aspect, above all the functioning of the Council of Ministers. So that's under 1. Under 2nd, I call for last session of the House of Representatives and Minutes, the MPs' club here suggested that by this session parliamentary clubs try to agree on the unique text of the resolution on the condemnation of war crimes in Srebrenica and the genocide as the UN tribunal's verdicts say. In the light of the fact that this has not been done today, we have a situation that we have two resolutions and in this context difficult to vote on, or simply vote individually on these resolutions, taking into account all the conditions that are present in Bosnia and Herzegovina today, which means it would be a good idea to hold perhaps a proposal from colleagues of Križanović, if possible what counterpart Belkić says is that we have a thematic session before 11 July at which we would adopt a resolution on Srebrenica, a unique text on which the House of Representatives would gather. If this is not possible, and it is not possible objectively, it is a short time, I propose the following, and it is that by 12 o'clock today simply try to sit down presidents of parliamentary clubs, bring the text of the resolution together, using these two texts of resolution and two authors etc. And to suggest it to us. If not, then we are forced to vote on these resolutions. Thank you. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18514	Thank you. We've got more, Mr. Elmir Jahić still has it at the end. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18515	Mr. Chairman, I have a need to explain after some of the views of the honourable fellow MPs. In fact, there's been talk that here, that it's about some race that's going to propose a resolution and that it's not good I don't know this, it's not good that we're proposing what we did in one way or another. First of all, it should be said that the seriousness of the situation and the complexity of this problem is in fact saying that several MPs have shown their desire and intention that Parliament should be manifested on this issue. So I'd like you to watch it side by side. On the one hand. On the other hand, I would be overjoyed if the other MPs would therefore be members of that people whose name and crime this resolution was committed. Believe me, I wouldn't race at all and give this resolution. So we would have had in the fullest sense that word one step forward. I've been trying, so in all these five points in this resolution, not one moment, not one part of this resolution is politicized. I also appreciated this that this is Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it's not the same look from the United States. So I totally agree with that. Normally, therefore, we must respect, not as to whether the complete text of the resolution is, but simply the intention of the American Senate, Congress, so let's say a significant part of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to make this issue known. I'm really in all of these points, so without any politicization, I've tried some of the problems essentially to say everything that's been said so far. So also through the judicial institutions, and we are Bosnia and Herzegovina determined, this parliament, executive power, all political parties, entities, people, etc. Respect for the UN tribunal's decisions. The Hague tribunal has been defined, in several verdicts there has been a genocide against Bošnjak in Srebrenica. That's what I'm saying. We've also all committed ourselves to arresting war criminals. Here's what we put on. There was talk of helping people. I think we should basically apostrophe this segment to help people and that Srebrenica, whether it's Bošnjak or Srbin. So the people who live there. And in this context, I was also talking about eshumation, or the discovery of mass graves, to find out the truth about the missing, but to help people, that is, there is a complete economy, an economy destroyed, housing funds and one and another people. To figure out a way to help these people. So we have this obligation. I, therefore, don't consider this to end only on one piece of paper, on a resolution, but to come out of this operational acts on how to help these people out there, how to put the economy on its feet, how to hire people, how to restore their housing fund, etc. 13 So, very specific questions. I didn't want to make myself full of myself, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so it's not about the aspect, so the US view towards Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I think we should adopt this today. At the very least, here we can finally make the one with Mr. Moranjkić to create some unique text of the resolution, but I think it would be inconclusive and immaterial to adopt this after 11 July when the 10th anniversary is of genocide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18516	Thank you. Mr. Novaković answered the line, yes. Well, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18517	Well, I just want to get one inaccuracies. I think that, it seems special to me that we all pay attention when we talk about this issue so we don't say something that wouldn't be, let's say it correctly at least. It seems absolutely incorrect to me, and I'm afraid that if Mr. Jahić further explains that he will create a growing front on what we are on, what we have proposed both Mr. Špirić and I and some other colleagues to do so on the commission. Namely, the statement that those who did it on behalf of the Serbian people absolutely does not stand. No Niko has done anything on my behalf, and I am a representative of the Serb people, so neither in Srebrenica nor in any part where any war crime was committed, or any genocide. And because of that, I was careful not to enter the text of the resolution and it is controversial in Mr. Jahić's resolution when he says – punishing responsible institutions and individuals. So that's what defines me in his resolution to suggest he go to the commission. I ask you indeed that when we talk about it and the promoters etc. that you and we, too, are careful, so I'm talking about the proposings and the MPs who discussed it, we're watching some of the words that we're not going to achieve what we're trying to achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18518	Thank you. Mr. Špirić, the replica, so you'll get your word, Mr. Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18519	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, MPs and respected ministers, at first I asked and said this was a difficult topic. If God were lucky so there's a whole other mood here, I think that if we came to a unique attitude there could be a series of meetings of people convincing each other, arguments to come to a unique document. So I invite you on behalf of Srebreničan and Srebrenica to say today a word in order to reach a unique attitude. First time I've talked about this in public. All the victims in this country are my victims. Silver victims are also part of the victims I regret, as I regret those killed in Park, Kazani, Uzdol, etc. Don't let us fall into a trap, after what happened to the victims in that way 14 we share and we look for everyone, every nation's resolution on the victims of their people. So please. Who says 15 days can't be done, if that's the goal of all sitting around for 15 days and 15 nights and getting to the document. What the State MPs do if they don't want to talk about it. Who says the resolution will be late for the silver ones? Will it be if we adopt her today that they live better in this city that they are in today? Who wants to make a show of Srebrenica in front of silver eyes? I'm not up for it. And that's why I think a crime when a political dimension is added, that's not good. Who wants to make a show of Srebrenica in front of silver eyes? I'm not up for it. And that's why I think a crime when a political dimension is added, that's not good. And I'm ready to talk about everything. I see Beriz raises his hand, I'm not saying this, it doesn't matter, I'm not saying this to cause controversy, I'm asking that we get to the document if possible. Nothing to me, you see, I'm up for it, if the MPs want us to vote individually today on resolutions. I'll vote. Iiznjetati state my position and publicly defend it. And ask... ladies and gentlemen of the resolution what kind of message it is if we don't adopt the resolution today. I want us all to think about it. I know Beriz is gonna be all over it when I say the show. I apologize maybe for that word if it's heavy, because I didn't use it in that sense to be a replica, but I just want to say it. Okay, thank you, Beriza. He knows what you were thinking of replicating. No, I'm asking you, so I'm asking all of you who have been saying that we will plead individually, so we know what relations are like here. We're not gonna do a good job that, I guess, everybody cares. And I don't think 11 is a little time for responsible people. And if the presidents of the clubs sit here and the authorities and the opposition sit for 11 days to come up with a text that will offer to the competent commission. So, if there's a good will, anything can be done. Don't just bid today with two resolutions and this turns out to be a bid with something that no one in their right mind should bid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18520	Okay. Mr. Elmir Jahić at the end, so let's conclude. Please. Well, you've already made a suggestion. You're right. You'll get your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18521	I really have no intention of polimising, and I don't like to go into this kind of conflict, but here's the need, in the end here's the thing, I'm trying to do it in a very measured way, and here's an additional explanation. I said that all these views I put in the resolution were already confirmed, so first of all, by the court cases, so the Hague tribunal. And I'm a man who's really prone to bargaining and compromise, but we need to know one thing -- there's no compromise about the truth. There's no bargaining about the truth. We can't negotiate whether the sun is rising east and going west. So when we know. So we have a fact that about 8,000 people have been killed, this is about institutions. Were these people killed by an earthquake, was the earthquake so that 8,000 people died, some flood? No, they were exactly killed by soldiers, so the army of 15 MUPs are institutions. The members of that army, that mup of a state, etc. The works of one have done that which they have done. So we can't say it didn't happen. So I wouldn't be entering this segment, but you know very well that the commander of an army said that he was handing this city over to a nation, etc., but he didn't fence himself from that statement. No Niko has been fenced to this day by that statement so that Srebrenica surrenders to that people and later rebelled against them, I don't know anything further, etc. So I really don't want this and not a single segment of this resolution to be politicized, but it's based on facts that have long since been confirmed. First of all, in The Hague, the second part is about to help these people. And I think it's a more important segment -- how to help these people, how to restore the economy, how to make them houses, how to hire them, etc. etc.? Here.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18522	Okay. Please, I think it's time to bring the debate to an end and we have more. Who are you? And who are you?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18523	On behalf of the Council of Ministers, it proposes to supplement the agenda. Deputy Foreign Trade and Customs Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18524	Here you go. There you go, there you go!
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18525	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, I suggest that item 6 be removed from the agenda. Proposal for a tobacco law for the reason that the opinion of the competent ministry of the Council has not been considered. So I suggest that point six be removed from the agenda of today's session. – Proposal for a tobacco law for the reason that the proposal of the competent ministry
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18526	All right. We understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18527	for reasons why the proposal from the competent ministry of the Council of Ministers has not been considered until today. 16 The bill is included in tomorrow's agenda for tomorrow's Council of Ministers meeting, so I think it would be a good idea not to discuss this law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18528	I thank the Deputy Minister and we apologize for not recognising him, but I didn't really get a chance, I mean, so I had to ask who you were. I apologize again. This may have been a little inappropriate on my part, but you have, of course, the right to intervene on the agenda and you just did it right now. We've got two other registered debaters. This short, very short Mr. Gligorić and Mr. Križanović, so let's bring the end of it, let's go to a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18529	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would suggest that the motions for a resolution that, after this debate that we had on the agenda, it would be good for them to follow these suggestions and that they, together with the commission that we set out, whether it is the Constitutional and ustavno-pravni Committee or the Human Rights Commission, try to resolve this issue by this deadline. I think it's real real. Unless the goal of a resolution is to accept only and exclusively in this text, or someone's goal is to make this, that the resolution is not accepted, so someone's goal is to fall into Parliament's resolution that I consider it a bad solution and if someone thinks it's a political goal, they'd better give up because they're going to do more harm to themselves than to those they thought of in that case. So it would be correct, although they are honest with these suggestions, I only think this is a real solution. Either the system accepts or leave.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18530	And in the end, Mr. Jozo Križanović and we will conclude the debate. Here, you did ask for a word to Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18531	Well, it wasn't necessary. I thought
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18532	If it wasn't necessary, thank you. Let's move on. We're closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18533	But to cut this short.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18534	Here you go. Come on. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18535	In line with what we suggested at the outset, I think there's a general mood. We're all for making a resolution, only when. Today is obviously difficult for practical reasons, and therefore it would be good if the College could promise that the House session would be held until 11.7, I don't think there would be any problem and there would be no reason for further discussion about the bar when it comes to Srebrenica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18536	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk? Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18537	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must express my satisfaction that he is the Ministry
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18538	Go ahead, go ahead. I didn't say anything to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18539	I thank you again. So I want to express my satisfaction that the Foreign Trade Ministry responded after five months to our proposal for a tobacco law. Five months ago, we sent this bill, and to this day, no one found it appropriate from the Council of Ministers to have any kind of communication with them on this subject. Not even with the commission that's been considering it. Since today's first reading, first reading, there's no reason for them to meet tomorrow and if they have the capacity to talk about this to get involved in this. And that is why I think that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, removing an optional point can be sought by the Council of Ministers, and the Deputy Minister, on behalf of the Ministry, cannot ask for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18540	I thank Mr. Lagumdžija. I'd ask you respected colleagues if we'd already been in the middle of a debate on the agenda. Here's the end of the story. Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister Mr. Doko. Here you go. Mrs. Jelina Đurković. Let him prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18541	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, I will give another explanation. I think that was pretty clear, too. 18 The Council of Ministers could therefore not establish the proposal because it had no agenda at its session. The Ministry has prepared the material. The fact is that there are responsibilities on both the Ministry and the Council of Ministers' side of the opinion, but there is something called a procedure that the ministry must respect if it wants this draft law to come before the House of Representatives, and that is that, when we are considering the tobacco law, given the very modest capacities in the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, because I will remind you, we have formed a sector for agriculture and until now, or until a month and a half, we have not had any experts related to this issue. Of course, we respected the procedure, we addressed the entity ministries, we got their opinions. That took quite a while. The opinions are such as to point out, I will now tell you what you do not have in front of you, by the Ministry of Agriculture of Republika Srpska is a disputed and constitutional basis and the need to pass laws and even some kind of proposal in terms of entity laws in this matter and that there is no need to adopt therefore, they can agree, if they do not agree and that there is an end to the process. The Federal Ministry of Agriculture has made so many objections to this law that simply such a law could not go in such a text in further procedure. From this, the Ministry proposed a solution that the Council of Ministers, hopefully here tomorrow at this session will adopt and then Parliament will have the material as it should have, not through the Ministry of course, because we couldn't do it, if we could have delivered it early, because we had done that text. So we continue to propose that, as a resolution ministry, not as some conclusion by the Council of Ministers, this item of the agenda should be removed and considered once you have received the opinion of the Ministry through the Council of Ministers. Here's another one.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18542	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, let me explain the matter. It is a mandatory item of the agenda that has gone through all the procedure through the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina and according to the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. the suggestions and the Secretary of the House here and what we have as a practice we are now discussing on the agenda, it is not possible to remove this item of the agenda, the mandatory agenda point from the agenda. But, but, please, you won't tell me whether or not we can debate, Mr. Minister, but we will decide and ask you nicely not to use such a vocabulary in the future in relation to Parliament and let me finish, quite well-meaningly, quite well-meaningly, and that is that when we enter into the debate then we can hear the Council of Ministers' suggestions and postpone the statement, wait for the Council of Ministers' decision, wait for the Council of Ministers' proposal, but I have to respect this Rules of Procedure. And please nice that's how it is. Mrs. Jelina Đurković. Here you go. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18543	Well, me too. Ladies and gentlemen, what I want to say about the debate on proposals for the agenda, and these two resolutions concern Mr Gligorić and Mr Špirić's proposals on the agenda point, calling on the Council of Ministers to submit information on what he has done in these 15 days. As for the resolution on Srebrenica, no man in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and no Srbin in Bosnia and Herzegovina should be allowed to stand behind the crime in Srebrenica, because the crime has no brotherhood and has no right to brotherhood. Therefore, Republika Srpska's institutions also pleaded and condemned the crime, and simply after the Srebrenica Commission's report, it is quite clear. However, in order to be patiently, patiently and delicately speaking about the crime that took place and the resolution about the sophistication, I think it is really necessary to bring these two resolutions together in some way, not to coordinate, but to find some solution to be one. There's no point in voting on one or the other. So for the sake of respect of the victims, I think it is necessary to send these two resolutions to the commission, not to delay our statement, on the contrary, in order to put everyone behind this resolution on Srebrenica behind us. So, I suggest that it go to the commission, both resolutions to go to the commission, but that the session of Parliament should take place before 11 July. So here I join the earlier proposals, and second, look at what's happening to us today. Shall we discuss the law, whether the Council of Ministers discussed the law? So the Council of Ministers is not working and I am also joining the initiative to discuss today, to call the chairman of the Council of Ministers and to say what has been done so far. If it works, or if it doesn't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18544	Thank you. Do any of your colleagues want to talk about the agenda yet? I'm closing the debate on the agenda. We're moving on to a plea. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have recorded here what I am as chairman, and then a colleague of seven different initiatives when it comes to intervention, or possible intervention on today's agenda. We'll take the order. First. The Srebrenica Resolution. We received two resolutions. One is Mr. Moranjkić, who arrived yesterday, and one is Mr. Jahić, who arrived today. According to our Rules of Procedure, the resolution will be placed on the agenda of the session, according to Article 121(2), unless the House decides that the resolution is previously discussed at the meeting of the committee responsible. 20 Acting in accordance with the procedure with the Rules of Procedure of this House, I will, in relation to the gentleman, at the resolution of Mr Moranjkić, and then in relation to Mr Jahić's resolution, because every MP has the right to submit a resolution, put this on vote and procedure. Yes, we've closed the debate. We'll proceed with the plea. No more interventions for any Mr. Križanović. Please. So I'll explain it to whoever it's not clear to. Please, nice. Any MP can bear your attention, please. You've been discussing, I've been listening to you for hours, listen to me. Any MP may submit a motion for a resolution. The motion for a resolution will be discussed at the House session, unless the House decides that it is necessary to consider it first, Article 121(2). And this is a practice that we have repeated several times, or repeated here in Parliament, applied. My question will therefore apply. First we vote on Mr. Moranjkić's resolution, by order, and then Mr. Jahić. Please, so the question is, please, no further discussion. So the question is, are we now pleading whether Mr. Moranjkić's resolution goes to the committee or not? If Parliament declares itself to go to the committee then there is no debate today at the House, if it makes a statement, if it pleads not to go to the commission, then today's debate is on the agenda and we in the College have considered this possibility and then it would be, someone has asked the question by the league, so things are law and these reports. He can't intervene. He can't! I've closed the debate. I've closed the debate. Please, Mr. Avdić, I've concluded the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18545	...no, I'm not just asking that the proposals of those who eliminate the next proposals in terms that go towards the integration of the proposal be put on the agenda first, and only then individual resolutions. That's how we agreed here at the House of Representatives. That makes sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18546	Sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18547	So the proposals that are contrary to your proposal that you are not otherwise, but simply which integrates more proposals and enables a solution to the situation. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18548	Mr. Sead Avdić
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18549	If we exhaust that, then we'll go according to individual resolutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18550	Sit down, sir, please, take your seat. Thank you very much, even though you discussed it without my permission. Please, allow me to respect the Rules of Procedure of this House. You've had different views on how to consider the Srebrenica resolution. And we have a Rules of Procedure, or a resolution on Srebrenica, and we have a Rules of Procedure that regulates that problem. So, we're moving on to a plea. So, Dom needs to make a statement whether the resolutions go to the committee, or not to go. If Dom decides the resolutions go to the committee, then there's no debate today. If the House decides that committees, that resolutions do not go to the committee, then today's debate here in Parliament is within the agenda. Prepare to vote. We're voting on Mr. Moranjkić's resolution. We're voting on whether the House is for Mr. Moranjkić's resolution to go to the committee? Please. After the vote on Mr. Jahić's resolution. Well, he's going to each other, all of it. Every MP has the right to submit to Jozo, his mother's age. Please, nice. Please, nice. Prepare yourself, we vote on who is in order for Mr. Moranjkić's resolution to be addressed to the House before the debate is addressed to the committee in charge. Who is for it, who is against it, and who is abstention? Of course. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So 17 for this proposal, 20 is against it. The proposal did not receive the necessary majority and Mr Muhamed Moranjkić's resolution will be the 10th item of the agenda of this session. _______(?) [[speaks from place, doesn't understand]] He doesn't have to. The proposal didn't get the general majority. 22 Prepare to vote on the same issue for Mr. Jahić's resolution. Vote now. Vote now. - 15 for 20 against. Neither did this proposal, therefore, nor did this get the necessary majority and Mr Jahić's resolution is the 11th item of the agenda of today's session. We're moving on to a further statement. It was my proposal, therefore, to pay a little attention today as the first item of the agenda, to select a committee to comply with the Law on Railways, and to put a report on both homes today, after the Law on Railways has ended today in the House of Peoples, and the Commission ends it, and that we have adopted the Law on Railways in both our homes. Prepare to vote on this proposal. Vote now. - 19 for, 18 against, 1, there's no majority of the entity. Republika Srpska. Are your colleagues in agreement? They don't agree, do they? We're going to a counter-vote. Only those who are against Republika Srpska are voting because there is no majority there. So, get ready, those who are against Republika Srpska to vote. Vote now. - 10 against Republika Srpska. That's more than 2/3, and I realize my proposal didn't get a parliamentary majority and that won't be the point of the agenda. We're crossing, so it's third. The third and sixth are identical. They proposed Mr Špirić and proposed Mr Gligorić. So is it the same or different? Please, nice. So we vote, so Mr Nikola Špirić and Mr Tihomir Gligorić's proposal that the Council of Ministers present today's session provide information on the state of the Council of Ministers. And this is proposed as the first item of the agenda and the realization of the conclusions from last session of the House. Prepare to vote. Yes, the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Prepare for the vote, for the chairman of the Council of Ministers to submit information on the state of the Council of Ministers, given the conclusion from last session of the House of Representatives and to be the first point of view, I think. Please. Please. I don't know. Ask Nikola. That's why I'm voting against, because it's not prepared, I think. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 28 for, enough entity majority, 4 against, 6 abstentions. This is the first item of the agenda, please pay attention just a little bit. This is the first item of the agenda. 23 A little attention. Let's move on. Mr. Milorad Živković has suggested, please note, Mr. Milorad Živković has suggested that the agenda should include the item on the agenda – the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 105, the examination of the procedure, and then the law. Thus, MP Milorad Živković's request for an emergency procedure under Rule 105 of our Rules of Procedure to discuss the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Prepare to vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 8 for, please colleagues, watch out, I can allow, I can allow you to really talk about how you talk and I run a session the way I think I'm leading and you're going my own way and I'm going my own way. And we can let that happen. No problem at all. But I think it's more polite, if we listen to each other and I listen to you, you can choose any variant, but I think we'd better do this, watch each other when we talk and listen to each other. I beg you, I appeal to you. So I figure this is how this eight-vote proposal for, 25 against and 6 abstentions didn't get a majority and there won't be a agenda for today's session, but it's going to be the mandatory point of the next session of this house. Let's move on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18552	It's no good to the Rules of Procedure, that kind of thing to wave to the Rules of Procedure. But I would ask you, Mr. Chairman, that your secretary who serves you here, that after each vote they pay attention if one of the MPs raises his hand and gives him a list from this vote
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18553	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18554	I'd ask in the future only when someone raises their hand, nothing, they're just looking, here's the same man who raised his hands. So listing. That's interesting who's against the possibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18555	Okay. Thank you very much. You're done. 24 Please be nice. Here you have heard in the Secretariat, of course you're doing your job. When you see it then you do it, when you don't see it, you don't owe it. I'm obliged to watch. Thank you very much. Let's move on. Take it easy, it's moving on. We have, therefore, a replacement of the order of points proposed by Mr. Križanović. You just want Mr. Križanović, I ask you to stand up to specify what the replacement of those dots refers to. You don't have to explain, just make it clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18556	I suggested replacing points 11 and 14 with points 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18557	Okay. Thank you very much. Prepare to vote. We had this question this morning at the College. Although something was a little bit wider. We didn't accept it, but here's the MP's right to suggest it. Prepare to vote. I invite you to prepare. Vote now. - 18 for, 13 against, 6 abstentions, enough entity majority. I'm asking the departments to take care of it. Paragraphs 11 and 14 have been replaced by points 5 and 6. So this is going to be 11, this is going to be 14, so this is going to be, of course, this is going to be 5, this is going to be 6. Please, just move on. I therefore conclude that the proposal for a tobacco law in the first reading is a mandatory item of the agenda and that we cannot vote according to the Rules of Procedure to remove it from the agenda, but we can, of course, respect the Council of Ministers' suggestions, those who consider it necessary to follow these suggestions and, of course, apply ourselves accordingly. Therefore, I would like to conclude, after the vote, that the 10th item of the agenda, that we have adopted the agenda that we have in front of us with the next amendments - - the 10th item of the Agenda Resolution on Srebrenica, Mr Moranjkić; - the 11th item of the Agenda Resolution on Srebrenica, Mr Elmir Jahić; 25 - then, the first item of the Council's agenda, the Council of Ministers' Presidency on the State of the Council of Ministers, taking into account the conclusion from last session of the House of Representatives; - then we adopted the replacement point 11 and the 5th point to rotate those two points, point 11 to be point 5, point 5 to point 11 and - we did the rotation of Point 6 and point 14 and so that point 14 should be the point 6 point 14. That's what we managed to do on the agenda today, and I declare this agenda. Please, I'm giving you a 10-minute break to get this agenda taken care of and then read it to you. Thank you very much. Ten minutes off. For the agenda of today's sessions the way you've gotten on the benches now, so first one. Information from the Council of Ministers Chairman on the State of the Council of Ministers, given the conclusion of the House of Representatives from last session, 2. Record of the 58th Session of the House of Representatives, 3. Confirming the appointment of Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 4. Parliament Questions and Answers, 5. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina, following an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. [[PAUZA]] Rules of Procedure, 6. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's state of security in 2004, 7. SDP MPs' initiative to establish the Committee/Commission for the adoption of the text of the Bosnia and Herzegovina State Anthem, 8. Proposal for a tobacco law (first reading) – MPs Zlatko Lagumdžija, Jozo Križanović and Selim Bešlagić, 9. Proposal for a law on the holidays of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the report of the Constitutional-Legal Commission – Proposers of MPs Zlatko Lagumdžija, Jozo Križanović and Selim Bešlagić, 10. Proposal for a resolution on genocide in Srebrenica and Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer of MP Muhamed Moranjkić), 11. Proposal for a resolution on Srebrenica (proposer Elmir Jahić), 12. Report by the Joint Commission of both homes on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Competition Act, 13. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 14. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's external debt situation in 2004, 26 15. Proposal for a conclusion of the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum on the results of resolving the performance of the Association of Decertified Officers of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Association of Decertified Officers of Republika Srpska, 16. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach an agreement on the request of Member Momčilo Novaković to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act on the control and control of the crossing of the state border by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 17. Commission Report from the College on Efforts to reach an agreement on the proposal for the conclusions of MP Petar Kunić, proposed in the debate on the information of the Council of Ministers of State in the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 18. Appointment of members of the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 19th Appointment of a member of the Administrative Commission of the House of Representatives (instead of Nikola Špirić) and 20. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the return of refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, (b) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Treaty of Donation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the United States for the Programme for the Financing of Reconstruction – Business Development Programme, (e) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Russian Federation on the establishment of an Intergovernmental Bosnian-Russian Commission for Trade and Economic Cooperation and e) of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Russian Federation on Trade and Economic Co-operation. This is the agenda. Moving to the first point, that's Ad.1. Information from the chairman of the Council of Ministers on the state of the Council of Ministers, given the conclusion of the House of Representatives from last session of the House of Representatives, I call on the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić to take the floor and submit the information. On this agenda point, I urge the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić, to take his word and submit information on the state of the Council of Ministers, given the conclusion of the House of Representatives from the beginning of the session. Here you go. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18558	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I do not suppose I should submit any information on the state of the Council of Ministers, is this a much broader discussion than information related to the conclusion that this home has brought at the last session and that clearly instructed me to discuss with all the parties that have MPs in this House how to overcome the current situation. I've accepted that conclusion and worked on its realization and I have to admit that I'm still working on it. As a product of certain activities today, after this item of the agenda, you also have the agenda point to confirm the appointment of Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, because I have already made Mr Ril's appointment as Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs at the proposal of one of the parliamentary majority parties. The current position is next. The presidency held a debate, the presidency called on parliamentary majority party presidents and were already two meetings. Last one was Monday. On next Monday, these talks continue. The conclusion of the parliamentary majority party that I have asked is that we agree that the Council of Ministers has to work, that the Council of Ministers must work to hold meetings and we tomorrow morning at 9 a.m. before the plenary session of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina have an scheduled regular session with regular activities. What has happened since the last session to date and what has changed the order of things is the legal opinion given by the OHR that the minister to whom the resignation has been accepted should perform his duty in the technical mandate until the second is appointed. Therefore, we will also have ministers who accept the resignation tomorrow at the Council of Ministers' meeting and will continue to work normally. I expect that Monday, as agreed by Doboj and Sarajevo on Monday, parliamentary majority presidents will try to agree on how and how this situation should be overcome and it is clearly said in a statement that the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers is also being considered. I think these are now activities that are now going to the spirit of the conclusions of the House of Representatives. At this point, the most important thing for us is for the Council of Ministers to meet, to make decisions, to propose legal regulations, and we are now in such an environment and I expect that the presidents of parliamentary majority parties and the Presidency will offer a final solution to this situation very quickly. I think that this would be enough in terms of information, and if there are any questions I'm willing to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18559	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I'm opening a debate. Here you go, Mr. Gligorić. Here you go. Mrs. Đurković after that. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18560	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, I have asked for a conclusion with Mr. Špirić, and it has been concluded that today this will be a point of the agenda and thank you for giving this oral information on the realization of the House of Representatives' conclusion from last session when you were scheduled to discuss with the position and opposition on the crisis in the Council of Ministers within 15 days. I expected that this information would be more precise, more detailed, in line with the crisis that objectively shakes Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to the failure of the executive authority. At the same time, I believe that there was a major crisis, given that the Council of Ministers did not sit, that it suffered from state administrations, agencies, directorates, which were objectively needed assistance in each respect and financially, or the relevant decisions they proposed, while counting on the Council of Ministers in the regular procedure to come to a more successful financial business and even some projects you did not hold a meeting of the Council of Ministers in the meantime. That's what you were supposed to talk about. At the same time, the irresponsible relationship we have had with the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament in general is also evident and should have found the same appropriate words about this mutual relationship that obliges the executive authority to account for the highest legislative authorities. At the same time, the relations with the Presidency, since the Presidency is an organ that gives you confidence and gives you, practically appoints you, and we confirm, should have also said in that sense what the Presidency's thinking is so that we have a complete picture. And my question, since I asked you in the Council of Europe, so you said here's the opposition from Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, so you said that you should listen to the opposition and every authority that listens to the opposition is good authority and I agree with you. And do you now have all these demands that the opposition and messages have been sending to you personally lately, namely that you promised to the citizens of reform, you promised with the people of one of the constituent people of the Serbian people that you proposed, there you even answered, I choose them and remove them, it's as little as Luj XIV state, it's me, and it's not very diplomatic, but good my God. Then you proposed these people as experts who were proven, in your words for reform, then without their knowledge, you violated the Constitution and the Council of Ministers Act without their knowledge. Today we see all that farce and all that trouble. It's being replaced like some kind of production tape, and there are problems that arise from that decision of yours. But you bear responsibility as chairman because you have created a crisis, because you are the generator of the crisis, because in the meantime it was not the way you asked for it, but a compromise was found, and yet all this is the result of the SIP staff solution, which has led to the crisis of the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The opposition points to that. It speaks of the purpose and purpose of yourself, of not taking care of economic reforms, of being simply the generator of the crisis. Do you think that the solution is true and that you resign and continue to work in the technical mandate, not to show yourself as a man who is only determined by reforms, that everything should practically revolve around you and your visions? And I don't think that vision can take us far beyond conflict, conflict, etc. Is it fair for you to answer honestly in front of this House what your intentions really are, do you have any responsibility for all this has happened in the meantime? A stressful situation, one after another keeps showing up to citizens and institutions in these countries? Do you at least wear one pint of responsibility as you said in your own time if reforms come into question? You'll resign, then resign, and at the same time you say that resignation wasn't a serious matter. When in this, or in these circumstances that we have a new, honest answer to what you really think and where is this vision of yours, in which direction should we go? We've really come up with one specific, one situation, one farce, that executive government means it's working on an infusion. It can't work in objective capacity. We cannot expect, working in such capacity, neither social, economic, nor other reforms. You need to talk to us tomorrow in the social program if you've made it. You don't have a social program. The citizens will simply come before the final act because of the VAT you voted on. Is there anything in this country other than paper reforms in which citizens see nothing? Do you think there's anything concrete you can do, even if this particular thing is that citizens who are on the biohazard get 200 marks until such power opens up some new jobs for them so you can take them off the bureau, but on that desk like in Germany, the social state has receipts? Do you even think about the social economic situation in this country, because here's how long it's been, we're just witnesses to crisis situations and we see that this is all about human resources? Do you bear, I conclude with this, really you are responsible that you should withdraw a concrete act and do you see the way out that another man might be better able to continue reforms? If you think you've done something and I can give you a confession, thank you, but at the same time you must always look for a new solution. If you've run a 400-metre stock, and you can't run to 1,000, you shouldn't compete, especially at 4000 feet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18561	Okay. Thank you. Time's exactly up. Mrs. Jelina Đurković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18562	From last session of Parliament to this session, actually, the story remained the same. The chairman produced a crisis in the Council of Ministers, and then he made a series of illegal decisions that came up with each other, so it turned out that Mr. Chairman was actually not able to handle the place he was sitting at all. Except that he's produced a crisis, and then not 30 can even manage it, but it looks like he's got soufflés on the side, and these soufflés are very different at different times and some of the situations are being advised. As far as the Party of Democratic Progress is concerned, we are still behind the view that Mr. Chairman's decisions are illegal when it comes to the so-called. adoption of Mr Ivanić's resignation. It's nothing, we've already talked about it and, of course, a series of decisions he's made afterwards. It seems that this process of crisis is actually something more serious in the introduction that I would not speak of at this point, but for several reasons, so that I would not spread the story, I am speaking to the Mr. Chairman and I am saying that I expect his resignation as a moral act in order to simply stop embarrassing and embarrassing Bosnia and Herzegovina in front of the world that our Prime Minister is making illegal decisions that we should be left alone, that he doesn't know what he's doing. So, one thing is, it would be most appropriate for Mr. Chairman to resign, and this parliament to ask the Presidency, if therefore the gentleman himself did not resign, to resign, to resign, to be resolved by the Presidency and to choose a more serious, thorough expert in running the business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18563	Thank you. I don't have any more applications for discussion. Now, here come my colleagues. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18564	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, I must admit that I really expected that, I thought it was the order of the charter to hear the first leaders of the ruling coalition and the parliamentary majority whose presidents participated in the agreement a few days ago when the public was informed of what the prime minister has now told us in his own words. The truth in similar words has already told the media so that no new information has been given to us. I was a little confused by what I heard from my colleague Đurković now that I am the prime minister, the truth I understood the other party leaders after their hanging out both in Doboj and in Sarajevo. I figured two things out. First, that practically the resignation of the foreign minister was accepted and that he was acting in a technical mandate until he was appointed new. What I'm hearing from my colleague Đurković is a little different. So I am quite pleased, conditionally told by this argument that the resignation was accepted and that they agreed that this was so, including Mr Ivanić, as party president, and not as foreign minister who was present there. I even saw it on TV. I recognized from that shirt that the picture was from the same meeting. So I realized that now the foreign minister is in the technical mandate and when you execute the appointment of the deputy minister that there will be no problem even when a man goes on vacation, that we have a deputy minister who replaces him in accordance with the law and that is totally acceptable to me. 31 I have also understood the chairman here, and I welcome it that by Monday, if I understand correctly the next one is expected to complete the Council of Ministers, which means that the chairman will come out with new appointments that will come here for confirmation. So Parliament should not resolve Ivanic, but Parliament will appoint a new foreign minister to participate in an adequate number of Republika Srpska parties to appoint a new foreign minister, a minister of communication, and, if I understand correctly, Mr Doko is also expecting the appointment of a new one. At least that's how I got it from the press. Now, if that's the case, I thank the Prime Minister for telling us today. Why? Because tomorrow's session of Parliament, the chairman, would like us to dedicate what the agenda points are, not to talk about this again. Because I consider tomorrow's session of Parliament a session of both homes much, much more important than whether Mladen came or came. So, I would ask when I'm already talking, that for tomorrow's agenda session, tomorrow's session of the agenda, Mr. Chairman, we get the relevant materials that we haven't received, which are more serious things, which is - Information on the effects of applying the introduced tariff quotas, ageing trade and default measures for their reduction, Information on the Free Trade Agreement with the Republic of Croatia and the Draft of Social Programmes for easing the consequences, because we get nothing, and tomorrow we have such a large agenda. I am well-intentioned to you today, not to be seen so often, that you are not telling us not to present the table reports, because it is not our agenda point, but rather to give us the report on the implementation of the action plan that we have received. Now let me get back to this today. It's the agenda. I don't want my GDPs sending us representatives, but you go out and give us some information about this. I think, Mr. Chairman, that today is a good time to absorb this, but it would be good to see the representatives of the other parties here ruling is this, whether they have any objections to what you've put out. Because if Mrs. Đurković had any objections, then that's no problem, you have most of them without her. So, if so, I propose that the Parliamentary Assembly conclude today, the House of Representatives, the proposal of the conclusion, we have it even in writing – that by 15 July at the latest, so you don't have to until Monday, which says by Monday to carry out the appointment and then to consult a little bit and then to say by 15.7 at the latest, so in two weeks, come out with an emergency reform plan in a three-month period. This council of ministers is being appointed new to some parliamentary majority, so that we are not the only fortunate to have a new minister or to remain old, but to tell us to gather together, I urge you to gather around the emergency reform plan in three months and ask Parliament for the green light to give you approval for these urgent reforms. So the proposal to come up with an emergency reform plan in a three-month period and a new Council of Ministers meeting at the latest by 157. I have specified this new 32 chairing the reconstruction of the existing appointment of M.V. Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Communications and Foreign Trade, if I understand correctly, or the formation of a new one so that the Parliamentary Assembly can give you support. So let's get out of this in a constructive way. Really with Mladen or without you, with one or the other or with experts, you know, you might find an ingenious idea to form an expert government, which would be a really big change, if after three years we had experts in the government, but then it's a special topic that we could discuss by 15.7 when you call this session. I'm going to give this proposal a conclusion so that Mr. Chairman can show himself about him. And in the end, this is what I end up with. Mr. Prime Minister, I think you need with your ruling coalition to see and with your supporters, yours, yours, and yours, who are all in the coalition, uh, they don't need to make you leave. You get yourself a nice change and let them either give you support, or don't give it to you, but in these 15 days, we really need to get this off the agenda. Don't leave angry. Go because you have support, or stay because you have support. So, I invite you that when we have already responded emotionally in the last 20 days, both you and Mladen, don't do it anymore. Save us your emotions. Let's go in a little rationally, this is very serious, especially in front of tomorrow's session that I urge you to approach at tomorrow's session much, much more serious than today's owl, because this is a thing compared to what's tomorrow's theme.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18565	Thank you. Mr. Terzić, chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18566	So I'm not going out to rephrase, and especially not to challenge a new discussion of the esteemed representative of Lagumdžija, but just to explain, because he's talking about how he understood it. So to clarify that I absolutely did not say that the parties of the parliamentary majority with the proposals of the new ministers would come out on Monday, etc. The presidents and presidents of parliamentary majority parties and the presidency sit on Monday to try to find a solution to the situation and what, as the statement clearly implies, the possibility of a reconstruction of the Council of Ministers. So all the options are open, and if that happens on Monday and if we're going to have any new names on Monday, it's not up to me or I can promise this parliament that it will happen on Monday. It is, however, the presidents of parliamentary majority parties and I am not the president of any party, especially the parliamentary majority party, to my great joy.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18567	Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, this is kind of a reply to the replica. One minute, please. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18568	This isn't a reply to the replica at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18569	You have a minute. I don't know what it is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18570	All right, I think. Mr. Prime Minister and I thank God, and I am lucky that I am not the president of the parliamentary majority party and here we are in the same position. You're unfortunately more brutally severe than I am. I just, for the reason I heard you could do it by Monday, because if you don't put it back together by Monday, then you'll, not well you, but we'll all go in at some point where we have to distract it. Last time he chaired the maestro, he made a conclusion for you. I'm really congratulating him. He's a master of procedure, especially when he's not threatening anyone, uh, which adopted a conclusion that absolutely doesn't commit you to anything. You can drive us like this until the end of your term, based on that conclusion from the last time. That's why I want to get the conclusion today that in 15 days, you say, "I'm a yal." Something to say. Get out of this. That you and Mladen hug, kiss and move on, or that you replace him, or that he replaces you, or that we get new people, but therefore today Parliament commits you all together to come here after, if you said that in 5 days you might end it, whatever you agreed between yourselves Parliament commits you all together to come out in 15 days with some solution that will guarantee what you will present to us tomorrow. There's someone who can make it happen.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18571	Thank you very much, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18572	I thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18573	Only I'm not threatening anyone, so you know well. You said I was a master of procedure, especially when I didn't threaten anyone. Right? Now, Mr. Lagumdžija, let me tell you, I've never threatened anyone, except I'm threatening non-compliance, I'm threatening indiscipline. If you recognize yourself in that, that's your problem. That's not my problem. Thank you very much. Mr. Nikola Špirić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18574	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council, ministers and ministers, namely, I thought 34 might be different to talk about these problems since they are important to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but after this opening presentation of Mr Terzić and the silent debate led by the parliamentary majority, almost made a person happy. I have a feeling that Mr. Terzić realized that the speed of the rabbit had never caught, but that it was the perspiration. And a wonderful opportunity for this parliamentary majority in the technical mandate to wait for the next regular elections in October of next year. What I resent for parliamentary majority representatives is why they don't help their prime minister, why they don't want to help him. It is not helpful to keep him in this state in which he says and what the public does not know would be good to know that in the party's leadership, therefore party presidents have concluded that two ministers are in the technical mandate. And you see they won't tell the public. That Dokić and Ivanic are in the technical mandate. And I think the way SDS helps Jelini Đurković defend Mladen Ivanić is fascinating. Well, really, I think that this technical mandate of Mladen Ivanić corresponded to the SDS, because when you hold him wounded in the Council of Ministers, then there is an open pay for all reforms that will be explained to the citizens on one side, and on the other, make moves that have been drawn so far. The reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, which was announced by the leaders of political parties, is why I am here to remind the prime minister, because I think it is very difficult for him and that he has shown the ability to rule both with party presidents, even though the unfortunate think they rule with Adnan Terzić, that they simply do not have the strength, no, that they do not have the strength or the power to help him, or to help him. But in fact, such a condition that you would rule with that bullument is the only thing that is desirable for the prime minister. What else would a man do? What else can he do? Mladen Ivanić explains he is not in the technical mandate. And look at the wonderful miracle. He wants a man in the technical term. It doesn't matter if he stays. They were born in chairs. And now he wants us to take down Adnan Terzić, but to keep him. So now you're forming a story. He can't go with Adnan Terzić, and Adnan at least politely won't say he can't go with Ivanić, but he says you know I accepted his resignation. PDP and SDS say resignations aged 8 months etc. And we have one general public entertainment where most of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, besides this kind of government, sings, me and my charm, he's on the chain, and I'm on the bio. So that's how you do it. And this will be dragged to the next election. He will ostaći a Mladen, he will talk that it is not a technical mandate, but every time the prime minister tells him, sir you are in a technical mandate, or what Mr Lagumdžija spoke about will allow the election of deputies to move to regular elections at the shame of citizens, to receive salaries, but they will not have the right to decide, because it will be done by their deputies, because it is an OHR instructionA. dakle, OHR has assessed that it would be harmful for Mladen to drive him out of the Council of Ministers, because he is the president of the god's important party that can thank for the rest of the reform, so he will say because you love not to work, because you have fine receipts, you sit, come, talk, you have someone, Terzić will not drive him out of the cabinet, but those who are going to decide. Now I'm asking the SDS and the PDP, as they decide, represent the people, and I'm telling the citizens whether the two wounded ministers they trust or not, I don't think they believe can be the protectors of this godless Serbia, 35 Croatians or Bosniaks. Because I feel like we didn't get ministers who cared about the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but whenever you touch it, it's either Serbian or Bosniak or Croatian. Is this the best situation in which the entity and the people it belongs? I'm really asking you to try and find a way out of this situation. Or that, if I were Mr. Terzić, even though I couldn't advise him, I would have put my term of office long ago to change this parliament when I see how loyal you are to him. Not that a man will get 25, he will get 35 votes, he will get SDA, the Party for BiH, HDZ has, the SDS must not be there or here. So man also has the support to reconstruct and choose a new Council of Ministers, I'm just wondering why he's not doing it. And there is the responsibility of Adnan Terzić and I think that responsibility exists. He must make the next step if he wants this country to achieve what citizens expect. If I don't think so, I think it's a mature time for everyone to leave together and choose a new, new Council of Ministers until the election. Where we from the opposition can help the SNSD, we promise you that we will not be part of the parliamentary majority in selecting any Council of Ministers. So you have help choosing the best. And your responsibility is that you won't, that you're harassing both the public and the opposition. So either Adnan comes out and says this is the best Bosnia and Herzegovina has now. So there's responsibility. So we won't bother, we won't fill. You've got an absolute coma. We wait for regular or extraordinary elections, it doesn't matter and then we see the chance as a political option. But we're sorry, and I don't think you have that much emotion to put the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in a desperate and unexplainable situation. I wish, of course, that the situation wasn't like this. But I think the Council of Ministers, with the technical mandate of the two ministers, will simply be that every little wind that comes across is going to be making a crisis within the Council of Ministers, and that is why I think you from the parliamentary majority will be told to help Adnan Terzić. A man must not publicly ask for your help. Well, look, I'm asking for a man to come here to address, and you from the parliamentary majority let him ask him what you can't. He needs a man to put on, I suggest if he praises him one vote I'll vote for him. Here, if anyone hesitates, I want my life back. To put up his mandate, to get naked until the end, his mandate to check Parliament, I am convinced he will get 70% of the vote. And when the party leaders come out, no one has anybody's support. It's a circus. And that's why I think Mr. Terzić has the responsibility to show himself as chairman, and I don't think anything will happen, and if the Council of Ministers happens, Adnan Terzić will have the sympathy of BiH citizens. Just as Mladen Ivanić would have had the strength to say, if he said he could not sit with Adnan. People, goodbye, nothing bad will happen, I'm pulling back, you pick a better one. Just choose the worst one, however you like. No way. There's no way I'm moving anyone from this council, and that's why I don't think I'm going to abuse the pay phone anymore and I'm not going to ask the Prime Minister's Chairman to explain anything to me because I understand everything. If this council of ministers had no support, it only takes one position, so let's say Adnan Terzić, the SDS, to say today, we don't support this council of ministers, this council of ministers doesn't exist. But they can't be unfortunate. They can't, for nothing, you can ask them whatever you want. Adnan, I have a grudge against Adnan Terzić for failing 36 meetings of the Council of Ministers because it could have worked, with two ministers it could have worked. It would be a bit of a scream if Srbin were damaged or not, so it would show essentially whether there was an alliance between the PDP and the SDS. This is how it is to entertain the public. I'm not gonna ask you anything. I get it. I don't ask the chairman to answer me. I really appreciate the position to come and say, ministers are in the technical term, we're looking for a solution, we'll see what these God's eyes, party leaders say, but I think it'll all go to the next new election. Cheers.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18575	Okay, thanks. Mr. Momčilo Novaković answered the question, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18576	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues, my MPs, I must say that today, as I did last time, it seems to me more than the last time I heard anything in this house. So I heard the concept of one of the chiefs of the opposition parties, how to get out of the crisis. Mr. Lagumdžija, of course, all he had to say was who the actors were in that theater that he would do and who should play what in the theater that he showed here. Afterwards, I heard from one of the prominent representatives of one political party, also the opposition, more praises at the expense of the chairman than at the expense of their party's head, at least until now I haven't heard that. I'm just wondering, and then why would the SDS say anything to me after words like this? I don't know what to say better than Mr Špirić, and how I could better express my support for the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Of course Mr Špirić would give support to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I know he would. Not to help the Council of Ministers but to continue the process of separation within the position. Clearly, without intending to take responsibility in this way, but with the intention of doing so in some extraordinary elections. If I were in opposition, I'd give the same voice to the chairman if he had put his trust. And by doing so, of course, through any responsibility, so without absolutely any responsibility, you're still a little bit of evidence, such a heated situation. Fortunately, neither these nor any of the other suggestions I've heard, it's not hard to expose. What's a fact is that we're in a crisis. What's a fact is, it's a clear attitude of the SDS if anyone wants to see it. If it suits someone, some other position, of course, can see other attitudes, as he imagines them. Anyone can be here, unfortunately, that's the situation, imagine what's nice about him. He can say it here, so it looks nice. We have made our position absolutely clear on this issue and made it clear that last time we met. I think that Mr Špirić was not at the plea, perhaps that is why he is not in progress, we have clearly supported the proposal that the Parliamentary Assembly or the House of Representatives ask the chairman to resign. So the SDS Club supported the proposal. We also supported the proposal to allow 37 Council of Ministers or the chairman to try to solve the problem in contact with the parties in the next 15 days. It's been 15 days, the problem hasn't been solved, but now we're working on a solution. We have learned that it is not working to resolve and the representatives of my party are therefore taking part in the process and I see really no reason not to allow this process to be completed. I don't want to say what he's gonna be like today, because I don't know. Maybe he'll end up in one of these probably in one of these ways. Does therefore, by leaving the Council of Ministers, do the rest of everyone in the Council of Ministers, do any new Council of Ministers etc. It seems to me to me before Monday, as I understand it, the chairman, are open this, the possibilities and today to go to anyone's personal address at the Council of Ministers, and any political party, of course, it's possible but it doesn't solve, or it doesn't contribute to what exactly is being said by the opposition as fairy tales, and they want to contribute, and that's kind of an improvement. We were about to put this information to the agenda of the chairman, we were for the simple reason that we believe that Parliament has all the conclusions, even the one that has made, should analyse their realization, although we knew at what stage these processes are, even though we know at what stage the negotiations are, we all know that neither this chairman nor anyone today, the magic wand can resolve it. I've expressed my personal opinion on this matter many times. Of course, I can take it out again. I don't see a solution to the crisis, so I don't see a solution to the crisis in this composition of the Council of Ministers, I see a solution to the crisis in the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, but that's my position. So that's my personal position, and I've put it out more than once, and of course, whenever I'm in a position, I'm going to take it out because I feel that whenever a government comes into crisis, and in normal countries it's perfectly normal, that the government puts the Council of Ministers... puts it on the trust of the majority. And here it would be perfectly normal and that way we would get out of the crisis. Obviously, we don't have all the same opinions on that background, and probably so far, not likely, but so far, we haven't come to such a solution. Personally, the story of how there has been a saturation of reforms, most or political parties, etc., does not stand. Of course, it can be said that personal saturation occurred, and in that case I said, it is necessary to do what is normal everywhere in the world, which is to reshuffle the Council of Ministers, i.e. the practical Council of Ministers should place most of their mandate on the parties' trust. So to the parties who support the Council of Ministers, whether to do so here at the House, whether to do so in negotiations between political parties, or perhaps first in negotiations between political parties and then, afterwards, possibly here at the House's session. I, of course, thank the representative opposition for the great care of this, the position of the SDS, to thank Mr Špirić for making us, which is probably our potential far out of line, and it would be nice if that were the case, I would be very pleased that we have these opportunities spoken of by Mr Špirić, and our relationship with the PDP is not dependent on the views neither Mr Špirić nor SNSD but on our interpersonal relations. Thank you. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18577	Replica, Mr. Špirić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18578	There is hardly any need for my friend Novaković to replicate, but here, for some clarifications. The fact that I didn't talk about my party leader, and the least I'm talking about him, we have something else to talk about, we're talking about the programme and the solution to the problem inside BiH, and we weren't the generators of the crisis. I offered our participation to get out of this, so that you unfortunates take this, more active role, because it belonged to you, because you participate in forming power. But to resolve the dilemma of my commitment to Adnan Terzić, as chairman of what Novaković was talking about, I'm just asking for their support from the SDS. I'm going to launch an initiative to replace Adnan Terzić, only you sign with me, you don't have any dilemmas, we can do it now on a break, you can do it right now if you want. So there's no need to talk hypocritically to me like that because my attitudes have always been public. Novaković says the SDS is not fed up with reforms. I know I'll never be. It's an insatiable political party. They're fed up with reforms, there's no master who can do it and Adnan Terzić can't do it and he says, "I don't see a way out of the crisis." So how will you who are making crises see the way out? So, you're, that's where the crisis masters show themselves, not the masters of finding solutions. And what, I don't think we should be doing some symbiosis here between the SDS and the PDP, but I want to break the delusions of RS voters. I want those unfortunates to understand where these ten years of wandering leads them. I want them to understand that they're going to be asking us to do all the time while you're playing this game for a decade to apologize, without need. I think the masks are down, and that's why I didn't want to address the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I don't even need Novaković, I need the party leaders. With those powers they give Adnan tomorrow, the Srbin or the Hrvat doesn't matter, and nothing can be done. And I have to say, these are options they don't give, these are options they take, but they have to be understood by the citizens and I think what Novaković was talking about is that reconstruction is the solution. This means that they are working together with the prime minister and that might already be a hint, but that reconstruction does not mean Ivanic and Dokić, and that must be known. So you must publicly state what reconstruction means. Are you in favour of the technical mandate, I just want to say that, do you agree that Ivanic and Dokić are in the technical mandate as SDS. And what does reconstruction mean in the name of the Srbin if it isn't then the replacement of the Kovač and this other one. So the reconstruction is only on this level and I think it's all clear. I said no, there's no need to explain myself, but I think this is one faceless game behind the curtains in front of the BiH public.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18579	All right, Mr. Špirić, thank you. It's been a long time for the replica. 39 Mr. Sead Avdić, let Mr. Jozo Križanović be prepared, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18580	Jozo was looking for me before.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18581	I have it written like this, but I allow it, no, not Mr. Križanović, and then Mr. Sead Avdić. I'm going as the secretary kept my records. I'm just reading. Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18582	I would not like to talk about what any party should do, what the Council of Ministers should do, what this Parliament should do. But I would point out one fact that 21 days ago we discussed the same subject and I think certain discussions are repeated. But it is essential for me that this Parliament, in accordance with its constitutional and legal responsibility, reacts in the right way to the state we have. And in that sense, I will remind you that at that session 21 days ago, we reached the conclusion of the first, Parliament House of Representatives expressed concern with the general state of the country and the crisis in the Council of Ministers, caused by the declaration of resignations, etc. And another member commits himself to the Council of Ministers' chairman to reach a solution and completion of the Council of Ministers in consultations with parliamentary parties. Now I ask the question after 21 days, we have the same situation, we have information from the Council of Ministers chairman that only Monday will these talks continue because we do not have any information about when this will end and when an important BiH institution, the BiH government will complete and function normally. In particular, when we have serious assessments, even international communities, that the reform process is also slowed down by the fact that the Council of Ministers has been sitting disorderly. I'm just trying to say what we could do today after all this. And I want to appeal to this parliament's responsibility for the state of the country, and I want to seek and propose that this Parliament plead responsibly to this situation. And we can plead responsibly if we rediscover the dissatisfaction with this state and concern for the state of the country and by limiting the deadline, that's what we missed last time. And that's what I resent to the parliamentary majority, in the proposal for a conclusion was the deadline until this has to end, and that is why I support, here in order not to complicate with new conclusions, I support my colleague Lagumdžija's proposal, that this ends in 15 days maximum. 40 I think it's too long, but let me just say, not to complicate with new proposals, let's keep it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18583	Mr. Sead Avdić, please. Have Mr. Milorad Živković prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18584	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, I think as it has begun, there is a feeling that the opposition is beginning to entertain this paragraph, which is not good. Which is not good, which is not an appropriate state of crisis in BiH. Secondly, the situation of the crisis has become the natural environment of life in BiH. The natural environment, now it's just a matter of how the crisis is maintained. I think the current crisis, it's simply artificially created, well-designed and simply liquefied to someone who has nothing to do with, has nothing to do with the chairman of the Council of Ministers with the crisis, he's just an object of crisis. And in that context, it should be understood. We have in the Council of Ministers three ministers who are practically in the technical mandate. Now, the parliamentary majority is telling the position that it is not her job and that it should not be very excited about such a crisis that is objectively permanently taking place in the Council of Ministers. It is also necessary to see, then, how, in which way the opposition in this House can constructively, uniformly act, simply communicate with the position. Which means you're really asking a question of co-responsibility or a billing at least to the electoral body that sent us into this paraliament. I can't take away the facts, I can't take away the impression, I can't take away the fundamental rule of any parliament in the world today, which is the parliamentary majority must have some document that says, the parliamentary majority numbers 5 parties in the House of Representatives, these are the parties. They agreed, signed, it is the first document, an agreement on the establishment of a parliamentary majority. And, second agreement, I ask you if it is possible to know what the parliamentary majority will do by the end of 2006, i.e. until the 2006 elections. Can we get those two papers? Can it get to BiH, can I get to the citizens of this country? Can the peoples of this country get that? To know what the parliamentary majority will do and not to artificially create a crisis and keep us in the midst of the crisis in BiH. It's a fact of people. That's a fact. Mr. Chairman, do you recognize how a crisis is created in the Council of Ministers, why you don't honestly tell us. What Dr Ivanić is doing, what Dr Ivanic has been doing for 7 months in the Council of Ministers, and you are telling us after 7 months that this is the real cause of the shift, or the acceptance of Dr Ivanic's resignation. So don't think, I mean, this is a House of Representatives, it's gotta be true, it's gotta be easy to face people with the truth. So there's no way without it. You can dampen the instability of the ruling position, you can try to agree on the distribution of chairs, and it doesn't work, it can't go towards simply saving this country. I apologize for my intonation. Which means, I mean, it's not just intrinsic, it's possible that words are intruding, so this fellow hasn't met me yet, that I'm having a little emotional discussion and that just 41 of my intrinsics shouldn't bother him. A little bit more tolerated because we are both committed to tolerance and communication. Which means, if I were to slowly end this, I would pray if it were possible, here with one more peaceful intonation and no indication, anything else, that the parliamentary majority would really offer us these two documents, this from the beginning of the session and the beginning of the establishment of the parliamentary majority, I ask that the parliamentary majority simply look at the functioning of that organism that is opposed to each other and simply cannot function but let them look at it and let them simply overcome, simply the traps that are being placed on their own from the aspect of the artificially generated crisis that is constantly going on in BiH. And in this context, absolutely submits an objective report to the end in the possibility of the Council of Ministers working and everything else, even if it is in a technical mandate because if two first men, conditionally put, of the Council of Ministers and Dr Ivanić are telling each other and seeking resignations, then it best illustrates what kind of psychopathological situation is in that organism or system called the Council of Ministers. So I repeat once again, if it is possible for this country to simply get these two documents that will show who is responsible for the reforms in BiH, which is promised to citizens and peoples by October 2006, and that this parliament can simply work very seriously, seriously on this simple reform course as it is said. Once again, the parliamentary majority must think hard about how, in which they themselves generate artificially construct a crisis that burdens not only this parliament, it is primarily passed on to the lives of ordinary people in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18585	Okay. Thank you very much. Please, 3 hours and 10 minutes, it's a session, we still haven't entered that scheduled session. This is for the intervention of the Members of the agenda. We have 20 points of the agenda, and we have the ambition to finish the session today. I beg you, please nicely, so it depends on you all, I'm just obliged to warn you so, I would ask you to discuss it shorter, to say, you can say in 2-3 minutes what is thought and not to discuss it 15 minutes and five times in those 15 minutes repeat one of those same things. Here, take a look at some stenograms and you'll see. Mr. Milorad Živković has a word. You have a minute to correct the wrong quote, please Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18586	The chairman may even be shorter. It is false of Mr. Avdić to argue that the opposition is bickering this parliament, which is not true because this is a position multiple times,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18587	He's starting to entertain 42.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18588	He's having fun, eh, if I apologize then, but if he's having fun, this opposition doesn't entertain the opposition, he's asking people's questions, Mr. Avdić, who is making the people in this parliament and you from a position or those who are approaching the SDA like you, that's how you want to turn it into a party.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18589	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18590	And one more thing. It is, just a little bit, when we speak to the Council of Ministers under the Council of Ministers Act, he does not do his work with the Constitution and the Council of Ministers Act. You can see that people walk, they don't work. And when you ask that as a question, it's not entertainment, but it's a fundamental question and Parliament that is responsible for position and opposition, in front of the citizens you spoke of, Mr. Avdić, we would vote no confidence today. Because you entertain Parliament in such a way, protecting people who did not deserve to protect this country's interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18591	Please nice, please don't be nice, this was an attempt, so, of course, he tried.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18592	No, no, I said from the point of view of more warning and simply psychopathology that is slowly being established in this House, that the opposition is beginning to entertain this parliament, it is beginning to entertain this parliament, if it is not simply a message to the opposition that I belong to,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18593	Okay, thank you. So, please, if there is no need to correct the wrong, distorting the right allegations, let it go now, Mr. Milorad Živković, be prepared Mr. Elmir Jazić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18594	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would say to my distinguished colleague Avdić, perhaps to correct his position a little bit, to say perhaps some of the opposition, not to generalise all this, I do not know who the opposition is here, what the position in this House is yet to agree on. You know, there are some who often change their commitment. Here you are now saying that you are the opposition, we accept you as such. When I saw the vote about this agenda coming, I was truly happy because I saw that many people 43 asked Mr. Terzić to come and explain the matter. I thought it was a worse position to ask the president, or the chairman of the Council of Ministers, to come and explain to us what's going on in the Council of Ministers, but apparently only one of your sentences, which is that everything will be settled on Monday, has made all the other MPs here too much of what you've come here for. So, it was enough for everyone here to just say that Monday everything is settled. I don't think that's enough. It's not enough because it takes a little longer and you'll agree with me that several times we stressed that BiH does not have what it has, there is no time. And you will also agree that for the first time here, some MPs and your party president say there is a crisis in the Council of Ministers. How long did it take us to agree that this was really a crisis? You didn't tell us today, besides that Monday, how to overcome this crisis, how to overcome the personal, political and reform crisis, we expected to get a little more, if not in writing, then explanations, how to overcome this crisis. I will address you, because obviously the parliamentary majority will not relieve you. I'm talking to you because you're 23.12. In 2002, you gave your approach to exposure, in which you said that given the human resources in particular, this council of ministers had a chance. What about human resources in the Council of Ministers? Do you think that the Council of Ministers still has a chance with the human resources they have? You also said that you are convinced that it can, in the existing constitutional and legal structure of the state, not be blamed as a cohesion factor in the interests of citizens. The first sentence, i.e. the first position in the existing constitutional and legal structure of the state, has no day that your party's representatives do not say that the constitutional and legal order of this country is not good and that it needs to be changed, every day. You said he was good enough and good enough that this council of ministers could work. To impose itself as a cohesion factor in the interests of citizens. If what the Council of Ministers has done, then in my opinion, it is not a cohesion factor in BiH, on the contrary, we have fought more between ourselves and the citizens and I think the peoples than it was at the beginning of your term. I ask you directly, when you were on TV RS, did you come here with the intention of having someone in RS with your statements and with yours, buy or convince that you were right or just buying votes in your people against these others. In this same approach of yours, these nine points where each began with responsibility. I'm asking you at these nine points you've done? Fair enough to say, which dot of these nine you've done. So I'm talking to you as someone who said Mr. Avdić that you're not a crisis generator, you're an object of crisis. Here I think you're the solution, if not the whole crisis, then this current resignation crisis, that's how you solved it when the president of the SDS calls you to say that it's not for you, and that he personally doesn't support you, that the parliamentary majority either gives you or doesn't give you a mandate, depends on what the bosses whisper to them over the phone. Your exit, present for this crisis, that you resign without them handling it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18595	Come on. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18596	So, correcting the wrong quote, Mr. Živković. It refers to the fact that I did not silence parliamentarians with one sentence, that everything will be settled on Monday, but they had no intention of speaking. They voted that if I had this point at the request of the opposition, so they would put me in front of the opposition firing machine and enjoy all of it, listening to what you're talking about both the chairman and the Council of Ministers, etc. That's the problem, and you're wrong, and they don't have the guts to do it. There's another one, I apologize, Mr. Chairman, there's something Mr. Špirić is 100 percent right. Normally, and what I would like to do is offer these parliamentary majority parliamentarians a statement of confidence to me, but I don't, look out, I don't have any legal or business path to it. For what? Because I am appointed by the Presidency and only once again can I, uh, do it with the predsjedništvo, but I can't get these people sitting on behalf of the parliamentary majority parties and knowing that the presidents of the parliamentary majority are sitting and talking on this subject, today they're making up the brides again and raising their hands for this part of the agenda. Just to open up the opposition's space, so they can tell my people everything about me about this and the Council of Ministers, etc. This, uh, what you're saying. That's the real picture of things. And, their presidents sit down, they talk about how to solve the situation and then let them do this, and I would be the happiest man, that today, at this moment, if there was any legal way for me to put MPs today, to check my mandate, I would be the happiest man in the world, but there is no, alone and there is this relationship that is this, which is what it is, and that is why you're wrong when you say that I silenced them with one sentence. It didn't occur to them to do that.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18597	I thank Mr. Beriz Belkić, the replica and then Mr. Jahić's discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18598	The replica of a statement by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, which I have come to understand from this occasion, that MPs, who voted to include the point, information from the chairman of the Council of Ministers on the resolution of the crisis, had practically intended to put the chairman in front of a firing machine. So, when it comes to the Party for BiH MPs' club, which has also suggested the conclusion that it has given you 15 days to try to solve the matter, our intentions have been to hear things go and at which stage we are and nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18599	Mr. Elmir Jahić has his word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18600	Thank you, Chairman. We should not be surprised, Mr. Chairman, why we have this kind of prolonged debate on this agenda point because it's really a 45 serious situation, it's not just a matter of the last month, two, but surely here's the last six months we have a serious situation in BiH. And, perhaps, and it will sound strange, but I really agree with many of the views expressed by some representatives and opposition and here also by Mr Špirić and Lagumdžija, there is a lot of useful and thinking and attitudes, suggestions and suggestions, and Mr Novaković, therefore Mr Avdić, has a lot to take advantage of today. And, in addition to the opposition which is always present, that the opposition loves whether, very often and unargumented to criticise the hair here, there's really a lot that's useful and I think we should finally go to that point, to define some conclusions, to help all of us get out of this situation. There were some other attitudes that I, through which I personally can't overcome and which are therefore directed towards whether it's opposition to whether it's the president towards the chairman of the Council of Ministers who are too personal and even if you want to get in the spirit of insult, about inability, I don't know any running, etc. Interestingly, therefore, this council of ministares led by Mr. Terzić managed to do a lot of things that others had not done before. So, one huge set of reforms. So these people were able to do it, too. But this opposition has the right to do so because, as they say, a state that has such an opposition should not worry about its future. However, I would agree with that, I would agree with that, that here to a large extent play so-called. policy-based objectives. So, you look at how one thing started to happen from those sanctions, so a number I don't know, politicians, etc. in the RS area. You have a simple, some ask a question, I don't have an answer yet, but they're asking if anyone really cares about not implementing police reform, if anyone cares, here's the announcement of constitutional reform, that it doesn't come to that at all. So, you shouldn't be too smart next year, there's no constitutional reforms, it's election year, and I don't think anyone's going to have much guts to engage in constitutional reforms. In this way, there is simply a blocking of the Supreme Executive Authority of the Council of Ministers. I do not say, therefore, that there is no responsibility, individually and members of the Council of Ministers and the Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, normally, the first person of the Council of Ministers has the highest responsibility. However, it is still most dominant to stop the reform process in this way, therefore my personal opinion. Some of the procedures are whether, some members of the Council of Ministers have contributed in a good part of it, so if you want the leaders of political parties, etc. We should have one thing in mind, this council of ministers is not the private council of Adnan Terzić, nor was he chosen solely by the will of any government in BiH, whether it is entities, cantons are formed in this way, but it is an expression of will as we like to say, parliamentary majority. So this Council of Ministers is a fruit of compromise, a proposal for whether, political parties, their interests, attitudes etc. And it is certain that both Adnan Terzić and each of us, if he were to make it, if he were to make it his way, let me say the taste, according to my own standards, the Council of Ministers would certainly differ from what we must establish. This is how it was before us, so even during the previous kingdoms, and so it will be in the future, and so it is everywhere in the world. From there is indeed a great responsibility for the parliamentary majority whose member I am, and I think that this 46 deadline by Monday is really, really too long, so we have one serious situation that has been going on for six months now, we cannot allow constant prolonging over this problem. I think Malta doesn't have to talk day and night, negotiate until these substances are resolved. So I support this proposal of Mr. Križanović's conclusion and what was also a talk about this plan of activity, so we have to.... what this council of ministers wants, what this government is going to do, I don't know, is it 3 months, is it this one, until the new year. So here we have two possibilities, the parliamentary majority, so the political parties that form the parliamentary majority, need to come up with their solution as soon as possible. Is it a reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, whether these are shifts, whether it remains so, but therefore it must be and must behave seriously, so nowhere in the world there is such that political parties' views are one thing, MPs another, Council of Ministers of Third, this is really not an appropriate situation. So either we have to figure out what we're going to do, how as soon as we find that solution, a lot, and I think it's a lot by Monday, or some other political parties are going to form power. So to see how you can do it. I am therefore fully convinced that the political parties forming the parliamentary majority can find the strength to overcome some problems, to agree as soon as possible with a reconstruction of the amendment to the Council of Ministers but with a clear definition of attitudes and work programme what needs to be done in the next period, that we can get out of these problems. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18601	Okay, thank you. I'm begging you, we can chase with the wrong allegations, watch out, like this, Mr. Gligorić, I've got the impression, yes, but well, I'll shut up, I'll tell you something else when I say what I'm about to say. Please, have a seat. So there are false allegations, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18602	Thank you. Two false allegations. He goes out, like he won't listen, that's how the prime minister behaves, the opposition should listen. The wrong quote is under 1, Emire under 1, which is that the government doesn't have to worry about this opposition. The people of Božiji should be concerned, let me and the opposition of Lagumdžija, Kunić and these other people be eternally in opposition but the people do not care, that the people may be better. That's why I had to say, the thing is that you're burdened by authority, and that's what's important is the other thing, where you said that I personally insulted a man. I'm not that kind of man, but you make untouchable people in BiH that you can't even ask a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18603	Thank you, Mr. Gligorić, time's up, thank you, time's up. Mr. Nikola Špirić, thank you for your time, Mr. Nikola Špirić. Please nice, you're off the microphone so you know, you're not running at all, like you're not talking, sit down. 47 Mr. Nikola Špirić, please. You'll get your word, please, Mr. Špirić, for a moment, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18604	Oh, I'll, of course, be very brief. I asked only for the opportunity to confirm part of the story Mr. Jahić spoke, and even about what Mr. Gligorić disagreed on. It's his real quote that if the country has such an opposition, it shouldn't worry about the future. And he's absolutely right about that. But there's a bad situation being debated here today. So we are looking for a solution to a situation that is not right today and it is almost certain that the future belongs to the opposition. I congratulate my colleagues, Jahić, and I think they've figured that out in the U.S.A. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18605	Thank you. Just a little bit, please. You'll get the word, Mr. Jahić, for the replica, but there are only people who want to replicate your discussion. Two more people have come forward, Ms. MInićević has a replica
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18606	I wanted to replicate Mr. Terzić, that was before all these speakers. I thank you. You didn't give me your word when I needed it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18607	Thank you very much. Mr. Kunić, not if I hadn't given you my word, you would have received the word, but I was counting on it to be a replica. This is where I keep the records. You have the same replica, Mr. Kunić? Mr. Petar Kunić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18608	I'm not up until now, I mean, I'm sorry there's no Council of Ministers chairman here to tell him, about the legal possibility of resigning. Thank you. And I'd remind him, everything I said last time, that that's how you had to do it. So, that's a technical mandate, that you can't name the performers of duty, etc. It all turned out to be true, regardless of the outcome of the House of Representatives vote. And now I would suggest that if you want to, you want to resign, you can do it, resignations are made when legitimacy is lost. So, if you've lost your legitimacy in this House, you resign. It's done in all civilized countries. So there's legality, there's legitimacy. If you think you've lost your legitimacy, you can resign. That's a fact. And it is Parliament who will give you 48 confirmations of your resignations, give you confirmation of your appointments, give you confirmation of your discharge. Talk to the Presidency, which will then be done in your own way. So there is no problem with the legal way of doing things, I think it is possible if this Parliament says, because it is crucial, if it does not give you confirmation, you cannot be chosen. Also if you have lost your legitimacy, you must resign. That's normal. In fact, there's been a lot of talk here about the production of the crisis. I would also agree that a crisis is being produced, only it is very difficult to identify who has produced this crisis in the Council of Ministers. I have to admit, it's very difficult to identify. Whether they're international representatives or domestic. It's very hard to say. Whether someone wants to extend their mandate, perhaps that, may be the reason, but in main, the crisis was produced by the move of the chairman of the Council of Ministers. You illegally replaced Mr Ivanić. I have to say it. He resigned, seven months of resignation was present, worked still, so silently you accepted, he actually continued to work, so he withdrew his resignation. So, one legal situation has gone to a fact-finding state and a known fact, you've accepted resignation after 5-6-7 months. You had to replace him, make a decision on Mr Ivanić's shift in order to give this one to Parliament. You did it illegally. And there's the source of all the crises. Now you won't take this move that you should, Ivanic has wondered he won't accept, and now we have a situation. We've got one stalemate, a stalemate. I hope that the position that here works very strongly, very, very ambitiously, will find a solution very quickly and that we will have a very quick solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18609	Mr. Jahić, here's a replica, briefly.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18610	Well, I'd just like to say, so it's not true that I said that the government can sleep peacefully while there's whether or not this opposition is what Mr. Gligorić said, although unfortunately I agree with that, so it was a joke that I was saying for the first time. I would really like, if a member of a positioning party, to be a member of the parliamentary majority, to have one stronger one of these, an opposition that would help one better work, both executive and legislative authorities.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18611	Thank you very much. No one's answered their word again. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. Dear colleagues and colleagues, so last time we concluded that this one, we received information from the chairman of the Council of Ministers and tasked the chairman of the Council of Ministers to discuss with the political parties present in this parliament to seek a solution to the current situation in the Council of Ministers. Today we have received information from the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and all I can offer you 49, therefore, is that the chairman of the Council of Ministers is, therefore, still working on the realization of our conclusion, which is a key sentence for the decision of this Parliament and all I can offer you, is that the conclusion that we have made earlier is actually the conclusion that remains in force and the chairman of the Council of Ministers is working on the realization of that conclusion. That's what I'm proposing, so this information on the realization of our conclusion is being taken into account and we're still staying at our conclusion. So, I suggest we get to the point first and then I'll put these suggestions that I got from some of my colleagues to the vote. Prepare to vote on the proposal of this conclusion. Vote now. All right. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina with 22 votes in favour, without against and with 5 votes abstentioned and enough entity majority adopted a conclusion which therefore took note of the Council of Ministers' information on the implementation of your last conclusion and the House of Representatives remains at its earlier conclusion and asks the Council of Ministers to work on the implementation of our conclusion from the previous session. So that's what we're voting on right now, and that's the conclusion. There's no deadline. Please, I know what I'm saying. Mr. Križanović, please don't come in or any of you while I speak. If you want to run the session properly. So I take care, I am obliged, unlike you, to take care of all the elements, and among other things, of the Council of Ministers Act, of whether the law prescribes deadlines, whether the law does not prescribe deadlines, and I am responsible for any proposal for a conclusion that we offer to you here. You of course have the right to propose and I will put your proposals to a vote. It is your democratic right and my obligation, and it is the right for the rest of us to accept it or not to accept it. And that's where it ends. So far, we have received Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's proposal for a conclusion that reads, please, which is nice, which is, if I can figure this out by the end, where is Mr. Lagumdžija? Please nice, I'll really try to decrypt this, to be by 15 at the latest. 7. come out with an emergency reform plan, help me Branko, please, with an emergency reform plan in... Please have Mr. Lagumdžija come into the O.R. to read the conclusion. I'm not going to deal with decrypting his handwriting. Give me the following conclusions, Branko, please. You have no more conclusions. We move to the next item of the agenda, until Mr. Lagumdžija comes to the O.R., we'll vote on this conclusion, that's A.2. Journal of the 58th Session of the House of Representatives 50 I am opening a discussion on the minutes of the 58th session of the Representative's House. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. We're voting on the minutes of the 58th session. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina unanimously, as I see it, with 35 votes for, without and without abstention, enough entity majority, adopted the minutes of the 58th session. We're going to the third item of the agenda, that's A.3. Confirmation of the appointment of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Deputy Foreign Minister So, yesterday, we received the Council of Ministers' decision to appoint Mr Anton Ril as Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You made that decision this morning. You also got your biography. I'm opening the debate. Who wants to talk? Mr. Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18612	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the previous point in which we discussed the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, or I don't know what will happen by Monday, I think it would be appropriate then to wait for a full reconstruction of the Council of Ministers to see who will be president, or the Council of Ministers, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, so that everything in the package will work together, because in this way we can come to the conclusion that man can be, right, removed.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18613	Yeah, yeah, just you. Thank you very much. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Prepare to plead. We vote therefore on a proposal to confirm the appointment of Deputy Foreign Minister. Vote now. May I have your attention, please? - 27 for, 5 against, and 5 abstentions, enough entity majority. May I have your attention, please? - I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by majority vote, has reached a decision confirming the decision of the chairman of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers on the appointment of Mr Anton Ril as Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 51 I congratulate Mr. Rilo and wish him much success in his work on this responsible duty. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we move on to the fourth item of the agenda, that is, we will return to Zlatkovo later, that is Ad.4. MPs' questions and answers I'd like to ask you if you can refrain, to move on. You can't. Then let me, then let me say a few words. So for this session, we have not received a single answer to any parliamentary questions. We received a copy of the memo sent by the cabinet of the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers on 16 June to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the issues of Sead Avdić at the 56th session asking for full information on talks by the chairman of the Council of Ministers and other BH officials with German Chancellor Šeder. So we were informed by this letter that the Foreign Ministry should provide complete information on the visit of Chancellor Šveder, or notes on the talks held on that occasion. So no new answers. Give me new questions if there are, but I'd like to ask you a reduced, maximum redecoration. Mr. Selim Bešlagić. Let's move on, please. Let Mr. Tihomir Gligorić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18614	At the 54th session of the House of Representatives of the Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina held on 12.4.2005, the Council of Ministers, as an institution that manages indirect taxation through the Management Board, was responsible for its work, I asked a parliamentary question which reads: - Is it possible that Bosnia and Herzegovina's indirect taxation administration as a legal follower of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Customs Administration and its director as a responsible person in that administration did not respect the former law of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Customs Administration, which is the investment of 5 million KM to build the most modern customs terminal in Bosnia and Herzegovina? After more than 2.5 months of asking this parliamentary question to this day, I have not received an answer from a competent institution. Since I have an open suspicion that this is about criminal activities involving the responsible persons within the Directorate for indirect taxation, which is not respected by earlier commitments, has been opened by a new tender for the construction of a customs terminal in Tuzlo, 52 I request that the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives establish a temporary commission to visit this customs terminal, and deliver to the House detailed information concerning the opening of a tender for the construction of the same, obtaining the necessary work permits, and the conclusion of a administrative contract between the owner and the terminal users. Another question: - In the period July of this year, the cleaning of the Podlic hydropower plant on the Lima River, located in Novi Varosa, Serbia-Montenegro, was planned. This is about millions of tons of waste of oil and other harmful materials that have been deposited in the Podlic hydropower plant for years. It will cross the Lima River into the waters of Bosnia and Herzegovina by pouring into the Drin River, which could cause an ecological disaster in which it will destroy the fish fund, the ecosystem and pose a threat to a possible epidemic. I ask the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is there an international, interstate agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro on this issue? - Is this procedure a violation of the law, and if it doesn't represent what to do with damage and third-- can this be prevented? I got this from the Rudog organization.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18615	Thank you very much, Mr. Bešlagić. Let the services take Mr. Bešlagić's material, bring the question. Mr. Gligorić has yet to sign up and let's move on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18616	Thank you. I ask the BiH Council of Ministers to review the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs' decision not to extend the deadline for issuing citizens' personal documents for a number of municipalities. Explanation. I ask this question because I believe that BiH citizens are damaged by a decision that exposes new unnecessary financial costs, waste of time, unnecessary new citizens' columns in front of other state institutions, and I believe that the government is thus further humiliated. Why such a measure was adopted for citizens who regularly and patiently waited in ranks and did not turn up because of the bureaucratic measure of the current government. I think that, at least because of those people who were waiting where the bureaucratic counter closed in front of them, where tens of thousands of people stayed, at three o'clock in the morning, were coming, that 53 one day a citizen in some Europe and my Doboi only one day didn't come, I would understand that measure. But if 150 people came back at three o'clock, not to mention young people who come out of the cafe at two o'clock and then sell for 50 marks to the one who's in a hurry, and not to talk now about the beliefs of citizenship, the performances of the born, where the M.E.P. asks again that within 15 days the state authority that gave its seal, the signature from the same person, and that only 15 a day, bureaucracy, can end instead of 50. Let's really reconsider that, if we think it's okay for these citizens not to turn out to be my opposition story and concern for the citizens again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18617	Thank you. No one ever checked in again. And Mrs. Sopta, I apologize to Mrs. Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18618	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm asking the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers. In fact, 35 Hrvat returnees returned to the White Hill Parish near Dubocac. With their money and personal work, they restored their homes. But they haven't had electricity in four years. People mostly live on products that themselves produce by processing the few countries that are not mined and grown cows and goats, and they would need electricity to store foods. They process the earth in a primitive way because they're called the machines they had robbed. I ask the competent ministry if it intends to do something soon to keep these returnees and encourage possibly new ones in terms of bringing electricity to this place, as a minimum of existence, as a sign of goodwill and encouraging returnees throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially where returns are very bad. Here, I'm as short as I can get.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18619	Thank you very much. You've been really expedient. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18620	I thank the chairman. I'd ask a question, and I'd start an initiative. The question is, how far did it go with police reform? So one of the remaining 16 conditions for a possible fulfillment of the 16 conditions of the fissibility of the stupa, the start of negotiations on the Association and Association Agreement, and I am also launching the initiative to invite party presidents at the first 54 sessions, the next session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the House of Representatives and to discuss police reform. So, eventually, he solves the issues. I appreciate that, with all the respect for exotic places, Neuma, Doboja, somehow those flakes, threads, etc. The place to discuss this one of the key reform requirements and conditions for the further process of convergence with European integration is the Parliamentary Assembly. Therefore, both the question and the initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18621	Thank you, Mrs. Hadžiahemtović. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Moranjkić is calling for a break. There'll be a break very soon. That's how I understood him. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are now going to do this part of the agenda next. After that, we'll give you one piece of information and we'll take a break from about 40 minutes for lunch. Please. It will come, it is your problem that you went out, that vote will be over the session and back to the agenda, so all MPs who go out know each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18622	Wait a minute, it's a business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18623	We're going to the next item on the agenda. Let's go to the next agenda point, that's the fifth point. Please sit down. Ad.5. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina, following an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, Your Honor, may I have your attention, item five of the agenda? You can't get the word, Mr. Lagumdžija. He can't, he can't. We're going to point five, because I said what I had to say. Where's Brano now with me here in this. It's used to be a threesome, isn't it? It's not a three. MPs' questions and answers are three. Therefore, the Council of Ministers delivered on 13 June the draft Law amending the Law on Public Procurement with a request to consider and adopt an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. 55 You received the bill with a call for a session. You've seen that it's about changing deadlines again, now from six to nine months. I'm opening a hearing on an emergency request. Who wants to talk? You want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18624	Mr. Chairman, you are required to give me your word when I request a business intervention in the Rules of Procedure. That's what you do when I'm looking for business intervention. That's one thing. The second thing, I think what you've done, is the least spoken of indiscreetly. That's how you harass someone else's house. I have no intention of participating today in Parliament's debate and if you wanted to get me off the phone, thank you, goodbye. Let it serve you the honor of making it impossible to cast a vote on one elemental matter concerning the future of this Council of Ministers and the crisis in the country. That's the least unremarkable word, Mr. Chairman. And since you will certainly try to take away my word, I will spare you this because I have no intention of participating in this kind of rape of Parliament that you have allowed yourself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18625	Dear colleagues and colleagues continue to work. So we're on the fifth item of the agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18626	speak from place, no discussion between Lagumdzija and Ćeman is included
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18627	May I have your attention, please? I'm running a session. Please. So here's how it is. I don't want to argue with Mr. Lagumdžija about this at all. There's no need, to honor him with all the things he brought out here when he spoke of me. May he serve his honor and continue to do what he thinks he should do. His conclusion will be put to the vote when it comes to order again. He wasn't in the O.R. when he was due to vote, and that's his problem. It's not my problem, it's this Parliament's problem. Here you go. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18628	First of all, I don't think you as chairman have responded properly. A colleague of Lagumdžija had the right to suggest a conclusion and it is his right to ask that we make a statement about him. You are, of course, I am witness to it as an MP and I speak for the dignity of this house and you as chairman and college, you were obliged to carry out this procedure. It is logical to write a proposal for a conclusion in a comprehensible language, letter and more. If you weren't able to do that, it was logical to ask it to type. So you tried to vote on it. His reaction is not in place, but it is not yours to explain to your colleagues that he is not protesting leaving this parliament, because they were not qualified to make a statement. Therefore, you should have done it for parlametan, not because of you personally to explain to your colleague that there is no reason to leave the session. And with this explanation that he stated. That's why I'm protesting.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18629	Not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18630	It's another thing, but I don't think it's simply the kind of thing that should be allowed for this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18631	Well, of course, thank you, Mr. Ćeman. We're at the fifth point. Mr. Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18632	I'm looking for a break for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18633	You'll get a break just to end this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18634	Stick to the Rules of Procedure, Chairman. When you're looking for a break, you're taking a break right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18635	At the request of the SDP Club, I'm giving a 15-minute break. 57 [[PAUZA]] We're going back to work. The SDP Club president, Mr. Jozo Križanović, requested a break. I give him my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18637	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18638	May I have your attention, please? The president of the SDP Club has his word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18639	Well, we were looking for a break for four reasons. First, to relax this atmosphere that is unnecessarily educated. Second, to type in the text of the conclusion, although it should have been done by the Service. We have concluded that the Rules of Procedure have been injured and that in this sense we understand the reaction of our colleagues Lagumdžija and the Fourth Last, we are asking that this proposal be put to the vote immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18640	Yes, thank you very much. So, dear colleagues, we're on the fifth item of the agenda. I didn't need to explain to Mr. Lagumdžija everything that happened until he was in the O.R., and I also suffered criticism from some colleagues, believing that you were all witnesses and saw what was going on here in the O.R. I don't want this to be the subject of some big debate in this house, but you were all witnessing that after my conclusion was reached by the parliamentary majority, I said that we would put the other conclusions to the vote and ask the Secretary of the House for Mr Lagumdžija's proposal, I tried to read it, along with the secretary, calling the secretary for help and we couldn't decrypt Mr Lagumdžija's handwriting, and here's whoever wants to take this manuscript, so let him see if he can decrypt it accurately and clearly and afterwards I asked Mr Lagumdžija to come to the hall to read his record, or conclusion. He was gone and I said we'd come back to this matter later. And I continued, of course, on the agenda. So you were all witnesses to it. I don't want this to be any kind of incident. After that, Mr. Lagumdžija came and I had the intention of returning to this conclusion when the time came. It is my opinion that this conclusion should be returned to 58 when the agenda is over that all unfinished questions in the session will be completed. That's what I said. However, a word is required to be obtained when asked for, or there is no alternative. I can't accept such a way of working, and if anyone thinks I should do so, let them apply for my shift immediately. I prefer not to sit here, but to act ultimatically on the demands of anyone. And I don't think the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives is hurt, that I have properly conducted the procedure, and I have suffered insults of course I didn't want to answer, but I just thanked and said that they serve the person who brought them out. And let that be his problem. But since it is not up to me to decide this home, we now have a proposal from Mr. Joza Križanović, president of the SDP Club, who is asking to vote on the conclusion of Mr. Lagumdžija right now. I call upon you to state whether you are in favour of the vote, or when it comes to order on a regular basis, it creates, when the session is crossed, to return to questions that are unfinished. I invite you colleagues to make a statement about Mr. Joza Križanović's proposal. It's you who make the decision. And if such a proposal were to come, believe me, I would put it to a vote, not ultimately at the moment when I'm opening the fifth item of the agenda, which is quite another nature, to look for a word. Here you go. As far as I'm concerned, I'll be held back, I won't be against it, I won't go off. So make up your mind about it. I'm putting Mr. Joza Križanović's proposal to vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 13 for, 8 against, no entity majority from the Federation. Mr. Raguž is not here. We don't have a third member of the College. He'd go right now. Where's Raguž? Come on, Raguž. You're changing him. Are you agreeing to vote on this immediately? Are you agreeable? Since I've been abstentioned, I wasn't against it, then it's logical that I say that here I am consensual and I am, yes, to help resolve this situation. We voted, so we made a decision to vote on Mr. Lagumdžija's conclusion right away. So, here I'm not against, I've been held back and I won't be against it now because I've been held back. The proposal for Mr Lagumdzija's conclusion is to come up with an emergency reform plan no later than 15.7. This is a concise conclusion, meanwhile, with a plan for emergency reforms in the three-month period and a new Council of Ministers' re-enhancing the reconstruction of the current appointment of the foreign minister, Minister of 59 communications, Minister of Foreign Trade or forming a new, closed bracket in order for the Parliamentary Assembly to adopt appropriate decisions. Do you have a clear proposal for Mr. Lagumdžija's conclusion? Please, please, so we're back to the first item of the agenda and you're learning Mr. Lagumdžija's proposal for a conclusion. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 9 is for, 10 against, there is no general parliamentary majority. Five abstentions, but there's no entity majority from any entity. So I find that the conclusion, the proposal of Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's conclusion, did not win the parliamentary majority. Mr. Selim Bešlagić asked for a word. And just so I know, the listing will please prepare you, who want it. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we move on. We are now going back to the attainment of the agenda, that is - the Council's request, the fifth item of the agenda, the Council of Ministers' request for consideration of the proposal for a law amending the law on public procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. I read the introductory part relating to this item of the agenda, so yesterday we received, the Council of Ministers delivered to the House on 13 June the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Procurement with a request to consider and adopt an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. You received a bill with a call for today's session and you saw that it was a change of schedules again, now from 6 to 9 months. I'm opening an emergency hearing. Who wants to talk? Mr. Vinko Zorić. After that, Mr. Jozo Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18641	I really think this law should go according to Article 105, but I think the Council of Ministers took a short period of time. So we're constantly increasing this for the second time in three months. They should have taken at least 9 or 12 months, so if they had taken, say, 9 months, then we wouldn't still have to make this second change, and I'm convinced that at the end of the ninth month we're going to make the next change, so we're going to go out again in three months and so on. 60 I don't know. There's no such thing as a novice. If they don't intend to form this agency, this office should then say it here and then delay a little longer, not keep one and the same law repeating in this home.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18642	Thank you. Mr. Jozo Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18643	Thank you. I don't think I'd be long. I agree very well with my colleague Zorić. This is already me thinking the fourth, fifth law in these last three, four months coming to Parliament to change deadlines. I talked last time about being against such a way, especially when it comes from a proposing without a single word of reason. You see, in the light of this law, it is because the deadlines have passed, and no agencies have been formed. And that's the only explanation. The reason is because the ministries that are now doing the job on behalf of, or instead of the agency, will do the job illegally. There's one more thing. You see 10.2. is extended for the first time, requested the first extension of this to three months. This means that the 10.5th deadline and this extension has expired and now we have one vacuum of a month and a few days, and the question is, who was doing it on behalf of the agency? The ministry was working. Did that work inelegatingly? And no one's gonna tell me that there's not any kind of public procurement business in that period. So I think it's really incorrect without even one reason to explain why, after 9 or 6 months of law enforcement, that is, there is no agency already formed. Does this mean, as counterpart Zorić says, that in two, three months, we will again receive a routine request that no one will pay attention to and just continue to deepen this problem. Does that mean the ministries like them to do that job on behalf of the agency? And that's why I'm against this bill of law, with no valid argument and no time limit when it's really going to come to this formation. And that's one picture of the implementation of our reform laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18644	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18645	As you remember when it was the first extension, I spoke in a similar tone in which Mr. Križanović spoke today. I am still on the stand that I will always vote against such requests by the Council of Ministers, because I believe that through Parliament they are asking us to cover their unhappiness. That's one thing. 61 and 2. We have one general conclusion that stands in force from two years ago, which is that any document, in particular the law, will not be discussed if there are no proposings. I see this as another inconclusive inconclusion of the Council of Ministers that they're unseriously working, em and ending up unseriously not being able to come at least someone they could, maybe there's a porter at the Ministry's door to send him out and say I'm the one who's, so you know that I hear what you're going to say, you don't care at all, and they're making one mess at work. I'm also against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18646	Thank you very much. Who else? Mr. Križanović. Here you go. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18647	...I attend the funeral of a good friend in Travnik. I'm asking for your understanding.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18648	Of course, my colleague, you're all right. I think we have a quorum after you leave. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. We move to a statement on the request for a procedure under Article 105 concerning this law amending the Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 20 for, 6 against, 3 abstentions, enough entity majority. I find that the procedure under Article 105 has been adopted. We're going to make a statement about the law itself. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 22 for, 4 against, 3 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has passed the Law amending the Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're moving to agenda six, that's all. Please, we have therefore a proposal from fellow Špirić to take a 30-minute lunch break now. I was, though, and I promised, but suddenly this 15, 20-minute break turned out. You know what, I suggest we take a 30-minute break for the people, but please, nice, co-workers and colleagues make it 30 minutes. You can eat in 30 minutes. 62 We continue in 30 minutes, and until then let someone from the Council of Ministers be informed who will come here and defend this information. Break 30 minutes. Continue, please, continue at 15 and 10. ...we don't have to finish today. [[PAUZA]] In the meantime, the College held a debate about my proposal this morning about that Commission on the Law on Railways, since the House had already passed the law, I knew that this would happen, but here after this session that we are planning to end so today, and therefore I ask you to be expedient in the debate we will hold another very short five-minute session in the process of holding sessions, with only one point that is – the appointment of these three members in the joint commission so that this joint commission can work tonight and tomorrow during the day, and then tomorrow after the plenary session, so you know, again we hold one session of our home with only one point that is – the report of that commission. It's two sessions, but that's better and so on, even if two sessions had more. They don't cost anything, though, because they're going to be part of the already called sessions, so that you have that in mind, and I ask the presidents of the clubs to set me up, to determine the names of these MPs who will enter this joint committee to comply with the text of the Law on Railways, that we have those three names, but we're going to end it. So we keep working. We have a quorum. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, that's Ad.6. Information on the state of security of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2004 We received this information from the Ministry of Security on 13 May 2005. The information was discussed by the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy and took note of the knowledge or knowledge and referred to the discussion of the House with the conclusion contained in the report, which reads: - In order to prevent illegal crossover of people and goods, and in general to ensure more quality protection of Bosnia and Herzegovina's state border and Hercedgovina DGS should, in the short run, draw up specific information on the quality of the service and carry out internal control of the work of current employees, and provide information to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for consideration. I'm opening a debate on this information. This is where the Minister of Security is present. He will, of course, closely monitor our debate and, if necessary, address Parliament. For now, Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić has signed up. Here you go. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18649	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, I will start with the front page and the dilemma whether it is the state of security of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because these are still not the same 100% concepts. I stand more on the stand when I read the content that it is a state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm going from page to page. What I noticed and what I felt was the need to comment in a certain way. In the case of security at point 1 of this strong immigration, border crossings, etc. I noticed that there was no treatment in the report of a very pronounced problem, which is just coming, it's a problem for the Kinez to enter Bosnia and Herzegovina. I argue that 80% of these people in Bosnia and Herzegovina are not registered, is inside and imports of the Chinese mafia, which today is one of the world's leading mafias. It is well known to you, and the other day our press has already announced the beginning of the entry of extremely suspicious goods from some kind of chocolate, dagger, etc. cold weapons to drugs in this country. I think it should be in a certain way under the glass of our particular organs. Secondly, the Council of Ministers, making up this information, said it was noted that there were organised crime here, which is irrefutable and nothing new has been said or discovered. Is it to this extent or is it 10 times worse, it's a matter of discussion, matter of condition, assessment and evaluation. I think it's a lot of niggers than it was in information, but it's stuck with my eyes next, which is that the Council of Ministers says that one of the express criminal forms of manipulation and human trafficking is not possible to do well because there is no law in this country. I guess we're waiting for someone in space to send us that bill and we should send a telegram to hurry up, maybe they forgot to send us that law to regulate that matter. And normally you wouldn't talk about content any further, because I'm going to try to be as short as possible. Furthermore, when it comes to crimes against the security of people and names, it is, if you look at the data that has been thrown out worryingly, because it feels like a rapid growth relative to past times, which is all wrong and worrying and discouraging to me that these crimes are growing. I especially must point this out, because I believe that this competitive problem is being brought back, especially the return of refugees and displaced persons, who are under attack by this criminogenic group that handles this work and which is treated in this part of the information. I will especially point out further between a whole series of crimes that are present in our premises alienating motor vehicles and their fate. Please, today in Bosnia and Herzegovina there are over 300 car wastes that are wildly registered, because there is no, decadently there is no legal regulation under which these large department stores called car waste, or car houses work. They don't give anything to anyone, but, I say, the main initiator and the main, the main abstraction of stolen, alienated vehicles on this and other premises across Europe are here. So that's one crime that's measured by hundreds of millions. 64 Please, the action to stand by, I remember the other day, was launched by the police and the MUP of Tuzlan. Believe it or not, the chief inspector reports within half an hour in my presence of one of the car owners, yes, we are coming, remove anything that is suspicious. What's he saying? He says the crime of that form has been dragged into the peaks of this miserable and unfortunate state. We all know that, too, but I was there by accident and heard it with my ears and registered. When talking about economic crime, it's wound cancer, and I particularly point out the crime it deals with, listen to state and other authorities as customs, border service, inspection of all levels, tax authorities, some state entity and cantonal ministries that are in charge. Please, I've potentiated in this House one of the hotspots that is in this house, but I'm misunderstood and I'm probably going to insist on it. Furthermore, organised crime is not particularly mentioned in the country's unambiguous activity in transition, which is privatisation. We, through privatisation, know that we have stolen this country decadently. Whether someone admits it or not, that's another thing. But what my dear friend says, I guess that's it, is our people, so let's keep it that way. Next, I didn't see it right here, but the subtitle is the state of traffic security. Please. It's criminal on a number of grounds. It's a small war and jungle on paths that carry, believe it or not, what I've come to already comes to 5% of the national income. This is where the state needs to imagine, up to 5%. The world is between 0.35 and 1.5%, and we already have it coming in, knocking on the door 5% of gross national income, which the funds that are state, or any of these are being followed, have led to collapse. By coming these funds to collapse, we'll bring the state to its collapse. And I take it as my right to put a finger on this House's payphone at that crime scene and that something must be done immediately. And not to be any longer, at the end of what's a little bit of talk about in this information, and I think it was supposed to have a place in it, which is the judiciary and the prosecution. It's a cancer that he mastasized in our home. I claim that the reform in these areas has gone in a completely wrong direction, that it is nothing that is being submitted to us. I tried to tell Mr. Pejić here the other day in this House that nothing is true what you're saying to the public. I claim that the mischosen judges, that they are not tried by the law that we have passed, that the judges are corrupt, not all normal, I have to make that fence, but about one large number, that they do not work, that they build up the cases still instead of solving them and what's worse, there are dreams about the prosecution that practically hides, covering, in other words, all of this that needs to be processed and brought to the public and done in a certain way. It's all hidden under that independent judiciary. I said it like this, an independent anarchy, doing what I want and how I want to do it, and I don't answer anyone, because I have an independent label... I also have other labels that may be more vulgar, but you would not this time visa the dignity of this Parliament and in the extreme of your personality. 65 Here is the key to negative criminal phenomena, and if we don't put gentlemen from the ministry and other factors, including us from Parliament, I don't think there's much we can do. What is particularly worrying, what came out in public, and it is about organised crime, you could see that these are our public figures, that these are our statesmen, that they are our politicians, that they are certain authorities, and especially those who need to be prosecuted. You saw, whoever was following had the ability to follow in the Brcko District the other day, when the MP told the chief of police, sir your officers were the main drug dealers on the street. In my eyes, he says to Parliament. That's what's worrying. And I can't, and I can't bring it to this House and not say that sometimes, we either point our finger at the wrong points, or we're not going to push those points hard enough to get through. And in the end, I'm gonna mention money laundering. You are well aware that a year and a half ago in this House, I drew attention to a few dozen new banks that were exclusively formed in this country for money laundering. I've told examples. I think it's a little bit done, that it's the same one... that's going to dissipate us honest and real investors both inside and out that they're going to rob our country and this people and that it's going to lead us to a very difficult situation. I had a chance to talk the other day, and I apologize only for one more sentence, Mr. Chairman, that I say something to Mr. Džonson in OHR, to tell him that this and the organized isn't immune or CAPAO. I also told him details. I wouldn't bring them out here because he knows them. Which means that, Mr. Minister, you and your service under number one, and white and all the rest of us should accept this as a good intention to make these points that are erupting, to match them and to do something about them, if we're going to have the right... because this is all made in a certain way just by booming and reflecting on the security in this country that is still better than it is for a while, but it's not yet, but it's still far from good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18650	Thank you. Next, Mr. Beriz Belkić answered. Let Mr Miloš Jovanović prepare himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18651	The Party for BiH MPs' club appreciates that some progress has been made when it comes to information of this kind on current practice, and we think that this information has made considerable progress compared to the previous one. When I say this, we mean understanding the definition of security, that is, what are factors, what are its constituents, and what this information you see is also processing this economic stability as a very important factor of overall security in one country. So we will generally support this information and say that there is no reason not to realize that there is progress, and that we have received. 66 But here are a few remarks to say so and suggestions. In this introductory section where the processing and listing of the factors that create the state of security are mentioned these things that should be mentioned, however unfortunately no human rights are mentioned. So human rights, human rights violations. We appreciate that it is one of the very important factors that affect or do not affect stability in the country, especially if it is kept in mind that we have had a number of reports of the Ombudsman, monitoring etc. that human rights are drastically violated in different areas in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so this must be taken as a factor that has a very important impact on the overall state of security. Furthermore, we also think that the failure to arrest war criminals mentioned in three of all sentences is a very important factor affecting the human condition of security that should have been explained a little bit more widely, because when you compare how people and property are returned, which also has an impact on human security processed, you will see that you have processed almost one small report from the Ministry of Displaced Persons and Refugees in this information, and about the war crimes of only three sentences. I must also make a little comment on this summary, that is, this finding where you say that the security situation in BiH in 2004 is satisfactory, except in the areas of security of people and property. That's a little contradictory, because if you say it's satisfactory, and you say it's not good at basic elements like the security of people and property, then we'll find it difficult to accept that it's in total terms satisfactory. Next, I want to warn you of one thing that's true. The information says that the term, inter-cantonal and inter-entity crime. So inter-cantonal and inter-entity crime. So as the world talks about the regional world dimension of crime, we are about to start talking about inter-sectoral crime. This tells us the fragmentation of institutions, the fragmentation of human space, etc. So something has to be done faster and faster and this fact really mustn't be done, it's true, I know, it's true, but it has to be watched in a way that it overcomes. And finally, one suggestion, one idea, one suggestion. It would be very important for ministers, as this commission has concluded, that it would be good for the DGS to see from the point of view of staffing, etc. It would be very good to do one analysis, a picture of the capacity and competence of the institutions, whose duty is to provide us with a good security situation. So this information is not to say the critical analysis of these institutions from the point of view of their capacity of competence for people and conditions in which they work, etc. etc. all that makes the elements of one of the institutions when you judge whether it is equal to the task we have set before it. And, of course, it should be pointed out in every information and your assessment of which we are in the phase of that depoliticalization that we are very much talking about, these institutions that really without that factor won't be able to, so to speak, act professionally and efficiently. 67 And finally there's once again that we appreciate that this information can be accepted, that there are some progresses, but here are some suggestions that we think might come in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18652	Thank you very much. Mr Miloš Jovanović picked up the phone. Have Mr. Selim Bešlagić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18653	Here's a shorter one, and what I think is, what you would like to extract from this information and perhaps all of us should be worried about is the first number of deportees from third countries in Bosnia and Herzegovina, you saw that this information shows that nearly 2,200 people in this year have been deported from third countries because of the illegal crossing of the border. And I'm afraid that might not be one of the main reasons for me to say Bosnia and Herzegovina has no privileges, or it can't get privileges for the visa regime. Also when it comes to acts of terrorism, this information says that around 380 people, 380 people, have been checked for co-operation with international terrorist organisations. I'd take the chance to ask the minister, so does it mean that of those 380 people who checked, there's someone real who's to say this, so if you're a suspect that much, is there anyone who's been working with international terrorist organizations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18654	Okay. Next, Mr. Selim Bešlagić came forward. Let Mr. Elmir Jahić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18655	I'm going to be very brief, and this is exactly the last question Mr. Miloš has discussed, which means crime and crimes of terrorism. It seems to me that here in the next phase, internal and international terrorism should be separated to get the answers to these questions that we have asked. If 380 people were involved in terrorism, we have no answer as to how much of those 380 people participated objectively, or rather cooperated with...so that should be separated. We'd have a clearer picture of these things, because about us when we want to cause some kind of reaction then we immediately say terrorists are there, so the alkaid, well this one, and then for those reasons we simply think that we should explain it. And one thing that isn't here, which is very important, is juvenile delinquency, because in the conclusions you said should work on opening a juvenile delinquency facility. I claim that today, in this part of security, 68 delinquency is an actual potential danger to Bosnia and Herzegovina, because precisely because of the lack of these objects, we have cases that juvenile delinquency is tolerated only by going to the judge for violations and because of the lack of these institutions, these children are released and after 24 hours they are in the work. I therefore believe that there was one proposal, one initiative that institutions for juvenile delinquency in Stoc, seems to me, which is capable, which is trained to try to activate precisely to address these issues that would mean a lot to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18656	Thank you very much. Next up is Mr. Elmir Jahić. Have Mr. Sead Avdić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18657	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So when we take into account this information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina last year and when we have the opportunity to monitor statistics in certain areas of the crime rate, we can say that we should be satisfied with this one progress that is recorded in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So every day, somewhere more, somewhere less than the area to the area and depending on the type of crime, there's a downturn in crime. The increasing number of detections of these crime crimes. What is our main problem is the institutions that are responsible for fighting crime are those who want to deal with criminals and crime as soon as possible, who advocate police reform. Unfortunately, police reform has now stopped. Not to speak to other institutions as well as intelligence, which is in fact still in the field. I don't know SIP, etc. All of this affects one, I would say, more intensively, the work of all the services in charge of the fight against crime. I would agree with my colleagues who have made some specific aspects of this report particularly potentiate, have made some concrete proposals, and I would therefore not report, or information as it is, it paints the situation. Maybe somewhere better, a little more potent, a little less, some things more specific. I mean, I'm gonna base myself on three four things that I think are pure politics in this report. So pure politics that have nothing to do with crime, etc. For example. At the beginning, the problem in the environment is primarily related to the issue of Kosovo and Metohija status, which, according to some estimates of international analysts, could be unfavourable to the security situation in BiH, the advocate of the referendum, the rise of national tensions, etc. So this is what put the one who has it in his heart. This has nothing to do with the safety information. It doesn't matter. Politics clean. 69 Second thing. It's like this. During this reporting period, the appearance of graphics and the distribution of fliers indicates the possibility of activity, the possibility of activities, individual persons from organisations and associations in BiH presented in the public as being protected by national interests of individual peoples and peoples. I don't know who's using this term of nationality anymore. For example. organization of active Islamic youth and Muslim, some Muslim brotherhood. Here are national interests, and here are religious organizations. So I don't know any possibilities for individual person activity, etc. And this alkaida. Come on, don't really put it on anymore. This if there is someone connected in Bosnia and Herzegovina with any terrorist organization such an alkaid name and a last name and see what needs to be done. Apparently, those of you who keep wanting to raise some tensions here, try to see if there's an internal enemy in there all the time, they're always making up this link to the alkaida. If so, what Mr. Miloš Jovanović was saying. I don't know who has the connection. Name and last name, connected to it, and let's see what he's done and sanction it. Not this political. I don't know on the international agenda there are interesting links between organised crime and terrorism resulting in their new forms of appearance such as non-narcot terrorism, the threats of tourist organisations... alkaidas to the European countries engaged in Iraq that have been taken very seriously, and the connection, so this, well, something, nothing at all. Uh, name and last name who's, uh, connected, if there is, if there isn't. No more. So personally, the Party Club won't support this report because of this politics, this Kosovo, this alkaida, etc. So if there's evidence point. This is especially about Kosovo. So it's very maliciously done to some foreign analysts that I think this is. Now he puts it in a report by the state institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So we're not ready to support this report unless this is removed.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18658	Okay. Thank you. Mr. Sead Avdić. Let Mrs. Jelina Đurković prepare herself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18659	My koleginica and colleagues, the Honorable Presidency and guests of the Council of Ministers, namely, I have some minor remarks, as well as my predecessors. The information is good from the aspect of what is written, not from the aspect of position or government, but really written, has a feeling with one sincere desire to get an objective assessment of the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And for that, thank you very much. These remarks that have been made before me and any good, Mr. Minister, if possible in the fus note, if it is claimed that something is set up by which it is claimed. So everything else is an empty story and can be abused and interpreted in various ways. So, for example, a global strategy in the fight against terrorism in the world has a direct impact on security in BiH, particularly because of the fact that some 70 international entities in BiH are present in parts of the alkaida. I don't know which international legal entity found that there are alkaidas here. It feels like there are some people in the ministry who have a favorite theme so they keep saying it on TV, without covering, etc. which means I ask you, if there are alkaide in Bosnia and Herzegovina the choice by which it is claimed. It means source. In the fus note, it would be correctly simple and in some way to break any doubts or manipulation over these issues. So that's part of one of the suggestions right at the beginning, and what might be good to point out especially here you've led to besides economic crime etc. and abuse of positions and powers, i.e. in particular taxes and customs evasion. That is one of the biggest, I would say the causes of budget cuts and Bosnia and Herzegovina and entity budgets and canton and municipalities budgets. In this context, it would not be a waste, perhaps, this technology of these tax and customs evasions a little more detailed to explain that people simply recognize what it is, so what more common man to simply fight easier and more effectively. And in the end, I've already told this list of conclusions once, i.e. the adjudicated measures and activities is objectively disputable. It would be good, this material provides an abundance of possibilities and evidence that this list of measures can be reconstructed, so let's say the measure - 1. I have pointed out this once before to reconstruct that it is required by the interstate Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro to consider and sign an agreement on borders. The border line's in sync, the commission's done their part of the job. It is simple before the interstate councils to simply try to sign the agreement, without some special condition on one side or the other. This also applies to Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia where the procedure is under way. It says under the 3rd bring in the social care programme, an increasing number of socially endangered people. We have some measures tomorrow, right, social policy, but we also have a strategy to fight poverty. That wouldn't be a bad point. Then the same thing under 4. bring a strategy in the fight against all kinds of corruption. An existing anti-corruption strategy that we already have needs to be innovated, two years ago it was adopted, etc. and it's still up-to-date, and there's certainly a lot to be used in that context. I suggest that this information be meant to reconstruct this proposal of measures and activities, to provide information, I also propose to the parliaments of the entities and the Brcko District and the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Prosecutor's Office, if it has not been delivered to them by chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18660	Thank you very much. Mrs Jelina Đurković and Mr Adem Huskić. No more reports. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18661	I have something to do with this return and refugee security issue to Mr. Secretary. As for the safety of the return. I was recently in two or three villages in the Maglain municipality where Srbin are returnees and I think that Jablanica, Krsno polje, Bocinje and we spoke with parliamentarians. We spoke with local community executives and the head of the Maglai municipality. For example, in the Crossfield, the return is 50% of refugees, but in Jablanica there is much less and there is a minimum in the bottle. Why is that? People complained on the spot that they didn't actually have enough support for local organs when something happened that let's say the provocation was, then they don't respond in time to the police. Let's say a man planted a chocolate line today, and overnight someone visits it. No, he reported it, but there's no police response. So he comes here in vain to complain to anyone. Next, let's say those shepherds from Vlašić come to the estates, destroy the plantations that exist in the field, and simply nothing. So that's one of the reasons, and how to react if you report it again slowly reacts. By two years ago, in the bottle, they knew, where people call them mujahedins. I don't know if it's them, if it's mujahidin, but that's what they call them. Up until two years ago, they were throwing them those Christmas ovens in Bosnia, 'cause that's what bothers them. Now they don't do it anymore, but there's still fear of it, because there's no telling how many, whether there's 50 or 70 people there. There's a lot more of them over the weekend, and where they come from, nobody knows, and we asked Mr. Chief, he says we don't know how many there are. We're out of control. And that's our problem, but it's good while they're still, but you never know when an incident will happen again. And that's why I'm asking, I wish it never happened, of course. And so I ask the gentleman, actually the minister, if you know anything more about it and how, because people say the smallest return to the bottle is precisely for security reasons. And do you have more information than I got in the field, and do you have any suggestions on how to strengthen that safety component, increase it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18662	Okay. Mr. Adem Huskić. So we'll give the word to the Minister. Let Mr. Vinko Zorić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18663	I thank Mr. Chairman, colleagues, Mr. Minister, I'll be very brief, or I'll at least try to be, since I'm a member of the committee, so I may have less right to talk here about this subject, but I think what's being said by the debaters who spoke before me is about what's most important. I'd just like to say, in addition to the positive one, the praise that this report is significantly better than the previous report, I'd like to say what I think is missing, but 72 I think the main thing that is missing in this information report, that's the difference some of it is missing to see who are or who is, or what are the main security problems of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's a dozen problems listed here that are classified by some groups, and that stands, but what's the biggest security problem, you can't see it. And I think that, therefore, this lack should be in the next report that could be, or probably will be in six months in 2005, so it should be seen which one is in charge or which one is, better say what the main security challenges are and how they can be overcome. Now you don't know what the biggest problem is. And maybe it wouldn't be bad if the next time information is made not to have information, but a report, because now we're going to get information. It's still, as I'd say, leaving a little more commodity to the ministry to write there because it's not being adopted. If there was a report, then there'd be adoption, so I think they'd get rid of some kind. I think we'd like to address some of the shortcomings that have already been mentioned here. And I also think that we should make a list of laws that are missing and a list of laws that should be amended and what are these changes. I, uh, maybe a month and a half ago, or two, had one initiative here to pass two laws. Unfortunately, Dom didn't adopt them. These are laws that concern this particular area. It's the law on these security companies, on small arms. I think we could use the law on acting in sports, because there's a lot of things that look so ugly, and they have a negative impact on the security situation, and we're giving that law, and then some others are using it, etc. etc. So to finish the story, my basic point is that there should be a number of major problems missing and that this should be corrected in the next report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18664	Thank you. And, uh, we still have Mr. Vinko Zorić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18665	I, on behalf of the HDZ Club, can say that this information is very well done. We can talk about information from various aspects, but we should tell or we should talk about whether there's something wrong here. The Minister of Security or whoever drew up this report can't put something together if, I don't know, the county or entity ministries haven't delivered it to him. We know the Ministry of Security has a judge. Also, perhaps more should have been discussed on the proposal for measures, how to improve things in BiH. It all comes down to the story of politics. It bothers someone if terrorism is mentioned, someone is bothered by the mention of war crimes, and we know that in BiH I would say, little security or much less than there should be security in all of these categories that are listed here. I think it's because BiH is badly decorated from the inside, and someone else thinks it's because of something else. I think, as long as they step up this, I don't know, cantonal and federal ministry, who's going to do something there, or whatever one minister is, belongs to one nation, trying to place his people, and the other one's trying to attack, because there's at least something 73 doing, that there's crime, that there is, and then charge often whoever's not guilty of anything, etc. that there will be no happiness until the cards are properly mixed and the stakes are properly shared. This is whether, this information is acceptable, well done, a proposal for measures and activities, and I think that all institutions in charge of security should work better and better and some discussions here that have been heard today, without any intention of criticising my colleagues, however, any debate is good, are still for cantonal assemblies or entity parliaments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18666	Thank you. Thank you fellow MPs. The security minister probably feels the need to say a few sentences, so Mr. Čolak, the BiH security minister, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18667	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dearly trusted, I'll take it very briefly. Well, I really agree with you, I'd say, for the most part of your grades you've given here. I'm glad you recognized in this information one quality, one progress compared to what you last had as information to ours. I hope the one we're already working on and we're working on in six months this year, it's going to be even more quality. For me and the employees at the Ministry, the goal is to work harder day by day, to get better information, so that we can present them to you. We simply act as a ministry, we work within the law that we have. And, exactly as defined in Article 14. The Ministry Act, knowing that we are not able to do this alone, but to get information from entity ministries, county ministries, from law enforcement agencies at the state level, and aware that even this information is not perfect and that it can be much better, but I would really like to convince all those who think that anything here has been done with some kind of evil intention. It really isn't. Are they, in the best way, presented here? But I think what's most important is that nothing is misspelled. Whether something should have been better explained, whether something should have been more explicit, whether some things should have been better processed and I agree, if some things that might have just been touched or accentuated were meant to be said, much better explained, I can accept that. And, indeed, here again I want to say, that the goal was to really be realistic about the situation. No, that we are doing it now with some position of government, but indeed point to all the problems that we have in BiH, of course there are all your remarks, all your suggestions, all the things you have warned about, and that it will come in handy and how it will benefit us in making this, the current information I say, which we are doing in six months. Of course I'd like to ask some of these here about the tree and the extra checks, so I can answer certain questions precisely. I just don't want to give you answers that really won't be supported by concrete evidence. So I'm not going to engage more in any 74 specific question, of course, so that I can take a commitment and check certain things and answer you either orally or in writing, in writing. What I really think, here you have pointed out, what needs to be assessed is that in this period that we have worked out, compared to the time we wrote or observed this information, which is a year or two earlier, you can see that in some segments there has been a certain increase and that really concerns. These are acts relating to the property security of citizens. You have rightly warned about it, and here I am now looking at this and actually when we analyse what we are as concrete conclusions and concrete measures at the end, after this summary we have proposed, I think that there is room and space too, to see whether the criminal policy that is being conducted in BiH is adequate, especially when it comes to certain criminal acts which, in particular, mean crimes against property, theft, heavy theft, robbery, theft, alienation, theft means cars, banks, savings, etc. Although we're doing it here in the text section, I think we've worked it out pretty well, and there's also a table view, so you could, uh, you could just compare this to how it is now, as it was a year ago. However, beware, one is a criminal policy, one is the proceedings being conducted before the court, and I have simply limited myself, i.e. we in the ministry that did this information, we had to simply limit ourselves to what we could write. Not at all, therefore, without contesting your claims that there is and and how space to act in both the judiciary and the prosecution. I would, of course, intend to make some serious remarks at the expense of the judiciary and at the expense of the prosecution, but in any case, there is room in a legitimate sense, in terms of tightening the criminal policy and also in terms of the application of the law itself. I would like to thank you all for pointing to a particular problem that may mean even better arranged, even better shown, but all with one intention, means that we are better at security in BiH than we were. I am convinced that if we reform BiH's police structures, at least this year, that we will have some results in the coming year. Many of the problems in this information have been indicated. Pointed out in a way that is really a problem in BiH. We have seen in this information, perhaps for the first time in such a way that we have processed the security status through the protection of international borders, internal border crossings and traffic at border crossings, then through crime, processed through certain crimes that are here, which characterize the state of security in each country, then through cooperation with The Hague tribunal and all that seems and what should be done in terms of demining space, mined space in BiH, if and the results we have in the realization of the CIPS project, strived to mean in one of this kind of understanding and I would say acceptable way to present in this information. I thank you all for making your suggestions, your suggestions, we'll certainly have our eyesight. So, here's another time I'm asking the MPs to accept this information. Thank you very much. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18668	I thank the minister. So I'm closing the debate. So, respected colleagues and colleagues, we've actually had some two kinds of suggestions here whether. The debate moved from the information being supported, to that debate and the statement that the information would not be supported with certain arguments. Well, there was this whole club behind it and later some MPs stood behind it, so I'm saying what it was was whether. So we have here two possible types of conclusions. I'll put on a plea. So the first one is the one that practically supports information. We take note of the information, therefore, and the first conclusion, we will vote on both one and the other, is that the information is being received to the knowledge, and the second conclusion is to return the information to the Proposer to be completed in terms of these remarks, which were raised by MPs who had certain objections and re-delivered to Parliament for adoption. Well, vote how you feel you should vote. We must, we must vote and receive knowledge because it is support, therefore, information with the Commission's conclusion and, of course, this second proposal. I will, of course, put this first proposal to a vote. Who's to adopt the conclusion that this information is to be taken into account, to know the conclusion of the committee in charge. So vote on that conclusion. Vote now. 24 for, 8 against, 4 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. Therefore, this conclusion has been accepted that information is being taken into account, with the Commission's conclusion, so that this second proposal for a conclusion practically does not make sense to put it to the vote. This way we're done and, of course, we're going to deliver a stenogram to the Ministry of Security, this way we've finished the sixth item of the agenda. We're moving to the seventh item of the agenda. That's Ad.7. The SDP MPs' initiative to set up a Committee or Commission for the adoption of the text of the Bosnia and Herzegovina State Anthem, the SDP MPs' Club, delivered the initiative on 14 February 2005. The initiative was discussed by the Constitutional and Legal Commission whose report you received. As you saw, the commission did not support an initiative to form a committee to adopt the text of Bosnia and Herzegovina's state anthem. The truth commission didn't even explain this position, but it is in the House that now we have finally committed ourselves to this initiative, and we 76 should, of course, vote today, given that conclusion we have actually made about the report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, as we have done so far. If the Constitutional and Legal Commission report were to be supported here, then this initiative would definitely fail, if the Constitutional and Legal Commission report were not supported, then it would return to the Constitutional and Legal Commission that the Constitutional and Legal Commission once again consider the issue. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Selim Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18669	...to discuss, but I want to say that Mr. Jozo Križanović submitted a proposal in 9.4.2003 to form an anthem text committee, that after which he has not received an answer for two years now and that he has repeated it again, what you said in February of the month. I think it's clear to all of us that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina do not support the anthem, only music, but they are asking that it can be sung, not just mumbled. For these reasons, a commission proposal has been tabled here, and the reason why the commission did not propose is two for, two against and one abstention. We do not believe that the Commission's report should be adopted and that this, as you said, should be returned to the commission again, that in one relaxing atmosphere the proposal should be restored and that we should come to the conclusion that we are going with the formation of an anthem commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18670	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman is the next speaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18671	Thank you very much. So I answered as an MP. I thought that in the capacity of the chairman, or as rapporteur of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, there was no need to say anything in particular because this report made it clear that it was actually the result of the vote that the initiative was not accepted and therefore we, or I didn't think that there was any broader explanation needed to be given. Why? If there were a certain majority who rejected this initiative, then of course we would be obliged to give and wider, wider, wider reasoning. In this regard, I, as chairman of the committee, have nothing to add. I have actually volunteered as a member of this Parliament to still show my dissension with this outcome of the debate on this subject and on the Constitutional Commission, whose member I am to actually say that I would still be willing to support this initiative and show the need to open this issue procedurally and in another way to come to the text of the national anthem, when we already have an instrumental dish as the section says it. 77 As far as I'm concerned, as a member of this House, I am prepared for one more thing, which is perhaps, by someone's taste, even the existing text of the anthem is not the best solution. Why not? It can be better and some new text of an anthem. I am also willing to think in this direction that, I don't know if the colleagues who proposed this, although such ideas were also on the constitutional committee itself, or at the debate, this one might not call a competition for a brand-new anthem and an inclusive and instrumental musical part and a text part. So these are all possibilities that are being opened. I think, in any case, it's not good that we don't have an anthem text. There and there must be a common denominator in this country for all of us who could prove themselves through the text of the anthem. To be honest, I was a member of Parliament, and at a time when this anthem was actually proposed in three versions, the music part of the anthem was proposed, and finally the one that is now valid, the current part of the anthem was chosen. It is indeed the best, the best sounds of those three who have been proposed in their own time through a public competition, etc. But I'm saying to be honest, she got into her ear and I even made some statements. This text looks like when a little bit of a habit, or not a text, but this musical part becomes a receptive part. Therefore, why now on the musical part that has entered the ears of the citizens of this country, and may be a common denominator in this sphere, why not add some, or at least not give someone a chance to offer a text that will simply then, along with this musical part, be one whole. To conclude, personally as a member of the Constitutional Commission, I am not satisfied with this attitude, and I don't think the report should be accepted. However, why not, Parliament should express its need to complete this, because we have not done specific research, but as far as I know, very few countries, although it seems there are such, but why should we at least be an exception in such situations, which do not have a texting part of the anthem, if any. I therefore propose that the Commission's report is not accepted, however, to open the possibility of a public competition and to see what the citizens of this country can offer, competent people can also offer through the text when it comes to this symbol of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18672	Thank you, Mr. Ćeman. Mr. Momčilo Novaković asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18673	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I must remind you that we have come to this music the way we have come, and that is by imposing by the High Representative and later by verifying the House. I really don't understand, here we have had more times today, opening up some issues that may be related to some relations within Bosnia and Herzegovina, so it's not clear to me that someone cares that we open this issue fully aware of the relations that are now under control. So you see, I'm the proposer of this initiative and that on the Constitutional and Legal Commission there was a vote 78 2:2:2:1, I would take it out deeply aware that there are no elementary assumptions that the text of the anthem should be adopted by the will of all, that the text of the anthem should express something that at this point, I think why at this point, I don't think there's a mood. And I don't see why you really push something by force, whether it's from some political benefit to individual parties, even though we're aware in advance that there's very, very little chance, or almost no chance that now in this vase and in this kind of relationship we come to the text of an anthem, we know what the text of an anthem should reflect, reflects the interests of all. I'll support the commission's position, less burdened with whether we need an anthem with text or not. How fully aware that there are no basic assumptions that we can come up with an anthem that we'll all be satisfied with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18674	Thank you. Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18675	Thank you. It is clear that one part of the MPs will not even open a dialogue on whether this country should have an anthem text. But I don't understand that in some way others are warned not to talk about it. And I don't think that really makes sense. So I'm not sure that the promoter was also optimistic that things would go in the direction that our anthem would get the words, but I can't take away his right to do it. So it's not a replica to Mr. Novaković, it's kind of a counterdiscussion. So as far as you're standing in the position that this country shouldn't have an anthem text, so here's how I figured you might not have any music, no anthem, etc., you have to understand that there are people who want this country to have, which the rest of the normal states have, no less or less. So let's be clean to the end. There are MPs, there are people in this country who just want this country to have everything that other normal states have, that's one thing. And that no one wants to impose on anyone what he doesn't want. We're trying to convince ourselves whether we need it or not. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18676	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. Replica Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18677	It's about Mr. Belkić's incorrect quote. I purposely underlined it so that no such finding could be carried out, yet it was carried out. I just said in my last sentence that I don't mind that Bosnia and Herzegovina's anthem has text, but that there are now no assumptions that we can come up with a common text. 79 So clearly I said it. This question, and I really thought we were listening. So that's what I was saying on the board here, too. I absolutely believe that at this point, therefore, there are no relations that can lead to text that meets on one side of the requirements that otherwise the text of the hymn should have. And we know what reflects the text of the hymn. So that's the basic motive why I don't think they've matured the conditions for an initiative like this to pass.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18678	Okay. Thank you. Mr. Selim Bešlagač, the promoter. Here you are, on behalf of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18679	So I have to say that music is imposed by the High Representative's decision, or the High Representative has called a tender for music. The author who had music won was the most receptive to those who listened here. The second thing, author of the music Srbin, citizen of Serbian nationality. I didn't mention it was a Srbin. That's it. The anthem I'm listening to and I'm mumbling, I can't help it. Therefore, allow me to have the right to have a text, and who will win the contest for the text that this home should call, means that it will form a commission to compete with all people and Srbin and Hrvat and Musliman, third and fourth. So let the commission determine that and let's not prejudge things that we won't all accept. For these reasons, I think it is not a condition that Bosnia and Herzegovina's anthem has no text and I don't think we should politicise it now. Let's just open the competition. It may be open for 10 years, because the commission won't agree. And nothing to anyone. So please, I don't think there's any need to discuss it at all and I don't want to discuss it. I ask the chairman to respect our proposal and simply go with the proposal who's in, who's against and we move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18680	Okay. Let's move on. We've still got Mr. Nikola Špirić, so Mr. Bešlagić and then we'll bring the end and go to the plea. We know.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18681	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, I don't know how much it would make sense that after these discussions I'm even reporting for the word, but I think this is the time to try, trying to find a solution acceptable to everyone. If we all get up on the musical part of the anthem, if it's intonated where it's intonated, then we should try to look for something that can be expressed in words, even if it's by the concept of national parties in battle, in battle for our people. Well, everyone interprets what they want. I'm deliberately paraphrasing this, but I think that, I don't mind saying that, like the music part being done does and the text part. Whether it's going to take a year, two 80 years, five years, if it's ever going to come to that agreement, that's another thing, but that door doesn't need to be closed in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18682	Thank you. If no one answers the word anymore, I'm closing the argument. We move to a statement, so we vote on the Constitutional and Legal Commission Report, which is negative against this initiative. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 12 for the report, against the 18 reports so the commission's report didn't get support and the thing goes back to the Constitutional and Legal Commission. You must consider this there once more and therefore be determined and headed towards Parliament. Let's go to the next item of the agenda, that's the eighth point of the agenda, that's Ad.8. Proposed tobacco law, first reading, MPs Zlatko Lagumdžija, Jozo Križanović and Selim Bešlagić, the bill was submitted in the procedure on 31 January 2005. He's being considered in a regular procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 17 February. Report to the competent authority, i.e. The Constitutional and Legal Commission was delivered on 8 June 2005. The committee in charge adopted five amendments to the bill. There were no adnables in the plenary phase. I'm opening a debate on the law in my first reading. Here you go. If no one answers the word, I'll conclude. Yes, go ahead. Yes, it is about tobacco. Mr. Martin Raguž, vice president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18683	I'm sorry. But since we had a comment here today by the Secretary-General that the Council has this tomorrow at the session, I suggest we give a new deadline to the Commission that we do not declare ourselves, it is a significant law, it is a significant question, it is a significant opinion of the Council and that we respect the situation. This is my proposal concrete.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18684	Great. Of course, we're going to put that proposal on a statement anyway, just here until we finish the discussion. There are people who are discussing. 81 Mr. Selim Bešlagić as a promoter, and then Mr. Ćeman. You've opened the discussion of me. No problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18685	This morning, the deputy minister said, or Minister Doko said the objections from the Federation were such that such a law could not be passed. Well, you see, I've made an effort to get the opinion of the Federation Minister for Agriculture and believe that this is about the next one. It's not sniffing, it's sniffing, it's not wet tobacco, it's dried tobacco. It's not like this, he says by May 31st, so he writes here by the end of May, the fourth, they propose until March 31st, so two months ago. I'm talking about technical things that absolutely have nothing to do with the essential things of the law. Or, for example, says tobacco and tobacco products, that is, tobacco and tobacco products, here only said tobacco and tobacco products. It's about things that absolutely don't have any... However, since I believe that this and probably the Council of Ministers will pass, because it seems to me that this is a good thing, I would not want to say that we are coming back, but simply wait, wait for the Council of Ministers' decision, and then, on that basis, wait for this commission to blow, but not to sniff, etc. etc. Here, I suggest we don't open a debate in that sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18686	I think you're talking about the same thing. It's possible, I'll compose it, I'll do this one. Mr. Ćeman Mirsad. Here you go. Have Mrs. Majkić prepare.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18687	On behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, there are a lot of members here, we were really trying to get a position of the Council of Ministers, the competent ministry, before deciding on the Commission itself, etc. So it's simply correct to say here that we didn't solve it so quickly and that we made sure that the government, that the Council of Ministers, that someone both entity and other bodies, who should have all this in mind, to give their suggestions. We didn't have a public debate, but there was an opportunity, so just now at this point slow it down it can be understood one way or the other. But I don't make it as a proposal on behalf of the Commission, but I see that the mood is like that, then perhaps only procedurally would make sense, you will naturally blame it in the Rules of Procedure, delay the plea and give an opportunity perhaps 82
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18688	Of course, don't worry, Mr. Ćeman. Nothing, thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18689	Niko one disputed the good intentions of the SDP colleagues to make this matter legal, but in communicating with people, or companies directly affected, at least when it comes to the Republic of Serbia, a large number of objections were made, among other things, to objections which are of the status of nature. So let's say that a fairly simplified division, i.e. the classification of cigarettes to soft and hard packaging, is quite problematic because we know that all high-quality cigarettes are not packed hard packing, as it means that all bad cigarettes are not in a soft pack either. It's one of the problems, the part that applies to the quality of tobacco is also very badly done in this law and I think there's a lot of empty walking and a lot of things that aren't well regulated enough, so I think this proposal by Mr. Raguž would be that we should wait for a proposal from the Council of Ministers and then speak on that subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18690	Thank you very much. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, I see he asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18691	I have to say that if someone told me that they were going to defend the law of the SPD, it would be hard to believe. But here's the thing, so it's not a questionable position, namely I'm going to support this one around, but it seems to me the same attitude, that the Council of Ministers should be given some time to make a statement about this. But I have to say that we have repeatedly asked the Council of Ministers as a commission and that we have not received one, we have had a rather irresponsible relationship with the Council of Ministers under this law and that is what we should say here. I must say that we also have an irresponsible relationship with the MPs under this law, because now that the procedure has been completed they suddenly appear in some remarks that have never been in the procedure. So there were several amendments in the procedure that I put in place. They were all accepted, and so the Commission came up with a kind of unanimous stance on this law. So I will support but we need this proposal to wait for a member of the Council of Ministers, but right now we need to know one thing that means extending the practically commission phase.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18692	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18693	So this means giving new amendments in line with the views of the Council of Ministers and today we need to do so and that 83
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18694	Absolutely, absolutely. Okay. Who wants to talk more? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. So like this, I think we used the attitude here, I think we should apply Article 95(3). Rules of Procedure. This law should be returned to the commission stage for the Komsiija to draw up a new report within 15 days, which will include, of course, the law, or the Council of Ministers, or through its proposal for a law, or through a statement at your request to declare and, of course, the right to amendments. Here's the suggestion of a conclusion. Prepare to vote. We are voting on this proposal. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as far as I see unanimously with 32 votes in favour, without opposition or abstention, has adopted this conclusion with a sufficient entity majority. That's how we ended the eighth point of the agenda. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda, that's Ad.9. The proposal for a law on the holidays of Bosnia and Herzegovina with a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission was proposed by MPs Zlatko Lagumdžija, Jozo Križanović and Selim Bešlagić, who received the proposal on February 25th 2005. The opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee was delivered on 17 March. The College has appointed a Constitutional and Legal Commission for the competent commission. The competent commission opened a public hearing on the bill and a public hearing was held on 11 May 2005. On June 8th, we received a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission as responsible for considering this law. You saw the committee in charge, so the Constitutional and Legal Commission did not accept the principles of the proposal for a law on the holidays of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so it did not uphold the law. Same situation as the hymn text. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Bešlagić. Here you go. Bešlagić Selim.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18695	I just want to get to know Parliament that there was a general debate and that it was in one broad working atmosphere with one maximum tolerance almost led to the fact that I would say a dilemma so that we suggest that this material be returned to the Commission and that it proceeds with further discussion in order to reach the Law on the National Holidays of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is one of the important laws that could also ensure Bosnia and Herzegovina's statehood as something that this law also has in its application. 84 For these reasons, I would ask that if there is a debate, let it be said, but if not simply here we are voting for a proposal from the Commission, or against the proposal of the neighbours, and simply return this material to consideration.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18696	Thank you very much. The procedure is clear. Here is the same procedure as with the previous question in the text of the anthem. So here you go, Mr. Ćeman. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18697	So let me just say as a rapporteur with the Constitutional and Legal Commission, that's what's said, but let me underline. So due to the result of the vote, yes and here to mention, since the report is practically negative about this proposal, we have not given an explanation, because the result of the vote is actually that, not the majority decision, because I know that there is that conclusion that when a negative report of the commission must be an explanation. So there is no reason because this is a product of interpretation of the Rules of Procedure and the result of the vote, not the majority commission's decision on this or that of the number of votes in the vote. So obviously, as you said here, this is about the same situation as before, and it simply needs to be applied to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18698	Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18699	I'd just ask the chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Commission what does that mean that this is the result of the vote? Every commission's position is the result of a vote. I beg you, what does that mean that the position of the vote is? So is that legal or not legal? Does that mean that in some other vote it can be put in place? That I don't open those dilemmas. I know what the chairman of the committee meant to say. So was the result of the vote, or wasn't there a small difference between this and the one from before? Here is not a law in principle, so the principles of the law are not accepted. So we didn't even get into the amendment phase. So we didn't come, we didn't discuss the details of the law, but at the outset, it was on the very principles that the commission said the chairman decided not to accept these principles. It is clear to me that the same vote remains on the report, etc., but I note, therefore, that it is about principles, not adopting the principles on which it rests. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18700	Okay. Thank you. Mr. Ćeman has a need to say something. After that, Mr.... you have the word Mr. Avdić, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18701	I haven't been clear enough as well as Mr. Novaković. I was just about to say that, namely, I feel like the chairman of the commission that when the Commission's position is negative and there is a clear majority against some bill and against the principle of explaining it. I have assessed as chairman of the commission that in this state of affairs when voting 3 is against, and when it comes to the fact that such a relationship in the vote has not accepted principles there is no need for me to explain now, because the reasoning of the position would mean actually making an argument between one and the other participants in the debate for or against some proposals. I simply felt then that we had no need to explain why principles were not accepted, but I realized it. And that's the only reason I answered my word, and that's why I've potentiated this by voting, and it turns out that no principles have been accepted. Otherwise, if Parliament insists and that is the point of my exposure to now write why, which were the reasons for against, the arguments of one, the other, the third, the fifth party. We'll do it, both for and against, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18702	Okay. Thank you very much. Mr. Martin Raguž, vice president. Have Mr. Sead Avdić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18703	...the chairman, regardless of any opinion of the commission, there should be an explanation. In fact, it can be read here that the Constitutional and Legal Commission is against the law. As a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, I am not against the Law on the holidays of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I am here to reach a quality law. And that is why it is necessary to explain, Mr. Ćeman, with all due respect for what you're saying so as not to create false interpretations or politicization of an important law. Because I represent as much as you do a significant part of the voters who want this issue to be regulated legally in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but in a way that is generally accepted in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I think that argument should be contained. And I don't think we can get into practice that if the report is negative, there's no explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18704	Mr. Sead Avdić. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18705	Just for a little while. I think most citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina support the adoption of this law. And this law, without doubting simply needs to be really adopted at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which means that principles, I do not know how principles can be rejected and whether it is particularly necessary to explain why the commission has conditionally rejected the principles. But me, given the results of the vote, 6 people were 3 to 3, they were simply divided opinions, and in this context, the commission was certain that it should have sought some new additional arguments and delayed the commission's statement by 7 days or 10 days and thus try to reach that internal consensus. So I suggest we reject this commission's position and return to the commission of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18706	Thank you very much. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. We're voting on the commission's report. Same situation as the wording of the national anthem. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So 14 is for the commission's report, 17 is against the commission's report. The commission's report didn't get any support. The law goes back to the commission. Please sit down again, discuss and inform the House of your decision. It's the usual time limit as usual here.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18707	The usual time is 15.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18708	The usual deadline is 15 days. Here you go. Here you go, Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18709	I have an objection to the vote, namely, the club doesn't register the voice of an MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18710	Okay. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18711	So it's not a registered vote, and I'm asking us to repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18712	Okay. All right. Azra, you wanted something. If we finish the vote, then we're done. Do you have anything before that? On the occasion of the meal. All right. We repeat the vote on this point. Prepare to vote. Please. Take care now. At the request of the SDS Club, we repeat the vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Please, 17 for, 17 against, 1 abstention. The report didn't receive support and goes back to the commission with the same conclusion. On the occasion of this agenda, Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović asked for something to say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18713	I thank the chairman. I, or the last three points of the agenda, very short on one suggestion. It was a little illogical to me that as a resolution committee, the competent commission here's colleague Ćeman's three stood up three times at the last three points of the agenda. It kind of makes sense to me when it comes to the anthem, when it comes to holidays, but it doesn't make any sense to me when it comes to the tobacco law. That the Committee of Resorbs is a ustavno-pravni and Legal Commission, in addition to the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, or, for example, the Commission for Finance and Budgets, since it is a high-tariff commodity. Since it's one law we're likely to be discussing, and it's the foreign trade ministry's jurisdiction, I'm asking the College to appoint one of these two as the competent commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18714	Okay. Thank you. He'll take care of it. Thank you for this. We're moving to the 10th point of the agenda, that's it. Please, let's go to the 10th point of the agenda, that's 88 Ad.10. The motion for a resolution on genocide in Srebrenica and Bosnia and Herzegovina, MP Muhamed Moranjkić, the rezolucija arrived in parliament yesterday, has already been discussed. Proposer Moranjkić. Here you go. If you like, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18715	...gives an explanation when the debate was being held. The only thing left for me is to vote on the resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18716	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Prepare to plead. We vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr. Moranjkić on Srebrenica, on genocide in Srebrenica and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 20 for, 12 against, 2 abstentions. 20 Federations, 0 Republika Srpska. So the resolution has parliamentary support, but has no support from Republika Srpska's entity. There's no consent. Yeah. Okay. So, the College didn't achieve consent. We're going to the second round of voting. So there is no majority of Republika Srpska entities, those who are against Republika Srpska vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 12 against Republika Srpska, it is more than 2/3 of MPs and I find that Mr Muhamed Moranjkić's resolution on genocide in Srebrenica and Bosnia and Herzegovina has not been adopted. Moving to the 11th point of the agenda, that's Ad.11. The motion for a resolution on Srebrenica is proposed by MP Elmir Jahić I am opening the debate. I'm closing the debate. Please. Mr. Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18717	The chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, it was very little time for these resolutions to be looked at, to be leveled and to simply try to find 89 something that might look like a common position and therefore I said that this was a very difficult matter and that, by any chance, it was possible to find a common position in such a short time. Unfortunately, such tragedies and crimes would never happen. But in this resolution by Mr Elmir Jahić, so I ask for the understanding of all of us today if we are willing to send any common message in the form of a resolution, so I ask for understanding. The creator of this resolution is the SDA Club, and I've also tried here in this break, without consulting and with my club, without consulting other clubs to find something that might look like a Srebrenica resolution. So I ask you that the hard words, the words that probably time will confirm or deny we try to get to the resolution to avoid in this situation, not to avoid finding out the truth, so it's not my intention, this is a discussion of what there was talk about that there was no guessing, there's no bidding with the truth, etc. I think that there are a lot of things being said about Srebrenica, I think that both the Government and the Parliament of Republika Srpska, and the Srebrenica Commission has also made clear views and in the sense that we can bring the tree closer or come to something, I'm going to say what I think would be good to throw out of this resolution, so that it might be acceptable that we don't send perhaps the 10th anniversary of Srebrenica the ugliest message, or an ugly message. Let's say that this, that part of the first attitude to start from the second word in the third sentence, is to say – the most severe form of World War II war in Europe happened in Srebrenica. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives condemns this criminal act and requires strict punishment for those responsible. Let's not lecture. So....punishment of the responsible, no matter who shows up responsible. But here it is difficult to ask for consent to vote for it, if the responsibility of the institutions is mentioned, and it is still institutional responsibility, it is not proven. That's why I'm asking for understanding. So, punishing the responsible. And I think today we are in a position to confirm what is called the individualization of crime, not the collectiveisation of crime, or the crimes on behalf of the people as well as fellow Novaković. The second view is fully acceptable to me in this resolution where it is said – it is a shameful fact that many commanders, the perpetrators of this terrible crime... says Mladić is still at large. We insist most vigorously that representatives of domestic and international institutions in charge of arresting war criminals bring to justice the arrests of those responsible for these war crimes. I think it's a general attitude and it's acceptable. The third attitude also for me, as far as I'm concerned, so I speak for myself acceptable. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's representative home requires domestic and international institutions to immediately discover and exume all mass graves. So I think it should be a task for everyone in the state. I think it is absolutely acceptable for the exumation to be carried out that families properly bury their own, regardless of how this, even though it applies to Srebrenica, can generally refer to victims in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The fourth attitude is also acceptable to me completely. 90 I have a fifth position and I think it would be good to make a correction of the fifth position and, as I see it, it could look – given the huge human sacrifice, almost completely destroyed economic and standard objects, it creates a legal and moral commitment of the authorities of the RS and the international community of Bosnia and Herzegovina to help the citizens of Srebrenica. I wouldn't, I wouldn't prescribe the Srebrenica Act, etc. and the way it will be the subject of debate. And that would put an end to it, and for me, this could be acceptable. So that's what I'm saying in my personal name and I'm asking my colleagues if they want to get to the resolution that so I'm going to have to premise myself to make a break for the clubs to also try to see if it's possible to get any text at all. But here I tried personally as a man to think about this resolution, to think about the ambience, to think about the victims, and to get this parliament to do something that it would create, we can't force anyone, unless they create part of the obligation to have an active approach and think actively about Srebrenica. When you speak, you see that the UN tribunal has confirmed the genocide of the verdicts, etc. All this is understandable to me, but now the resolution in this House needs to throw out difficult words that will not solve anything, because we are not going to decide on this, but that very institution and international institutions will. And I would ask that we exclude from our resolution what will not help anyone and will not create a commitment. But to have an active attitude, I'm convinced. There you go. Thank you. I think this resolution, in this sense, could be arranged and as far as I'm concerned, could be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18718	Okay. Who wants to talk any further? Mr. Jahić here is asking for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18719	Well, I agree on Mr Špirić's constructive approach and I think that, in any case, I was hoping that the MPs, if they want to adopt this resolution, would try on an active approach or give their own suggestions or guidelines as this resolution should appear. To me these, these views of Mr. Špirić are quite acceptable, by the way, which might be a good thing to create a ten-minute break that if you can agree and let's see, since this first part I didn't follow.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18720	I suggest a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18721	Well, if it wasn't for much, MPs would be exhausted all day like this. 91
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18722	Never mind. So half an hour's break is no waste. Let's see if we can just try all the clubs and see if there's a possibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18723	Okay. Thank you very much. All right. Let's just see what people do, what to do next. You'll get a break. Let's just hear the discussions.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18724	I would ask, however, if representatives and other clubs could say what, so that it wouldn't be now that Malta doesn't agree to come out and then say, we won't accept it. If there's any quiet ones.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18725	Yeah. Of course. Mr. Gligorić, then Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18726	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I've been trying all along to suggest we go to a committee or some other stage. I initially criticized the promoters without anyone getting me wrong. Now so is Mr. Špirić. Sam said he didn't talk to his club, it's not this. We don't need free shooters, we need here to find people who will work, not individual affirmations of people on this important issue. And that's why I don't know about this deadline, let's see what we're gonna do, but I'm not up for that kind of work that someone's after a pay phone in five minutes about such an important thing has a solution up their sleeve. No matter if it was Mr. Špirić or Mr. Jahić. It's not that at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18727	Mr. Novaković, then Mr. Špirić will get his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18728	I'm trying to see how this thing develops now. In fact, if I understood correctly in this half-hour break Mr. Jahić would analyse Mr. Špirić's remarks and see if he could accept it or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18729	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18730	Did I get that right? 92
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18731	Yes, it is. That's what Mr. Jahić said.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18732	I don't think we can do that. In fact, we have now entered practically into the Commission's work. If we're leaving half an hour, then we're leaving half an hour of chance for everyone to see if we have any objections or no objections, and only then would the Proposer be able to make a statement about these remarks. Because this way I don't think we've moved anywhere since the beginning, regardless of Mr. Špirić's position unless we use those half-hours, because I didn't even want to go into the text of the resolution since I was in the position that the commission should have discussed it. And it's actually showing up here that we were right at the end of the day, and we're going to debate it like we're discussing it on the committee. It's just that we're doing it in front of the public right now, and it could've been easier to come up with a solution on the board than the way we're doing it right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18733	Okay. Just a little bit, please. Mr. Špirić needs an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18734	Ladies and gentlemen, I think there's a need for a half-hour break. He does not exclude attitudes and other clubs, which is what counterpart Novaković was talking about. But I want to say to my colleague Gligorić that this is not a question of free shooters, but a question of both brains and responsibilities and a demand for ambience. And I think everyone has a right, and this attitude will not depend solely on Špirić. I said I didn't consult my club either. And that's why I think a half-hour break should be used to consult each other. I'm going to publicly tell you what made me go to the meeting to get to the resolution. So the public's eyes are not at all controversial, and in the context of our debate at the clubs, I'm going to say why I think this might be acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18735	Thank you. Mr. Jahić still asked for his word, and then we'll take a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18736	I understood Mr. Špirić's proposal, so not only do I consider Mr. Špirić's proposal, but we all agree to find a solution. I think it would be really good for us to bring this resolution today, and I'm willing to make one deal to make a compromise on the resolution. Normally it doesn't compromise on the matter of truth. Yes, but here are the 5-6 months now, Mr. Novaković is being proposed to give this parliament his studio on Srebrenica. We don't do that. We're about to join the 10th anniversary of this tragedy, and I think it's about time we did it. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18737	So here's another Mr. Kunić, so I'll do it. We'll take a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18738	Namely,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18739	Mr. Kunić, look at this. Come on, Mr. Kunić. Short. They're attacking me because I need a break to determine.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18740	It's really surprising to say this proposal. When we talked this morning we said to leave it for the commission, so that the commission in one serious work, can't be in half an hour, these are too serious things here which, this termology that's being used, are very controversial. The qualifications of the individual. I think I'm surprised at this proposal very unreal. I don't know, maybe we're not, we don't have the capacity like Špirić to lock up quickly, but you should consider others and their thinking. So, I'd like to stay in the process of forming a commission that will even, tomorrow we have a session, a follow-up, and we'll vote for a resolution. But please let's read it. We met and the last time also with a press release from Mr Špirić, with Rehn's letter asking us to accept Ren's letter without reading the same day.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18741	You'll be accepted in September. Whatever.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18742	Okay. That, if you promise to accept, I won't, and you accept. You can do it for yourself, but you can't do it for me. That's what she tells you for herself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18743	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18744	I'm not finished. Please, this is too serious.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18745	Okay. Well, thank you very much, 94.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18746	...that we share to form a committee that will form a text for tomorrow and try to bring this resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18747	So here's the deal. Thank you very much. I'm taking a 30-minute break. We're continuing 20 to 6. During that time, then, the club presidents, all clubs in Parliament, let them communicate with the author of the resolution, Mr Elmir Jahić, and let them make their remarks. After that, Mr Jahić will say what is acceptable, what is not acceptable to him. We're going back to work. [[PAUZA]] The word is by Mr Elmir Jahić, who proposes this resolution. Here you go, Mr. Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18748	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, we had a consultation, so the president of the clubs, we had some remarks, suggestions, later we talked to the clubs, and I can say as a motion for a resolution, so in addition to our best wishes to really get this resolution on Srebrenica today to vote our club and I personally cannot accept that this finding, therefore, is deleted. So I suggest that, therefore, I remain in the text of this resolution, I suggest that we vote on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18749	Okay. Thank you. Mr. Špirić wants a word. Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18750	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to be brief, and I'm sorry, of course, that on the break we failed to agree on the views, I'm sorry that maybe there isn't, let's say free preparedness to come to a consistent text today. I guess we didn't do a good job, at least that's how I can appreciate it. It would be good if we could get the strength, of course the Srebrenica rating was and will be and with one resolution it will not end. I'm sorry we didSrebreničan get to that resolution today, and here we tried at the club with clubs to come to a compromise, and I think after this, there's no compromise. 95 I will also not vote for the Srebrenica resolution in this form that has been offered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18751	Mr. Gligorić. Mr. Novaković, then I'll take a word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18752	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the promoter should have found it anyway, or get strength and wisdom and accept these suggestions that we had at the time of this break. We tried that by proposing here, so to speak, the Members of the Republic of Srspka said we proposed a commission phase. Then Professor Špirić's intervention with which I disagreed in some way and method, etc., but I realized that she was well-intentioned on finding a solution to this important issue and it turned out that his intention in that case was extremely correct, we accepted it, together we tried to find a solution and I am sorry that in this case there was no approximation of these views and I share this opinion that today the resolution that was offered, some of which we have or will be many more words. We must face a harsh past to build a future. In this case, we ignored it. I think he should be responsible and the motion for a resolution if, to return to the beginning of that discussion of mine, it's not a political goal to not even vote. I think we've offered enough solutions, had the good will to come and I, in the end, regrettably have to realize that it didn't happen, that the promoter didn't mean all this in the light of what I tried to say so quickly and that our club couldn't support this text of resolution by the promoter who didn't respect the interventions that we had in the break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18753	Thank you. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18754	I'll just say one sentence. I think we were really on our way to get something that was meant for the resolution. I don't think the goal was that what the SDA club didn't agree with this resolution, because our qualification doesn't mean, in principle, in the qualification of that part of our qualification here won't matter and it won't affect it at all. The goal of the resolution is, I think it was a different nature and I think we had it. I'm afraid here's what I'm saying, because I have to say some means of not agreeing on this, we didn't actually agree on the resolution at all, because the promoter stayed with the other parts of this resolution. 96
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18755	All right. Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18756	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Refusing my resolution and trying to regulate Jahic's resolution with consent to it would be a disgrace to this parliament and I would not participate normally as a man, nor as an MP. Let those who think this is okay, so let them vote or not vote, stand or not stand behind it. It is obvious here that in this House there is no willingness to face the painful truth of Srebrenica, it is a shame, and let each one answer for his actions in front of that people and in front of the real truth, and it is not in this resolution if it is changed.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18757	Can I just take a minute?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18758	The speaker, Džaferović, called for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18759	Dear colleagues and colleagues, so we are discussing a very important issue and we are trying to give a clear view of the highest legislative authority in this country on this important issue. That is why it is very important for our attitude to be based on truth and on justice and everything called an attempt to tell truth or justice the way it happened, and it is called a compromise attempt is not really an attempt to compromise. There was genocide in Srebrenica. It was confirmed by the International Court of Justice in The Hague. And if the resolution that has been offered goes with a trail of facts that have been established by the UN tribunal, then it is incorrect to ask the motion for a resolution to reduce the importance of the resolution and to give up the term genocide. It cannot be given up voting on it, or not voting, accepted it or did not accept this home. The genocide was committed in Srebrenica, and those who were inspired, who were organizers, who were commanders and perpetrators, will be responsible for the genocide. And we will never give up, we will never give up until the last one in the chain of responsibility is responsible for it. That is why it is better to remain with this resolution proposed by the Proposer today. I guess she'll pass, and it's better not to adopt this House of Representatives, than to adopt a naroda and one that doesn't fit the real, unfortunately, real state of things. It has no right to do so here against the victims of genocide in Srebrenica. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18760	Mr. Špirić's replica. 97
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18761	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a feeling that I may be giving myself too many rights today wandering and looking for a solution in this unfortunate country. The public of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the unfortunate citizens of Srebrenica, and even down here who have crucified the tent settlement, at least need lessons as to who is ready and what is not ready in this country to accept or accept. As long as there's not a host of politicians in this country who will look into the future to make generations more comfortable we'll be in the grips and constraints and this country, I have no feeling there are people who are willing to find a solution. I regret that he finally spoke to his colleague, Šefik Džaferović, because I also tried to find a solution in the break. It was at hand, but you know the breaks in this parliament are always on the line not looking for a solution. If you think it's better for the Srebrenica people that the resolution isn't accepted, so if the Bošnjak think it, it won't be accepted, because I don't want a bad resolution for the Srebrenica. So there is no one more right than I in this House to seek good or bad resolution. But the resolution is a matter of compromise, not how anyone sees things happening from afar. I wasn't there. I'm very concerned with what I find out, just like all of you are. And that's why I don't think, unfortunately, there's still no willingness here to create an ambience, and that criminals are responding, they're being processed, and I have to tell you that, therefore, I'm concerned about this, because in this country, if up to 30,000 processes are announced from political circles, that's four family members, that's 120,000 citizens of this country. When at 3.5 million people, 120,000 to wait for a raffle in euphoria, they're going to tear down the country, let alone if they're waiting for punishment. So I think there are still no politicians responsible for this country's future in this country, and I don't want to do anything wrong, but it's good to think about this. I'm not looking forward to it, I'm sad and I'm not glad it's gonna look like it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18762	Just for a little while if I can.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18763	Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18764	Mr. Deputy Chairman, Mr. Špirić, it was really not my intention to lead the controversy with you who are the two of us who are willing to lead the country into the future, or to think about the future of this country, let the Bosnian Herzegovic public assess, even from what the two of us have said today after this pay phone. I went out to tell you this, so there is no future without truth and justice. Truth and justice is an assumption of the future. And I stand for the full truth and advocate full justice. What you are, I appreciate your attempt to reach today's 98th resolution, but what you have offered and what is offered is actually half the truth and half the justice and would be a very dangerous precedent. Half the truth and half the justice is equal to falsehood and injustice, and I am not ready to participate. All I ask and ask is therefore complete truth and full justice. If a genocide was made in Srebrenica, which it is, it was confirmed by The Hague tribunal by its verdict, do not ask me to raise my hand for paper in which it will not say that a genocide has been committed in Srebrenica. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18765	He's a colleague of the second Vice-President Martin Raguž. I'm sorry, Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18766	It's not a replica, it's a quote. I say the families of the victims don't need this resolution. We need her more. Someone like this, someone like that. I ask you to let us bring this to an end and make a statement about the resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18767	Of course. Thank you very much. Mr. Martin Raguž, second vice president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18768	Thank you very much. Since we took part in the session, I would just like to say, on behalf of the HDZ Club, that we have contributed to the adoption of the resolution by consensus. Here for the public. And I can only say that I regret that on such a difficult and painful issue we do not have the strength in this institution to reach this compromise. But then as a club, we did everything we could to make it happen. And the truth could be far and deep. I don't mean to challenge Mr. Džaferović any of your words, and also don't challenge those who were in favour of this compromise that they don't treat this as genocide, or one of the most serious forms of war crime, which is genocide. And that also stood in this text that everyone was willing to accept. So my willingness to compromise is not giving up on this qualification and it's once and for all to know. And if we want to lead a responsible quality debate here, then we have to respect each other. Not exclusively to claim the right to the truth and to interpret some qualification. And once again, I regret it. We won't be against the resolution because we can't, none of us here, I don't believe anyone is against the resolution. There is a 99 struggle here against political implications and ways of adopting this act, and directly, indirectly, it is about the perception of the right to the truth and the determination of the right to the truth. And there are all the problems between us gentlemen. And it's not the first time in this House, when we're close to compromiseing what happens, man. And what will be the result of this is whether we're closer to each other or more. I'm setting it up. Those who are not ready to compromise. I'm asking a question here in public. I mean, let's get cold heads and see. It would be a great thing for this parliament to adopt a resolution on Srebrenica, to define this as the most difficult form of war crime, to call on everyone to be responsible, to call for justice for everyone, to treat Srebrenica especially at all levels as the moral and legal obligation of this state and all its institutions. Isn't that a shift? It's not enough maybe. I'm not saying that's enough. I'm ready for more. But if he's here at this point that realistic expression of something that can be tomorrow's symbiosis and perspective of this country, I'll always be for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18769	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Mrs. Ljilja Milićević asked for a word as far as I could see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18770	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also have to express my regret that what you've been able to agree on, means that it didn't come here in one form that would be accepted. I personally said 7-8 days ago that not all the resolutions that are being passed in Brussels, America, declarations that are being signed in Strazbur, if not done here. On this occasion, I want you as a College of All Three, although Mr. Raguž's discussion was the last precisely what I wanted to say, it was 10 days before it meant 10 years ago, so 10 days before that 10 years ago, all of you political actors in this political life of Bosnia and Herzegovina were much longer, no effort has been made either by the College to work together on a document that we would adopt here today, as Mr. Špirić often says a positive message in the world. I'm listening to Mr. Moranjkić, so he says, my resolution, the Yahic resolution. Today, I personally had two papers waiting for me on the table. One is the translation of the American convention that he brought, and the other is what Mr. Jahić did the effort and wrote. What I'm saying is that we came into a situation where the last day of 5 to 12 about something needed to be made known that you had more understanding and that it was by the way that we said it was known that July 11th was there, it was known that long ago and that we said we needed to make an effort to do it. We would have had it, we wouldn't be in a position to consult, so as to agree, we go back to the clubs and we don't have the documents. Therefore, my criticism goes to all of us, primarily to you as people we voted for in the chairmanship of why this effort has not been made. And I don't think we can have Yahic or Moranjkićev. We were supposed to have our resolution today. And as long as we talk 100 about this variant of Moranjkic and Jahic, we should have ours and it would have a real effect. All the rest of this I'm afraid is abuse and something else, not what we all talk about, at least this way when we're trying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18771	Thank you. Mr. Morankić still, so let's get this straight. Just for a little while, Mr. Moranjkić, really.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18772	Mr. Chairman, this is more than the president's free interpretation of what I disagree with my esteemed colleague, milićevićki. The Rules of Procedure, which is in force, say the MP is making a resolution. So I don't see anything, and one of those is me, the other is what mine said, because he brought it. What a meal on, what she is, it's a grade of you. So, looking for such nebuliss in me to create a single fam about it is really incorrect for me. That's one thing. And secondly, I was clear, loud and said three months ago, three months ago, in writing, our initiative that went to the Bureau here, because we thought the Presidency was supposed to be the bearer of this activity, so if they think it should come this far. However, there it came across a wall of sense. We've been waiting. We're not even responsible for this today. So we're like, if someone calls 5 to 12, it's like we offered. Therefore, I see no ugly, no unacceptable thing that I have said, because the Rules of Procedure says the MP is making a resolution in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18773	Thank you very much. That's quite clear. Who wants to talk any further? I'm closing the debate. We vote on Mr. Jahić's resolution in the text as Mr. Jahić delivered on the benches this morning, so in this unchanged text. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 21 for, 12 against, 2 abstentions. 20 from the Federation, 1 from RS. The resolution has a general parliamentary majority, but does not have a majority from Republika Srpska, as there are no at least 1/3 votes. So there's no consent in college. 101 I therefore call on MPs from Republika Srpska, because there is a missing entity majority, those who vote against being prepared for the vote. We're going to the second round of voting. Vote now. - 12 against Republika Srpska, so that's more than 2/3. I also find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has not adopted this second resolution on Srebrenica offered by Mr Elmir Jahić. Moving to the 12th point of the agenda, that's Ad.12. The Joint Commission's report on the effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Competition Act The Joint Commission's report was delivered via fax on June 22nd, together with the minutes of the 58nd session. You saw the joint commission agree the text of the law so that the Competition Act was adopted in the text that it was adopted by the House of Representatives. We have a report from the commission. We're pleading on the commission's report. Prepare to vote if there is no debate. I don't think there's any need to argue. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 33 for, no one against, one abstention. Enough entity majority. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly adopted a report by the Joint Commission on the efforts to reach an agreement of the Law on the identical text of the Competition Act, so that this law is definitely adopted in this House. We're going to the 13th item of the agenda, that's Ad.13. A report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina The Joint Commission report was delivered on 27 June and delivered to you on benches this morning. You saw the Joint Commission agree the same text of the law by adopting two amendments. So the commission agreed. If there is no debate, I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote now. - 31 for, 1 against, no abstentions, enough entity majority. I find that the House of Representatives has adopted the Joint Committees on the Effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements 102 of the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is considered to have definitely been adopted in this House. Moving to the 14th point of the agenda, that's Ad.14. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's external debt situation in 2004. The information was delivered to the House on 16 May 2005 and was forwarded to you. This morning you received a report from the Finance and Budget Commission. You saw that the Commission took note of the information and suggested to Dom the conclusion contained in the report. Is there anyone here on d-proposer information? I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18774	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two questions asked, but if the present lady can answer them, because reading this left it to me as a bit unsaid. On page 8, the attached shows that there is a difference between the state of external debt that is not full of 4 billion and the agreed loans that is not full of 6 billion. So there's a difference of 2 billion, so I'm interested -- which loans are related to, because they're related to loans, to which loans are they related? Why aren't they realized? If that's the reason for this difference and what's considered old and what's new? The authentic interpretation is theirs, because I don't see it from the material and whether they are treated equally and why they are so classified as old and new. Is this some practical division of theirs, or is it about something? The second question – Can we, by assessment and assessment, and regarding our known trends, under the alleged signs of income and expenditure of the state, bear the uninterrupted burden of external debt, and is Bosnia and Herzegovina still in financial position to be in charge today and to be able to repay the existing debt? Where's our border? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18775	Thank you very much. Who else? Mrs. Majkić. Here you go, Dušanka.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18776	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I need to say a few words about this item of the agenda. 103 Therefore, according to information from the foreign debt council of Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign debt, close to 4 billion, as an external debt, and 10 billion is the country's internal debt. They say it belongs to a group of countries that have low participation, because it ranges from 30%, but the fact that credit obligations to abroad are currently being paid off by the Federations with 2.5 billion marks and RS with 1.4 billion. This applies therefore to the external debt of Mr. Moranjkić to your question, continuing until the beginning of the war, meaning '92. the year, i.e. the one that was created after the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement. Independently, entities are in charge of an additional 65 million. What's alarming about all this, regardless of the seemingly low level of external duty. Bosnia and Herzegovina is planned to serve an external debt of 248 million this year, which is approximately close to Republika Srpska's budget, or close to Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget. Most of the time, we have seen that it belongs to the IMF, or to the World Bank, and that part of the obligations we have towards the World Bank enables it to directly interfere with the country's economic policy. So, regardless of what external debt data looks optimistic, that optimism is short-acting because every citizen in this country owes 1000 marks. It is not a great debt for normal countries, but we see that Bosnia and Herzegovina is not a normal country in many ways, so paying back external debts is increasingly endangering its development. I'm saying it's not a normal country because it's registered near, an army of nearly 500,000 unemployed with a small number of companies working, which is the economy of this country still unsustainable, which is large, which is a major trade deficit close to barely 37% is the coverage of exports, which are difficulties in the privatisation process of the records in both entities, which is an excessive and expensive administration, which has allowed the lack of new jobs to still allow many young people to leave this country. Therefore, the current authorities no longer matter which category Bosnia and Herzegovina belongs to. I don't expect you to show the citizens of this country how to earn those 1,000 marks per capita to be returned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18777	You don't understand, no microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18778	Wait a minute. So here you have noticed that Mr. Moranjkić had them turn on the microphone for a reason, because he didn't ask for a word and this didn't go into the stenogram at all to know well, so it's a waste of what you are. Who else wants to talk? Minister, there have been some questions here, if you've recorded the questions, so please, if you don't mind. Ms. Ljerka Marić, Minister of Finance and Treasury of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here you go. 104
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18779	Here I officially welcome you all, I am glad that today we have brought an end to today and this information about the state of external duty, this information on the state of foreign duty of Bosnia and Herzegovina with 31.12. is the usual annual information that it speaks of and writes here about the state of foreign duty of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, this information can be much broader and can be with much more detail, especially related, and it can be co-ordinated and with the problems that we currently have because we are facing opportunities, or inability to pay for an internal debt. But this information is really what she writes. Methodologically, we think it's very well done, it's done well, because we've consulted a lot with some other countries that do this kind of information, and we think we're really showing it, starting with the terms of the clarifications used to make information that clearly states what the old debt, the new debt, the hired loans are not engaged, the state of duty. So according to these definitions used there as in those laws when definitions are used and applied throughout this information further and explain what they are about. Indeed, the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina's external debt is the same as you said about 4 billion, and then when we look at all the information, we really see who we have the largest amount of debt and we can see that what we are now returning is the debt to the war and the debt behind the war in a way that, according to the Paris Club's agreed record, we are paying back that debt, and we still haven't begun to repay these commitments to the London club. As part of macroeconomic indicators, i.e. the external debt indicator, we have shown here certain limits that are otherwise used in the calculation when we say whether the country is in charge or over-indebted or not, and in parallel indicators of Bosnia and Herzegovina's duties with other countries we are giving due consideration and we say that Bosnia and Herzegovina is still not an over-indebted country, but that it falls within the level of the medium-indebted countries. So what's really on the agenda for all of us right now is to settle an internal debt that's being considered in relation to old foreign currency savings, war claims and other obligations that we need to settle for our citizens. In the meantime, we have made a strategy for resolving the internal debt and we have adopted the entities and the laws that talk about it. Since the Commission for Human Rights, within the framework of the Constitutional Court, passed this one verdict in which it says that those solutions under these laws are unacceptable, we have, meanwhile, formed a solution to a new commission that should quickly propose some new solutions to the Constitutional Court's apropo verdict. So we're working intensively to say what the economic foundations of this country are that we can and how we can fight an increased internal debt, and today the law on debt and guarantees says what is the height, the possible height of the country's future debt. And there's one percentage of 18% of last year's incomes, which clearly put the country's debt limits. So in the context of the conclusions that have finally been made, we say that the external debt indicators of Bosnia and Herzegovina during the period indicate that the observed external debt indicators continue to remain at sustainable levels, we say that the external debt ratio of approximately 33% compared to the gross social product and votes this country in the category of moderately-indebted countries, and the ratio of service of external debt to exports of around 7% continues to indicate a stable balance in debt repayment capacity. So every year when the budget is done, you know that the budget always shows the projection and says how much it takes for the next financial year to return the apro funds by external debt. And in the framework of the report on the implementation of the budget for last year, it means a clear indicator of how much that was in relation to this favourable rate of dollars.... he is obliged to pay the debt compared to the planned less paid-back debt etc. So the country is dealing well with the existing foreign debt issue. The upper level of the debt according to the criteria defined by the contract under.... shows that the upper limit of the total debt relative to the jidipi is 60% the limit and can be determined after the internal debt resolution procedure has been completed. The external borrowing strategy should be co-insistently based on the growth of the djidips and the country's development needs and should take into account the implications of debt on macroeconomic and payment balance movements, and in this sense we say that the following needs to be ensured: - That most external borrowing is exclusively subject to favourable conditions which are still for this country, because you know that we are still in charge of the IDA 13 conditions of the World Bank, that we still do not accept as a country of borrowing that crosses 1.85% interest and that these are the most favourable funds given to the country. So we're talking about the land as a liability bearer. - That a limited level of commercial borrowing is engaged exclusively in sectors that can repay themselves, which is, of course, a prerequisite for indemnity at all, and for borrowing to focus on the priorities of the country's development and economic growth that is currently being done, because these funds are invested in projects that are infrastructure projects, i.e. some projects that support structural reforms that are necessary as a prerequisite for these other things to be implemented. It is very necessary to reduce
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18780	A little attention, please, the secretary will finish. A little attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18781	For the purpose of budget support means, because we still have very little funding that only the World Bank gives to this country and the last tranche, the third tranche of the European Commission that has been exclusively in favour of supporting the country's budget, means there are no others who support direct public spending and we need to avoid borrowing on the basis of 106 technical assistance that has been happening to us so far regarding the World Bank's loans, but which means in the future will still be an investment character. So we think this is well explained that information provides all the information you need, and we'll talk about internal debt next time.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18782	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Madam Minister, for this detailed explanation. Here's the minister's explanation. Answer the questions seriously and responsibly. I suggest we take note of the information, along with the report and the conclusion of our committee in charge. Prepare to vote. Prepare to vote, distinguished colleagues. Vote now. - 31 for, no problem, one abstention, enough entity majority. I find that we've adopted this conclusion, and that's how we ended the 14th point of the agenda. Moving to the 15th point of the agenda, that's Ad.15. The proposal for a conclusion of the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum on the results of resolving the performance of the Association of Decertified Officers of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Association of Decertified Policemen of Republika Srpska has so. The Commission has submitted conclusions. I'm opening a debate. We've got the neighborhood's conclusions, you've read them. Mr. Jahić is asking for a word, President of the Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18783	This is why you know that our commission, the Commission for Human Rights, works, among other things and on the basis of the notions of so-called citizens or groups of citizens, so this time we've been reviewing the performances of two associations of dessertd police officers from both Bosnian Herzegovina entities, we've formed a subgroup that has been discussing and discussing, interviewing these people, and we've discussed the complete documentation that has been available to us. I will be very brief, normally I will propose to this Parliament to adopt this report and with this proposal measures, but the point is that there is also one part of these solutions to the decertification of police officers where it is mildly said under the big question. Namely, we have cases where there was one indiscipline, so people who 107 had the same, let's say the elements of one were getting the certificates, others were losing, some without any explanation these certificates were taken away. There were also injuries in the sense that these people could not complain, that these people could not complain about their solutions to dessertification and a number of other examples of violations of basic human rights, violations of the Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. I wouldn't be particularly elaborate right now because of the time available to us, and there's everything in the report. So I would suggest that we support this report from different, especially so I would like to point out this third conclusion that it is required to carry out an audit to carry out a review in certain cases where these solutions have been mentioned. And I would ask fellow MPs to support this report. We adopted him unanimously on the committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18784	Thank you very much. Who wants to talk any further? Mr. Gligorić, Mr. Novaković. Just a moment, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18785	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Commission, Mr. Jahić, rightly said about it, there is indeed much to be said. A very professional colleague of Jahiću. I would only supplement, I do not insist on these conclusions, but if I may, I would ask Mr. Jahić to follow this proposal. So under 1. The report and conclusions are accepted, just for a moment, for the accuracy of the Komsiija and it is said that the BiH Council of Ministers is in charge of reviewing the realization of the number 2 conclusion, already Mr Jahić said that, in terms of the formation of the Commission for the Review of the certified process within 30 days. Maybe it's not a problem anymore, and you should let Dom know about it. And the second would be the conclusion, perhaps that's what I don't insist on, but the House of Representatives of our Assembly delivers a report to the OHR Council and lists these competent institutions and, in the end, only says to the association of course, to take the necessary measures within their jurisdiction. Perhaps it should also be appreciated so that it would be just more precise than what it says and I think that the Commission has indeed done consciously and should support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18786	Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković. Here you go. 108
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18787	Thank you. In order not to keep these conclusions a dead letter on paper, it is therefore necessary to define in conclusion 2 who is who will form this review committee. If this is the Council of Ministers, I don't know either, but we have Mr >Gligorić said it, so we have to otherwise define it this way can remain as a conclusion that will never be realized. Now, is that one of the commissions? Maybe the joint commission that already exists is formed, or it's the Council of Ministers, it's now a matter here, but in any case it has to be, for me, it needs to be defined. And as far as conclusion number three is concerned, the need for these activities is undeniable, but I also believe that the House Commission should be tasked with or should adopt amendments, the commission should therefore do the job, or the Commission should adopt amendments, or the Commission should make an application for an assessment of legality. So it's simply as defined that activities should begin, etc. etc. Don't tell me who will, and it seems to me that this dead letter would remain on paper, and it's really about the serious failures that I need at the end of the day, what the conclusions need to be materialized. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18788	Thank you very much. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Jahić, how about these suggestions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18789	Here's the thing. So, we imagined, because you know who ran this certification process, so then the APTF did it, and now there's been a transfer of powers to domestic institutions, and we think that this future commission, so it should be organised by the Council of Ministers, but some commission that should be formed in any case should be formed and how of domestic experts, people who deal with it, but people of international police forces who were somehow sent to the full of this process. So I accept this conclusion by Mr. Gligorić, I think that he also specifies what Mr. Novaković was saying, so that the Council of Ministers is in charge, that I don't know within 30 days, but that in fact all those who complain, all those who complain that these complaints are being considered and that in this way some revision is being carried out now, so we would go into a concrete one process. So all the people, the cops who got the money and the certificates to complete the audit. I think you'd go too far and lose a lot of time and effort and so on, but there are complaints of a large number of police officers both those who haven't received a certificate and their complaints about some others who have received certificates. So I'm not getting into the essence. Indeed, there are many inconsistencies and inconsistencies. 109
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18790	So here you have heard, I suggest, as I conclude the debate that the commission's report with the acceptance of what Mr Jahić was talking about is put to the vote and that we make it clear. So complemented by what Mr. Jahić accepted, and that's recorded in the stenogram. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 30 for, no problem, three abstentions, enough entity majority. We adopted this conclusion and ended the 15th point of the agenda. We're going to the 16th point of the agenda, that's Ad.16. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach an agreement on the request of Member Momčilo Novaković to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act on the control and control of the crossing of the state border by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the College have not reached agreement. We're going to a counter-vote. It's the ones who are against it. Prepare to vote. The ones who are against it. Prepare to vote. So the Federation was mostly against it, but also from the RS, all who are against the vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 14 from the Federation, that's less than 2/3. Procedure adopted pursuant to Article 105. We're pleading to the law now. Prepare to vote and vote for the law, against the law or withheld. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 14 for, 16 against, 1 abstention. The law wasn't passed. Let's go to the 17th point of the agenda please nice, 14 for, 16 against.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18791	Are you asking for a repeat vote? Here's the vote again. It's a re-election. 110
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18792	On request. Prepare to vote again. Vote now. - 16 for, 15 against. He's got a general. There's no entity majority from the Federation. Let's see from the Federation. No consent, no consent from me. The Federation, so who's against the Federation, prepare and vote. Vote now. - 15 against. This law has been passed. The 17th item of the agenda is Ad.17. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the proposal for the conclusions of MP Petar Kunić, proposed in the debate on the information of the Council of Ministers' Chairman on the state in the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, votes against those. There was no entity majority from the Federation. Prepare to vote against. Vote now. - Ten against. Less than 2/3. It's a consensual conclusion. We're going to the 18th point of the agenda, that's Ad.18. The appointment of members of the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina is therefore the appointment of members of the Election Commission. We were supposed to name three. In the last session, we adopted the conclusion that we had obliged the ad hoc commission to conduct a public competition for the selection of three members of the Election Commission from three constituent nations to fill out the seats of members of the Election Commission after 30 June when the members of the Election Commission who are the parties are running out of mandate. Ad hoc commission in co-operation with the Election Commission conducted a public competition. Yesterday was the ad hoc session of the ad hoc commission and the report you received this morning. As you have seen, candidates from the bošnjački and Srsk people are proposed, while we do not have candidates from the Croatian people for reasons that no one has applied for this contest. The Ad hoc commission has already launched a new competition, so I hope we will also get a candidate for a member of the Croatian People's Election Commission already at the next session. You have in your report the Commission's proposals for candidates from the Bosniak People's Order. Vedran Hadžović and Enes Behulović were proposed, and from the order of the Serbian people Tihomir Vojičić, I guess, also Ostoja Kremenović. 111 We vote on each of them, right? I'm opening a debate. Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18793	My colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I think they are members of the Electoral Committee, that the Electoral Commission is an important state authority. We have chosen three members of the Electoral Commission for the last time, and now we have the opportunity to choose three again. I regret that no one in the Croatian people has responded to the competition and I believe that we will get to the proposal very soon. But when it comes to the selection of two members, we have a proposal from the Commission for two members, I have to say that I can only speak on the basis of my personal impressions about people, because, therefore, I can't say anything negative about any candidate, because there are no arguments, I don't have at the end of the day or the biography of candidates, but what I want to say publicly, what I was saying last time, I think we also have an obligation to say when it comes to the choice of the bošnjački therefore member of the Election Commission that we have Vedran Hadžović, Enes Behulović from the Bosnian people. They won't blame me for him I don't know, I thought last time that this parliament had an obligation, first of all because Vedran has been helping here for a long time, setting up the Parliamentary Assembly, I think that as colleagues, friends, esteeming his work should give support and I will personally give support to Vedran Hadžović. And when it comes to candidates from the Serbian people, Tihomir Vujićčić and Ostoja Kremenović, I must say that it is my duty as a state MP to say that I Vujičić not know, but what I do know is that Ostoja Kremenović has been working long in the state administration and that it is a man who knows well, a man who has written a lot about the state administration and in this sense I want to say that is the only reason why my colleague Kremenović will have the advantage of me in relation to Vujičić. And that's why I think it would be good, so when we choose members of the Election Commission, we make sure we get to the good members of the Electoral Commission. So as far as I'm concerned, I will personally support Mr Hadžović and Mr. Kremenović, and I have cited for what reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18794	Thank you very much. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Živković, so Mr. Novaković, so Mrs. Milićević, or Živković, Milićević, Novaković. Here you go. Beriz Belkić. Just keep going.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18795	Ladies and gentlemen, I think there was a problem in this home last time since the chairman of the ad hoc commission didn't explain this report and they have a tax on who passed it. But there's no biography or anything about 112 of it. I expected someone from the ad hoc commission to have Mr. Novaković, if there is not already Zorić and Felić, to say something about these candidates. I really believe and most people don't know people. I don't know Tihomir Vujičić the way he came first to be here, and I don't have any biographic data. I can't talk about a man I don't know how to plead. I think there was a problem last time. I believed that this problem would be overcome by writing in the report some basic features that were managed by the ad hoc commission to compare these candidates in this way. However, here we have the same situation as last time to plead on the people of Enes Behulović, etc. and that we don't know anything about these people, and we need to stop doing it like that once, or we need to put our ad hoc commission in charge, if he doesn't already write it, to get out, before we even have a debate about it, to say a few sentences that were criteria and that led them in this way to make these candidates fit, or suggest, because we all know, probably those who were first put on the list to vote on them first and that they had a better chance of getting through, so if someone from this ad hoc commission had the will, I'd like to say a few words to these people and the criteria that led them to put it in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18796	Thank you very much. Mrs. Milićević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18797	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I actually left Mr. Križanović, after he said he had already had to leave a letter he received meant by one of the candidates who applied was and was invited to talk. It is a letter from Mrs. Branka Inić, which means she has applied for a competition on this matter where she is actually trying through the Commission for Gender Equality, I say in this case, I am Vice-President, Mr. Križanović, to point out that the Law on Gender Equality is not respected and not applied, that she is, in some way, meaning to her as a woman when she talks in that commission that she is not being paid full and due attention. That letter was sent to the Centre of Women and Society in Sarajevo, which promotes women in politics, and led to a number of women in the election process, and then this centre of women in politics passed it on to Mr. Križanović. So this is how I want to fulfill a commitment made by Mr. Križanović and to get to know you means that there were others who think that they should have had an advantage, but thank God, talking and serving because the commission also points out that some have more references and advantages than others. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18798	Okay. Thank you. Mr. Novaković, go ahead. 113
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18799	Thank you. Mr. Chairman only in the event that there is no chairman of the ad hoc commission of Mr. Zorić, and there were, among other things, questions concerning the work of this commission, if I would like to say that a total of 7 candidates have appeared in the competition, of which 4 from the order of the Srsk people 3 from the Bosniak people. If the competition had provided for the conditions necessary for someone to therefore be a member of the Election Commission, I do not know, among other things, all the documents, certified copies, etc. etc., but one much more important condition was five years of experience in the conduct of elections. So that's what the competition predicted either. On this basis, the ad hoc commission found that out of the seven candidates who applied to the competition, 3 candidates do not meet the conditions of the competition. Experiences in the election process and we asked what it means to amend the law on experience and the electoral process means working in one of the election committees, monitoring elections in front of an organisation, means institutions, etc. Of these candidates, then, Mr Saviće did not meet the conditions because his documents were unconfirmed, so the completely unconfirmed documents and on this side did not meet the condition. Mr. Amir Pilav had no experience, meaning the necessary experience in the election process and Mrs. Branka Inić too. IInić, actually. For these reasons, the commission had practically 4 names in front of it, this is Mr. Ostoja Kremenović and Mr. Tihomir Vujičić of the Serb people and Mr. Vedran Hadrović and Enes Behulović of the Bosniak people and they met the signs of full compliance. The Commission held a conversation, i.e. having a conversation with all candidates, and with candidates who failed to meet the conditions, explained to them why they could not be candidates, which is why the conditions were not met. So the basic motive in the commission's work of this ad hoc commission was to determine whether or not there were more qualified members, so that's what our motive is. And of course now is the dilemma whether those that are proposed under number one are more quality than those under number two. It's a matter of individual opinion now. But what I am obliged to say is that the commission for the Bosniak people's proposal was unanimous, so Vedran Hadžović, and the regular number 2 is Enes Behulović. The voting principle is the same as last time, so we vote for the first if he doesn't get the support he's voting for the second on the list. This list is also practical for the future if one of the members resigns or is prevented from working. The following means from this list is a member of the Electoral Commission. So it expires in 2006, of course, until the commission's term of office. From the order of the Serbian people, Mr Vujičić received more votes than Mr Kremenović and is therefore in the first place. Both candidates in terms of expertise have fulfilled. So Mr. Kremenović here stated that he knew the electoral process, that for a long time, that he had worked in the executive government in the field of public administration, etc., scientific and professional works. 114 Mr. Vujučić was a course instructor. He has a recommendation from..., of, he was a member of the municipal electoral commission in two terms. So he fully met the conditions regarding the public competition and thus proposed a commission according to this order to propose a list of candidates.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18800	Okay. Who wants to talk any further? Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18801	Well, here's the big part of what I wanted to ask Mr. Novaković sort of answered me. The point is that I was interested in whether these three members who are said to be not meeting the requirements, or whether the ad hoc commission guarantees, or whether this parliament is not being denied tomorrow in terms of the legality of the procedure, etc. Because of this criterion that you've been saying for five years of experience. The team previously estimated here is that we already have announcements that things are probably being checked out in some way and that we are going to enter the process probably complaints and lawsuits etc. So Parliament is absolutely certain that the three candidates that have been eliminated from the procedure have been absolutely eliminated on the basis of the arguments that you have been explaining for a moment.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18802	Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18803	That this ad hoc commission, the ad hoc commission, has been working on the Rules of Procedure on public competition procedures and appointments of members of the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Article 9 says that the commission therefore controls the fulfilment of the general and special conditions required in the competition and the commission is interviewing candidates who meet general and special conditions. So in this sense, the Commission has acted in accordance with these acts here and Parliament, of course, of course, and Parliament can be sure. The Commission, therefore, must also say that when it comes to this part that the members of the Election Commission, therefore those who know much more about the Election Law, members of the ad hoc commission were therefore completely unanimous when it comes to these conditions. I also have to say something here, since all the candidates have passed, so all four of these candidates have pleaded that they are not members of any political party. So all four have come forward.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18804	Thank you very much. Mr. Bešlagić. Here you go. 115
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18805	The first came a letter from Branka Inić, who has a fact that I would say that, I note that, not even in the competition itself, I see the text of the competition, nor here in that conversation did I ask for any documentation regarding my experience in the conduct of the elections. And he's usually working on a Helsinki Committee that's working intensively on the election. So I'm asking you not to, in the competition it wasn't, he wasn't in the competition, so I'm telling you what it says, according to that. Is he taking the paper, okay. All right, the commission admits it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18806	Novaković. Here you go. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18807	The first thing about a woman can't take precedence over other conditions. I'm sorry that we couldn't choose Mrs. Branko Inić, but be careful, what she writes, I read the public competition, where it says that, that it takes experience in the conduct of elections and that it took meaning, it's normal that you have to show this experience by something, by some document. How. You can't trust someone to have or have no experience. Such a documentary in Mrs. Branka Inić's documentation and that's what.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18808	And how did you recognize men and women?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18809	Anybody else want to talk? Mr. Moranjkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18810	That's one flaw, so he turned it around until I remembered you probably wrote it in the contest here. Here he doesn't say there's a three-member competition in the three constituent nations. Well, I don't know, so I'm saying he's probably in a contest, because here
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-29-1.u18811	Next, whoever wants to. I'm closing the debate. So the procedure is well known. The first person to get most of it is still unvoted. We're talking about Vedran Hadžović. Prepare to vote. Who is it that Hadžović is a member of the Electoral Commission. Vote now. - 31 for, no problem, no abstentions, enough entity majority. Congratulations to Mr. Vedran Hadžović. You've been elected a member of the Electoral Commission. 116 Tihomir Vojičić. Prepare to vote. I've got Vojičić, Vujičić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 23 for, 2 against, 2 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. Congratulations to Mr. Tihomir Vujičić. Nineteenth Point of the Ad.19 agenda. Appointing a member of the Administrative Commission of the House of Representatives (instead of Nikola Špirić) I propose that Mr Mladen Potočnik be appointed a member of the Administrative Commission instead of Nikola Špirić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 29 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions, enough entity majority. Mr. Mladen Potočnik has been elected member of the Administrative Commission instead of Mr. Nikola Špirić. And I suggest we solve point 20 in the package. Ad.20. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the return of refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, (b) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Russian Federation on International Social Transport, (c) The eighth amendment to the Treaty on Donation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the United States for the Reconstruction Funding Programme – Business Development Programme, (e) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Russian Federation on the establishment of an Intergovernmental Bosnian-Russian Commission for Trade and Economic Co-operation, (e) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Russian Federation on Trade and Economic Cooperation, Glasmo on the ratification of all agreements in the package. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 32 for, one against, no abstentions. That's enough of the entite majority. We have ratified the agreements under a), b, c, d) and e. This is how the 59th session ended. The session ended at 7:15 p.m.
