ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u18994	My colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 63rd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome all of you here in the hall and once again on behalf of the College of the House of Representatives, I apologize for being late for the session of 30 minutes, here are 35 minutes because, before this session, we had a session of the Extended College where we discussed some questions concerning the future work of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I ask you to respect our apology. I find that 30 MPs are present at the moment and that the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina has the conditions for full work and full decision-making. For today they announced the absence of Mr Abdulah Nakaš for health reasons and Mr Jozo Križanović and here I am taking the opportunity to justify their absence today. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović announced a little delay. She'll show up during the session. That's what I'm getting from the announcements about a leave of absence from today's session. We expect every moment that this number will increase here in the hall because we know that some other MPs were present at the Parliament building and at the college meetings, so that during the session I will inform you of the final number of fellow Members and fellow Members and MPs present in the work of today's 63rd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues, you received a call for today's session. In the invitation, you received a draft agenda. I ask you, according to the College's decision and the decision of the enlarged College from the text of the agenda that you have before you, to rule out item 7 concerning the Security Intelligence Policy platform, because our joint commission has not finished its part of the work and this is a request from our joint commission. It'll be at the next session, of course. Today the plan is this, so before I open the debate on the agenda, and that is all about the changes to the proposed text of the agenda. Today's plan is to work there until 13 o'clock, so in the period from 13, then there to 14, 14 and 15 we take 2 one break in which we have some international activities, members of the College and we have a press conference on rotation in the College itself, because with 8 August this year, the office of the chairman of the House of Representatives takes over the distinguished colleague of the First Deputy at the moment, Mr. Nikola Špirić, and wait and wait for the applause when I say that I am leaving the post as deputy, so now applaud. I beg you, Mr. Lagumdžija. I think it'll be better for your applause. Thank you. Thank you. I think the applause would be better, at least when it comes to your applause for this second part, that I'm leaving this position. But I apologize for that, please. Yes, I apologize, therefore, for these little comments that were provoked by Mr. Lagumdžija's actions. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Here you go. Mr. Adem Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u18995	My colleagues and colleagues, I would like to add an existing agenda one conclusion. The conclusion would also mean that we are not overly discussing this, and the conclusion would be: – The House of Representatives of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly asks the Council of Ministers to prepare by the next session information on the situation in the economy with a special reference to the state of agricultural production in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is mutated by what happens to farmers in front of the Assembly, and I don't think we have the right to put our heads in the sand and act like nothing's happening, no matter what the motives of these people are out there and where they come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u18996	Thank you very much. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? I'm closing the debate on the agenda. I think we can vote on this as Mr. Huskić's working conclusion. Prepare to vote. We are voting on the proposal for Mr. Huskić's conclusion. So we can classify as a point, the last item of the agenda. To be that, a proposal for a conclusion as a last resort, no, no, we won't. We've thrown out the practice of working conclusions. So this is the proposal for a conclusion, and this is going to be this last item of the agenda, so when we get to the session, on, then this conclusion about it will be voted on. Prepare to vote on the completion of the agenda proposed by Mr Huskić as the last item of the agenda, the proposal for this conclusion. Vote now. - 22 for, 7 against, no abstentions, no majority from the entity. Republika Srpska has consent. The college has reached agreement and I realize that this was adopted as a part of the agenda, because we in the College have reached an agreement to make it 15 points of the agenda. 3 Dear colleagues and colleagues, after this I declare the agenda of the 63rd session of our home as follows 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 62nd session of the House of Representatives, 2. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law on an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 4. Proposal for a law on road safety (second reading), 5. Giving prior consent to the appointment of the deputy general auditor of the financial operations of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institution, 6. Report on the implementation of the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and international obligations of BiH for 2004, 7. Information on the results of the application of the Law on Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 8. Analysis of the Council of Ministers' decisions to suspend the application of a zero customs rate under the Free Trade Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, or the Free Trade Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro, 9. A brief analysis of Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign trade exchange – The status of the BiH trade deficit and the measures to reduce it, 10. Proposed measures to mitigate the consequences of an increase in basic consumer prices following the introduction of VAT, your material is divided into 9. Joint session of both homes, then 11. Information on an initiative to consider the possibility of introducing a passive voter registration system in Bosnia and Herzegovina and co-operation with the CIPS Project Directorate, 12. Information from the Council of Ministers on the issue of passports and license plates, 13. Giving consent to ratification of the Convention on tripartite consultations in order to promote the implementation of international labour standards in 1976 and below 14. The proposal for a conclusion proposed by Mr. Adem Huskić. We move to the first item of the agenda of a respected colleague and colleague. That's Ad.1. The adoption of the 62nd session minutes You received the minutes from the 62nd session today on the benches. If you're ready and you've read it, we can plead. If you're not ready and you haven't read it, we can leave it for the next session. I am opening a debate on the minutes, i.e. item 1 of the proposed agenda, the adopted agenda. Here you go. I'm closing the debate. I understand this as if you've read the record and are ready to plead. Prepare to vote on the minutes. Vote now. 4 - 30 for, no problem, 1 abstention. Enough entity majority. I find that we adopted the minutes of the 62nd session and thus ended the agenda. Let's go to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad2. MP questions and answers The answers to questions asked at the 58th session were received by Mr Jozo Križanović and Momčilo Novaković. I ask you to be brief with this item on the agenda, not to use a lot of business time for this item of the agenda, if you can respect this request, because today we do have a large agenda with a lot of important points and it should all end together. I'm asking first of all the colleagues who got the answers if they had any comments.? Mr. Novaković's comment, you'll get the word of everyone else.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u18997	Madam Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I must say that as you yourself have said, I have received an answer to a parliamentary question which is all but not an answer to what I have asked so that, not that I am not satisfied with the answer, but what I have received and I do not consider an answer to my parliamentary question and that is so. So I know I can't change anything, but the fact that the essence of my parliamentary question was a reserve according to knowledge, or expertise to the chosen one, is doing the job. I must say that the committee on the issues it has asked has not convinced me, because the question is, expert questions adjectives from the words of integration and security and what are called the residents of the village of Razbod and Stanovi and the smallest hand appreciates both this competition and this only job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u18998	Thank you. Mr. Križanović is gone so we can't hear his comment. Now let's go to the new MPs' questions. Mr. Kunić asked for a word. I couldn't give him my word because the word should have Mrs. Novaković and Križanović. Because that's what this agenda is about. And now it's his turn, but here he comes out of the O.R. and he tells me that I should give a word when to ask for a word. I should give the word when it comes to the one who asks for the word. Here's who wants to ask more questions? Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u18999	Before I ask this question, I would like to remind the College of the House that there have been fewer and fewer questions coming to mind lately and that, in that sense, there is something that the College of the House should do. To take a look at the questions that have been answered so far and see why we don't get answers anymore. This is indeed, a large number of questions each time MPs ask, very few answers coming up. Regarding my parliamentary question, it was addressed to the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Civil Affairs. I ask the competent ministry to provide me with an answer to the following questions: - Is there a precise record of all travel documents produced and delivered to Bosnia and Herzegovina? - Is it true that a number of travel documents have been delivered directly to the DKP network by the instructions of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and is this not the kind of failure in the work of this ministry because the visa regime for Bosnia and Herzegovina is so strict? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19000	Thank you. Who else wants to ask a question? Give your question in writing. Mr. Huskić. Here you go. Let the services take questions from the MPs. You sit and leave only on the side, until the service comes to take this, or person from the Service who will take your paper. Here you go, Mr. Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19001	Thank you. I have two questions. First – various comments and announcements of neighbouring Republic of Croatia can be read in the media recently that they will build a bridge on the Peljesac peninsula to bypass the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Neum. Many experts warn that this would jeopardise Bosnia and Herzegovina's long-term interest in open sea access. I ask the Presidency and the Council of Ministers of BiH whether the construction of the Peljesac bridge threatens Bosnia and Herzegovina's interest in open sea access? And if the answer is yes – how do they intend to protect the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina? First. And secondly, as most are known at the Ankara Police Academy, study seven Bosnian students from which four went through the federal MUP and who were directly approved to pay travel expenses as a monthly scholarship of 200 marks, and secured jobs after the successful completion of the study at the police academy. The remaining three students went through the Bosnia and Herzegovina Security Ministry, which has not been granted any scholarship and travel expenses, while 6 travel expenses have been paid, but with refund. It is also known that two students have successfully completed this study without being employed upon their return. I ask the question to the Ministry of Security – Why and for what reason do these things happen and why, after returning, students, as well as the specialized academic staff of our countries cannot have the opportunity and opportunity to work in jobs for which they are educated? I asked this question to the intervention of a group of these students, so please answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19002	Thank you, Mr. Huskić. Mrs Ljiljana Milićević asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19003	My question is this similar to that of Mr. Huskić – will he and when. how can MPs in the House of Representatives be familiar with possible routes and solutions of the Adriatic-Ionian Road and Corridor V-c? I'm asking this about Herzegovina, because the fact is that we're learning from the press about possible variations. So the question to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Transport and Communications – will we, as a House, be familiar with possible routes and will there be discussions on this?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19004	Thank you very much. Who else wants to ask a question? Mr. Filip Andrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19005	Mr. Chairman, respected fellow MPs, I asked the question at the House session on June 14th, i.e. I gave an initiative to our Human Rights Commission on beating up prisoners in KPZ Zenica. How much information I have, i.e. this could be seen from the media, was visited by the Commission. There she saw, it seems to me a lot of ugly things, and how much of that report, or their insight into the terrain, might conclude that it was very alarming and urgent. We know that the Human Rights Komsiija had its session yesterday and that it had this report on the agenda, so I'm curious here why they didn't deliver the answer to me personally, and also to the House so that maybe today we could discuss it a little bit and possibly take some steps, because it's really a very urgent case so they don't wait to go through their vacations now and only there in September, who knows when it might come to the turn, when it's important every day, because that's the situation. Well, I'd love to. I don't think there's a President of the Commission here. Have any of the deputies been able to answer me right now. Here comes the President of the Commission, well, I'll do it if I have to repeat my question. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19006	Don't say it again. There's no need. If you're done, thank you. Who else wants to ask a question? There are no new parliamentary questions. There is, yes, I'm sorry. Mr. Vinko Zorić, please. I'm sorry, I didn't see.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19007	I have one question for the Council of Ministers to answer – Are the exact inscriptions I read yesterday and today in the media that the authors of Croatian and Serbian nationalities are being kicked out of the Library in Bugojn, and if so, why is that done? Is it because these authors wrote bad deeds, or because of nationality?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19008	Okay. Who wants to ask the question further? Thank you very much. I'm closing this agenda item. As far as this is concerned, I don't want to have any controversy over any of the issues here, as the President of the Human Rights Commission is called, regarding Mr Andrić's question. There's a report, right? You can eat. Let's give a brief answer, I mean there's a Rules of Procedure to give an answer. I mean, we can't do that.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19009	At yesterday's session, the Commission gave an answer, that is, to the parliamentary question, it was not only the parliamentary question of MP Filip Andrić, but it was also the appeal of one of the sons of those prisoners, so we gave an answer to the question with concrete measures. I don't know why it didn't come to.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19010	Thank you. I ask that, if it is not done, yesterday was a session of the Commission, it is not technically processed, processed and shared to people that people as they are called have in this way and have in mind the views of our parliamentary Commission for Human Rights. We're moving to the third item of the Ad.3. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law on an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the Honored Member and colleagues of the Bill were delivered on 19 July 2005. He was delivered to you at the 62nd session. You know this is about the end of the term of office of foreign members of the Electoral Commission, as far as I know. 8 I am opening a debate on the request, yes, on the motion for an emergency procedure under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. We move on to a statement on the procedure under Article 105. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 26 for, four abstentions, no objection, enough entity majority. Procedure adopted pursuant to Article 105. Now we're voting on the law itself. Prepare to vote on the law. Vote now. - 30 for, no problem, no abstentions. Enough entity majority. I find that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law on a proposal from the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Let's go to the point of the four agenda, that's A.4. I would like to remind you that, at the 62nd meeting, we approved the amendment phase by July 22nd. The Transport and Communications Commission held a session yesterday and considered the amendments submitted within this authorised additional period of time. The amendments were submitted by Mr Dušanka Majkić, Sead Avdić, Adem Huskić, Filip Andrić and Martin Raguž. You have received a report from the Commission. You have seen that the Commission has not adopted any of the amendments submitted, and those MPs again want to defend their amendments at the plenary stage. I'll remind you of all the amendments we have in the plenary phase. Therefore, those submitted before the Commission's first report and these following the Commission's supplementary report. So in the plenary phase, the amendments were submitted, finally, by Mirsad Ćeman 21 amendments; Adem Huskić two amendments he submitted after the Commission's first report and one new amendment he submitted in this new deadline and wants to defend him in the plenary phase, after he was not accepted in the Commission; Mr Milorad Živković defends one amendment; Dušanka Majkić defends nine amendments; Martin Raguć and Filip Andrić defends ten amendments and Sead Avdić defends two amendments. I remind you, gentlemen, we adopted the bill at the last session in the first reading. Now we're in second reading. So we're discussing the amendments. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. 9 Who Wants to Speak? Mr. Filip Andrić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19011	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, we discussed these amendments at a committee session and the Commission took a stand. Since the first reading of the Law had passed, that is, accepted principles and principles, and a large number of amendments had just concerned the principles of the Law because it also challenged the constitutionality of certain provisions of the Law. Therefore, in principle, the Commission took the view not to accept any amendments, although there were amendments to which there was a consensus, on the Commission to accept and thus all of them were forwarded to the House for consideration and even adoption. Therefore, I would ask you to follow some of these amendments a little more closely, because this law is really trying to, or this law would change constitutional jurisdiction when it comes to the matter defined by this law. I therefore think that these amendments should be carefully considered and a large number of amendments to the bar proposed by me along with Mr Raguž on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club should be accepted. I don't know which order we're going to go from amendments to amendments. I'd like to explain some of my amendments, so I could go in a row. In the case of Amendment I, it refers to the jurisdiction in the adoption of regulations defining this material, i.e. sublegal acts. The Commission's explanation, contrary to this amendment, was that this way it wanted to be defined in a unique way, in the entire BiH area, this matter without getting into jurisdiction. And with one such explanation, it could even give up on this amendment first, when it comes to giving authority to the minister of transport and BiH's ties, that, in cooperation with the competent minister from the county, canton, or RS or Brcko District, they adopt certain regulations, regulations that would in a unique way regulate the whole matter, in a unique manner regulate this matter throughout the BiH area. It's kind of understandable and acceptable. However, when it comes to the remaining amendments, from Amendment II to the conclusion of the IX, or the X amendment, it is about the clean transfer of competences from the county ministries to the federal level, or entity level, or the transfer of jurisdiction from the Ministry of Interior to the Ministry of Education, which, by many, would probably not be good, because experiences from neighbouring countries, specifically from the Republic of Croatia teach us that they are now restoring that competence to the Ministry of Interior from the Ministry of Education. Especially when it comes to financial effects, when it comes to criminal provisions, this law would result in a significant flow of money from the county budget to the BiH budget, which we also believe is not justified in the entity's budget. Therefore, I think it would be good to discuss these amendments thoroughly again and adopt a large number of these amendments. Otherwise, we're going to make one mess legal, we're going to bring this law into collegiate with the Federation Constitution of the County Constitution, which in no way would be good for me, and I don't think it should be anybody's goal. When we discussed it on the committee, it was from thinking that none of the provisions of this law should produce such effects, namely the transfer of 10 counties to entities, or entities to the state, and we should achieve the goal of regulating this matter in one unique way throughout BiH. I therefore call on my colleagues to support amendments from 2nd to the final 10th proposed by the HDZ Representatives' Club and to become an integral part of the law. For now, if there's any further explanation, I'm ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19012	Thank you very much. Who else? We have Mr. Momčilo Novaković reported. Let her prepare Mrs. Marija Perkanović has, at least she's registered with me like that, isn't Marija Momčilo? Is it Momčilo? Yes, it is. Just watch out for these tasters, and I'll have him show up as soon as you start with the hands around these tasters, this is where he paints it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19013	I thank Mr. Chairman, I must say that as we all know, it is one of the laws on which the Commission has most worked and on several occasions, therefore, debated and probably, one of the laws on which the most amendments were introduced in the commission phase, and it is obvious that even after the end of that commission phase, the practice was continued, so we have a huge number of amendments. I also had to say a few dozen amendments that actually worked on a specific area that was not processed at all in law, and later I see that Mrs. Majkić suggested something similar, so here. With what I don't know now, they're in Section 94. So, again proposed, to defend themselves again. I don't know if they're defended or not at this commission stage. Since they were not defended at the commission stage, they could practically not be the subject of defence here today means that the House is simply not at the commission stage. I'm not saying it because I don't think they're good, but I'm saying it because it's a shame that this whole area hasn't found its place in this law and that, given the huge number of amendments, I haven't repeated my amendments, but in agreement with the people of the profession, I went to the variant to propose a special law that will treat this area. And, in that sense, I would also like to invite Mrs. Majkić to work together on this law and today these amendments that could not be considered, so these amendments and these amendments, and they are the subject of my and her consent and the proposal of a special law. Given the large number of amendments as well as the fact that we have been really long in the debate on this law, I will also state the position of the SDS Club, namely we will only support the amendment of the X Club of HDZ. All other amendments will therefore be rejected and we will support the law in the text proposed by the Commission, I say with the amendment of the X Club of HDZ. If any amendment, of course what I'm saying now, can be understood differently but I just want to say that if some amendments are adopted that are in the principles of this law that the SDS Club won't support then the law. So, to make it perfectly clear that my club's position and that I am fully aware of it means that the House is very difficult now, by adopting a powerful or these amendments, it can retain the basic concept that the law has and therefore one of my suggestions at the end of my colleagues. Of course, I don't think she'll be respected and that's to give up these amendments. It means we can get to the law on the Commission's proposal. Thank you. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19014	Thank you. Who wants to talk any further? Mr. Ćeman, have Mrs. Majkić prepare, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19015	Mr Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I have put into the commission phase, i.e. for the commission phase, a significant number of amendments, over 50, and I can say at this point that I am not satisfied with the Commission's relationship with so many amendments, given that in the commission phase, in a direct or indirect manner, it is quite what I have proposed adopted. I must be honest and tell the good part of the content of these amendments to the Commission presented, is what I have been thinking about on this subject, consulting many who have knowledge or experience in the area we are working on. But part of those amendments came out of my contacts with one part and the academic public on some round tables, on which I participated, etc. I mention this to say, therefore, that I am not unsatisfactory at least not, to a large extent, by the Commission's relationship with what I have proposed. However, when I looked at the Commission's report, I got the impression that some of the things I suggested were really, in my opinion, irrefutablely rejected or not accepted. That's why I found that it made sense in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to suggest again as it is said in business, to defend a number of amendments, some 20s, and that came to all of you who got the materials related to this bill's proposal. Given what counterpart Novaković said earlier, I could say that I do not understand the approach of whom, though I am sure, that a significant number of renewed amendments do not affect the way he said, in the principles of this law, but in many segments or things explain, they specify some in a different way to edit etc. But it's not essentially about denying the principles of this law that I myself supported in my first reading. That's why I don't understand the apriors telling me, none of it will be accepted. Of course, it's the right of both the club and each of us to determine according to any amendments, but then it does in some way suggest that sometimes it's over and that it's not worth some particular attention to get involved in some issues because we just have apriors of negative attitudes. This is not a replica of a colleague, Novaković, but in fact, we're talking about perhaps some climate we create when it comes to this law as a whole. I am, of course, for us to get to this law today, I am sure that what is not necessary or what this one simply won't go into favour of the adoption of the law, maybe even consider that if we pull it, but I'm not apore to simply not respect at least part of the effort that has been put into it. I will therefore, before it comes to a decision-making phase on amendments to some chronology and methodology that our Rules of Procedure implies, possibly consider, precisely in order to come to a proposal of legislation from which the amendment could, let me say so, although I am reluctant to give up without a vote, but certainly for some I will ask for a statement, respecting, of course, and respecting your will as a colleague, in the same way that I will treat other amendments of some of you, others who are proposed, accepting them or eventually not accepting them. Thank you very much. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19016	Thank you. Mrs. Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19017	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, is too serious a law that we could just wave our hand and say forward, I will not support this and that amendment. Secondly, for the first time, it seems to me that it is much more important what the proposal is and what the amendments contain, than from which MP club they come from, which I think would be extremely irrational for it to be a fundamental element when we judge whether we support or not to support some of the amendments. Thirdly, I don't know how Mr. Novaković thinks he could make up for, say, Chapter VIII and remain all the other provisions, what would that law look like? That there is only a new law that treats Chapter VIII, if I understand Mr. Novaković correctly. In that sense, I have sought to treat the amendments proposed only as regards the humanity of this law, meaning that children are covered and as regards the second part, which concerns compliance with EU directives. I agree that the Commission has lost a lot of time or spent a lot of time or a lot of time agreeing to this law. But when we don't know what to do well, we could at least rewrite it well. We have in our neighbourhood, Croatia has very well regulated its Road and Road Safety Act and many things that this one, in line with EU directives, should not have been particularly philosophized, should have simply been rewritten. In that sense, I'll just briefly fly over my amendments. So the amendment and regulation of children's questions. If this parliament considers that children's issues are not important in traffic, reject this amendment. The second issue is about overseeing the work of the Organisation and Conducting Drivers' Exams Agency. Who should control the way all these procedures are conducted? It's a state agency, and it's not left to anyone and in any way to regulate that matter. The third amendment is about school equipment, or practice that one must fulfill in order to be able to deal with this area. He's just saying, candidates for traffic engineers which means they can work on, as transport managers. They can't work on training for candidates. They are not individuals, although they are traffic engineers, they do not have the necessary experience to do the job. The fourth amendment is a direct alignment with EU directives and which says, I have listed here the White Paper, the number of pages in the White Paper that says the institution must be determined, that procedures must be established and that a procedure for passing driving exams must be established. Without it, the driver's license cannot be internationally recognised even though our colleagues say it will be settled by law. I don't know how. 13 Amendment V, also replaced by the introduction of a new agency. So please tell me, isn't it more logical that there's a state agency that won't interfere with passing driver's exams? I remind you again that in the 90 centers surveyed in this country that exist, if only one exam is purchased, we have 90 potential murderers on the streets. I can't believe that such an amendment can't be accepted by the SDS Club. Amendment VI speaks of a new point, which is who are driving instructors, lecturers, authorized interrogators, that they are obliged to improve professionally. My dear coelge, in many areas, we know that we must learn lifelong learning today, in many areas. Why wouldn't it be in this area that's directly related to our lives? So these points that I, 3,4,5 and 6 refer directly to the training program and the constant education of people who deal with this matter. I also called on the EU directive, which says that the work of respondents must be monitored and controlled through the authority of each Member State. So, at that point of the law, I tried to comply with the EU directive. In Amendment VII, I added a new text that absolutely, EU Directive 91439 says that the licence for categories C and D will only be issued in drivers who have passed the B-category exam. Our law stipulates that we can go right now, take a 7-ton driving test without having a B-category before. These directives exclude the EU. So I'm literally quoting the prescribed EU directive. So I'm responsible for what I wrote here. Amendment VIII, concerns that drivers who have expired the importance of driving licences, are obliged to listen to the cycle of lectures in the field of traffic safety regulations prescribed by the competent educational departments in co-operation with professional associations. Why don't we rebuild? Our calls are such that if you were now a driver with a 20-year internship, you would ask again the question of how many questions you would not answer. I also call on the EU directive that states that the existing courses that are being implemented in BiH today do not cover the overall programme in the area of traffic safety regulations. What else is important here? BiH was once together with Slovenia, Croatia and Serbia, one of the countries that had equal questions as part of the theoretical part of the driving exams. This was about 700th today, these countries that I listed in the driving issues have about 1,100 to 1,200 and BiH has 500. All the areas of praise, so our drivers are really damaged in the good part of the knowledge they have after the driver's test. And another point, related to point 9, is that the person who first acquired the right to drive a motor vehicle is issued a test driver's license with a period of 2 years. Only BiH is the country whose driver's license is first obtained forever. All over the west, I'm calling out for you to have her or not, depending on your behavior. I don't think there's any reason for BiH that's preparing for European integration to work out the same way. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19018	I thank you, too. I'd only ask my colleagues to take care of the time when we're discussing it. I haven't interrupted anyone yet, people need to explain the amendments but here, we've received all these amendments, we've read. Take care of the weather. Business intervention Mr. Novaković, prepare Adem Huskić. You've given up business intervention. Mr. Adem Huskić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19019	Mr. Chairman, I will respect what you said, only to say that I am a member of the Commission and that what my colleague Novaković said is true. We worked a long time, I mean a lot of hard work, and we did the best we could. In my opinion, at the last session, there was no need to extend this amendment phase, I think it's made it very complicated, but here we are. I would only like to focus on the amendment that I have tabled in the previous phase which is not accepted on the Commission. I think it is important and that this one, we should think about it again. And it's about the amount of alcohol in the blood. According to statistics, 40 people die annually in BiH for driving in an alcoholic state. If a little further analysis is made, you will see that these are mostly young people and that during the year certain periods occur when more deaths are caused by alcoholism. I believe, and I have considered it before and now, that by introducing a ban on drinking, or drinking alcohol for drivers, especially for young people, it would lead to a reduction in the use of alcohol and thus to cause accidents, or the number of deaths. Especially since a ban on the use of alcohol during driving has been imposed for professionals, and for amateurs it is not, which is not for someone else who is not the one, and the participant is in a car accident, it doesn't matter if someone gets hit by a professional or an amateur and a man stays dead, then it doesn't matter who hit him and it doesn't matter whether he was under the influence of alcohol or not. That's why I think it makes sense for the amendment to be adopted, and it's not about the principle of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19020	Thank you very much. I don't have any more reports. Ma'am, we have more reports, Mrs. Sopta Ruža, so Mr. Sead Avdić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19021	Mr. Chairman, thank you, colleagues and colleagues, I really agree with my colleagues and Mr. Huskić and Mr. Novaković that this law has been one law since I was in Parliament, which has been most processed in Parliament and, as far as I have heard from my colleagues who have worked to prepare the law, that he has been in preparation for six years at the ministry. So it's really a law that's been given a lot of attention. 15 Besides all that, I'm guessing he's not even mature enough to be adopted for practical reasons. Here's what I'd say for practical reasons. Namely, to this law immediately at the beginning of his release in the procedure, Mr Vinko Zorić had an amendment relating to 25 or 27 articles. The amendment is one, considered and accepted by the promoter in a slightly modified way. Mr Zorić asked to be inserted into these articles alongside the entity and Brcko District and Canton and then the colleagues proposed that in Article 2 of the BiH institution, entity bodies and bodies of the Brcko District replace the words of Bosnia and Herzegovina's body, entity bodies and cantonal bodies, the bodies of the Brcko District. And that article continued in the further text – the competent authorities. I think it's still in the text of the relevant bodies. I, holding that it will indeed be so prepared to do so, am in today’s report that I do not see and stand. Anyway, there are a lot of things left illogically. We have received, as members of the Commission, I don't know, I don't think the MPs have been cleared of the text, or a text showing what it has changed, what it has added, since there have been many, many amendments. But by that inconsistencies, let’s say, just as an example in five, six articles remain this inconsistencies contrary to Article 2 as proposed by the Proposer, so we have in Article 184. – the driver's license is issued by the relevant entity body and the Brcko District. I really don't think that's a logical solution because that solution has never been so in either state or in the former state of Yugoslavia, so I don't suppose a man from Bihaq from Tuzla, from Širok Brijeg will come for a driver's license in Sarajevo. I think...entity bodies and bodies of the Brcko District, replaced by the words - BiH bodies, entity bodies and cantonal bodies, the bodies of the Brcko District and in this article stood further, in the text of the competent authorities. I think it's in the further text of the relevant bodies. I, holding that it will indeed be so in preparation, that it will be done so, I.... in our report that part I do not see and do not stand, however there are a few, many things left illogical. We've got as members of the commission, I don't know, I don't think the MPs have cleared the text or text where you see what's changed, what's added, since there's been a lot of changes. But so, that illogicality remained, for example, mere example, that inconsistency remained in 5-6 articles in accordance with Article 2 as proposed by the Proposer, so we have in Article 184 a driving licence issued by the relevant entity body and the Brcko District. I really don't think that's a logical solution, because that solution has never been so in either state of Yugoslavia, so I don't suppose a man from Bihaq of Tuzla from Shirok Brijeg will come to Sarajevo for a driver's license. I think it's one illogical thing that would have to be corrected and here, it's not covered by this report. And then I have more objections, but at the end of the day, when it comes to the law's entry into force, I think there's one illogicality that hasn't been affected by the amendment, but it's simply a failure because I might say, too long, there's been a failure to consider this law. For example, Article 251 states – the date of entry into force of this law ceases to apply all the laws that were in force or have been applied as laid down in the BiH territory of matter governed by this law. And this law comes eight days after the announcement. And the following article says -- the relevant authorities will bring the laws in line with this law within 6 months of the date of entry into force of this law. We have six months of vacuum, or something we say stops and then we give it six months to align. And what if that stops, then what do we coordinate? 16 In my article 250, there was a lack of logic, once again, when I went back to reading, it said that driver’s licenses would have to be changed in fact according to this law again. I didn't get the deal, no one's really noticed until now, but I'm really interested in whether we're re-adopting this bill that might be in effect in a month, two days, whether or not we're going to have to change the driver's license again? Here's her, and I'm obliged to mention, I have to my soul unwritten information, but I have information that Croatia, which was one way for us, and by comparing the factor through the commission, has given up on 03. The 5th year gave up the education ministry's relevance for passing driver's exams and returned it to the interior ministry because they said there was a terrible mess. Maybe that's somehow enough reason to say that we're going to return this statement one more time and add it one more time with these illogicalities that have appeared here at the end of this whole procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19022	Thank you very much. Mr. Sead Avdić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19023	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, members of the Council of Ministers, I would also like to say and insist that it would be good for this law to be objectively in line with the principles of the White Paper and that the rules of the European community. If he is contrary to European community rules and is simply not in line, I think it is a job that will not get results in the long term and probably within a year, two days will again be on the basis of the change and amendment of the Law on the basis of the security traffic routes in BiH. It's one thing. Secondly, there's a feeling that this extension of time for the amendment phase didn't make any sense. If we have statements from individual MPs that they accept only one amendment from this group of amendments that wanted to improve the text and simply raise traffic safety on the roads to BiH. Under three, since the two amendments that I have proposed would have an objectively impacted the intensity of traffic, the unblocking of intersections, the unblocking of roads on which a car accident occurred, etc. but given the necessary high level of traffic awareness and everything else, and given this law, which is partly the result of the compromise, there is no need to be a result of compromise, this law is based on professional, professional criteria and on the science and security of traffic, and in this context I absolutely do not see any reason why any specific compromises should be made in terms of simple violation of the rules and principles of the European Community, in terms of security, means the basis of traffic security in any country today in Europe. So, by including all that, I'm giving up on these two amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19024	Thank you very much for that. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. I find Mr. Sead Avdić has given up his amendment. We're moving on with 17 procedures. I've closed the debate. Wait till I say what I have to say, and then you'll get the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19025	...all are called to European standards, everyone says they're right, the pronoun. I've told you three times to pick up. If you support or do not support, spoil this concept of the law or not. This is professional law. Are you behind this that it is consistent with European standards. You've heard that you're being denied here. Say something.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19026	Mr. Raguž Martin is asking for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19027	I apologize to the president. I was really justifiably absent. I don't know if there's been an explicit proposal to extend the debate and a new report. If not, I suggest the basis of more arguments here presented, the fact that this law should be done on a professional, expert level really to be impeccable and I don't see any reason for this proposal, if we are in much more serious and this, more strategically sensitive law, that we do not do the same on this one, because this period of 3 days as it has been, it obviously couldn't absorb the quality of the amendments and principled suggestions. It is not about passing laws, but simply profiling this law in a way that responds to its basic task at BiH level, but also that these solutions in the law do not go far from man. So there's no point in being centralized, centralized, where things need to be done to people in a way that meets standards, I now see from these amendments that a significant part of them is simply not an acceptive commission and here, I really don't think it would be far from the mind that and the Proposer, the Council of Ministers and those who have submitted the amendments and that we do this last comparative analysis with the White Paper, so let's do it within a reasonable time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19028	Thank you. So now we have a second round of debates after the debate is closed. I mean, these are things, I mean, I have to react to this. I, please, have a second round of debates after the debate is closed. I invite you to answer in time and not put me in a position to have a new debate after the debate is concluded. Mr. Selim Bešlagić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19029	Let me just say a few words. I am a member of the commission, and I claim that the Transport and Communications Commission has worked for the last six months on this law. The last Commission president's statement to suggest going with the three-day amendments was illogical but here's what we've accepted. And the commission has met. She discussed the amendments, and since the first reading was adopted as principles, then we said, okay, we can't adopt certain attitudes because that way we would change certain principles but we've considered each amendment, for example. We have come to the conclusion that certain 18 amendments exist, have their own justification and we seem to have agreed and the Commission has just proposed that all means that amendments have been rejected and that we give the proposings the right to defend their amendments, or here before the Commission. And I would like to say that this is how the commission did the job and I suggest that we go according to the amendments, with this note Mr Belkić said, the ministry, the representatives of the ministry should give a specific explanation in which we received answers on the commission and gave answers for ourselves. Maybe they're here and Parliament is enough, so there's no deviation from the White Book. Because you know what this is about? Here, all that comes out, I agree with you that we are not at EU level, but do we have roads at EU level? Are the current laws that are disastrously divided into 13 I would say the group is unique? Is there a police officer in BiH who can stop me in Mostar because I didn't turn on the light and in Tuzla not to stop me because I didn't turn on the light? So, we're just giving an explanation of these laws, going on that with the acceptance and I'd say consensus on the commission. The amandman x that he proposed, it is a fundamental amendment where we have made an oversight in that part, that the funds go where the offence is committed and that means if it was made in a particular canton in RS they go to income means these police. I think it is a correct amendment that could improve the overall state of traffic in BiH at the moment. If we were in Europe, we weren't in Europe. So let us not call on something that Europe does not want. I should wait until I have a single law at BiH level and wait until that time for Evorpa to give me entry and not for me to join the EU. Therefore, I think that the commission has been working correctly, that we have tried to find it in the same elements, that we have considered the amendments and that we have given the proposings the right to defend the amendments and in this sense I would suggest that you, in the presidency, actually act according to what is next, according to our regulation. And that means that now we're going to discuss the amendments, we vote, we adopt or we don't adopt and then let the law fail. I don't mind. But then let's finish one phase, because the commission can't do anything anymore. The amendment, yes. It is said, be careful if there are these disputes in this that it is 30 days from the day of entry and that we are leaving the deadline, it should be immediately here as a proposal, we should adopt these anomalies and throw them out. I think it's possible and that we simply vote, we go so that we don't insult any MPs because he's put forth a lot of effort, and here's the commission who put the effort and you, and I think we can do this job in a very correct way today, whether it goes or goes to waste this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19030	Thank you very much, I'd like to ask you respected colleagues, we have two very clear things here. To refrain from further discussions, things are clear. If we go back to the commission phase, we'll hear the people if they want the Council of Ministers to speak on this subject, to give clarifications because things are completely clear. We have a proposal to reopen the amendment phase. If that proposal goes through, it'll pass, you know what it is, if it doesn't pass, we'll go to a statement on the amendments. Things are clear. I'd ask you to refrain if it's possible beyond discussion. But here, it's not possible. Mr. Živković wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19031	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that the debate is over. However, I want to talk about the proposal that you will put to the vote and it concerns whether the amendment phase will be extended, more specifically whether the commission will be given a new report. I want to talk about it. You can't stop us from saying that. I understand that the law was talked about and that others were talking about the law. Here's what I've been holding out on not talking about the law because I'm a member of the commission, and I think the others should say the same. However, the Commission's position last time was principled, that all amendments were rejected by suggesting that the proposings would defend them here again because the HDZ amendments concerned both the constitutional basis and the very essence of the law. We cannot return the commission to reconsider these amendments because only this House can decide whether the constitutional principle is violated, whether the basic spirit of the law with these amendments has been destroyed. You can't go back to the board. This is what this home can say by bringing down this law and then the law will be new-made because the fact is that the transfer of jurisdiction was made, that driver's licenses are now issued at BiH level, and they were issued at entity level, etc. Who gave permission to do so, by entities, etc. I believe the Council of Ministers has obtained these permits, because six years of real law is not an emergency of this law, etc. I suggest we vote for these amendments. Anyone who does not accept the amendments does not have to accept, as the SNSD did not accept this law in the first reading, probably not in the second reading. We can get him back to the beginning. I suggest we vote against this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19032	Okay. Mr. Moranjkić, please. I'm sorry, Mrs. Miličević really called before you, so you did. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19033	Thank you. I must first say that it means this law, well said Mr Bešlagić, 6 months is in the process and there is really no this, places to suspect that, if there has been a thorough operation in this Parliament, I want to congratulate the Commission on traffic and communication really on one great work and effort and on a few public hearings held, the debate and I must really say, that I have a feeling that here in Parliament often happens, meaning something is a long time ago and you're working on having this one principle, a late-lighting in parliament, that when the job is finished, in the finals, as if they realize what it is and are trying to bring everything back. Well, this is the third text or, the second one is safe, but it seems to me even the third proposal of this law that I get as an MP. So for the first time purified with embedded amendments, the second time means it's fundamentally accessible to this law. I don't mind, but I really don't think there's any need for the representatives of the ministry, who I welcome their presence, to address here. These people were on committees, in debates. We adopted this law in our first reading. What's the reason I'm saying this? If we extend all possible deadlines, get back into one phase, I'm counting on us to lose a year. Gentlemen, in BiH this may be a country of 20 good people, but it is a country of bad roads, bad traffic solutions. It happened to me personally to pay the fines for a reason because I don't see where one line stopped, another, I didn't turn on the lights, I turned off, no man can be smart in some things anymore. If this is a possible solution, I don't think it's ideal and good, let's think about that solution because it doesn't seem like a problem here in regulations and solutions, the problem is in something else. If there is such a problem, let's say we don't need this law, then we should put it on other principles, but I'm afraid we're late in many things and I don't want this law, that Bog gives it to us next year for the tourist season and that we don't get what happens on BiH roads every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19034	It's a replica, isn't it? Please wait if it isn't, wait. Mr. Moranjkić, please. And you have a replica. I'm sorry, I didn't hear. Wait a minute, Mr. Raguž's replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19035	So my replica refers to the latest exhibition, meaning distinguished MP Milićević. It's not about any late-burning. It is about the debate in the amendment phase and the fact that the commission has absolutely rejected the amendments. So, Amendment V, which we have submitted, is a very precise amendment and has no ex post mind, but it is said that the driver's license is issued by the Police Administration in the county or canton, or RS, or in the Brcko District, and that is clear and clear, and I do not see what is disputed and why the commission did not accept it as a correct amendment allowing the passage of the law and does not question any principles of the law. Who says he's questioning the principles? .... that you're violating the Constitution this way, and you're prejudicing certain solutions that don't need to go at all because they're closer to people and they're achieving a fundamental right.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19036	Thank you. Replica, a colleague of Milićević has.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19037	You see, Mr. Raguž, in order for us to understand, I didn't say that I wouldn't support Amendment v.. raditi's about if it's about hitting constitutionality, if the constitutional principle is injured, then that should be said in the debate in the first reading that there was a violation of the constitutional principle and not just in the second reading. Is constitutionality and legality respected, that's what this is about, and I didn't say I wouldn't vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19038	Thank you. A kolega of Moranjkić, then Mrs Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19039	May I stand up, Mr. Chairman? They've sat me down five or six times now.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19040	Go ahead, no problem. This is the democratic chairman. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19041	Okay, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I really expected the legislator to stand up and say some things that were imputed in a certain way, but I still think without arguments, without reason and fully agree with Mr. Bešlagić's discussions, Mr. Živković and Mrs. Milićević, but I can't and I didn't think I was talking, but I can't say a few things. First of all, this is the basis for a better said framework law at the state level and all these things that are potential, are being done by entity laws. So, once again, we rushed into one basic law to insert matter that would be subject to another series of laws and 20 sublegal acts that should come into light and solve these details. This commission, whose first deputy, has really worked for 6 months, not only spent time carrying out some report, this is the only law of 170 laws passed in this mandate that has passed such a sharp procedure since discussions in entities, since discussions in the whole bh public. A law that began with 254 members and included 77 amendments. And these 77 amendments to me as a man worried me to say that we didn't even have a bill worth the attention that came from the Council of Ministers. For each amendment, for each member, the commission's proposal led days of persistent struggle and tried to analyse basic things that should not have suffered this amputation if they were not in line with the White Paper, that they were not in line with the EU, that they were not, so they are not in conformity with anything. And I'm surprised that, without an announcement, the representatives of the pronouns have not stood up, that they're defusing it, and that's why I have to, as a deputy commission, deny it and say it's not true. The law has been completed three times. Please, which is the law in this House three times completed complete with the law-depositor. The law has been active five times in the competent commission. With the commission, again, the exemption has been all the time done by experts from all over BiH, by OHR representatives etc. We went from member to member, and now, I also come to the point of view of what the distinguished colleague Milićevićka said, that it does not stand behind it, but there are some other things, and I suggest that I chair you, that we do not continue the debate, that we do not turn around, that we go from amendments to amendments to the vote and that we see because there is no, I confirm colleagues of Živković's thinking, there are no more committee people, it should either be rejected or given that then a new law is being done, and the more commission after the first reading has nothing to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19042	Thank you. We still have Mrs. Sopta for the second time. Please brief Mrs. Sopta, then Mr. Gligorić will. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19043	I'm sorry to have to answer this one more time, but I'm energically getting all the discussions that went that way that someone's not in favor of a single law when it comes to this matter. We actively participated and corrected the law as much as we could. I believe that there are elements and reasons for the report to return to the commission for a simple reason because I also spoke to the promoters this morning. They said there was an oversight, an oversight was made. For the last time, the tenth amendment we addressed to the commission was the position and position of the promoter that we were well aware of the need to install and the nature of the income. So, if we didn't, we just used one space of the new amendment phase and invested quality amendments. What I just pointed out, in the discussion I pointed out, i.e. that Article 2 when we accepted Mr Zorić's amendments, we defined Article 2 and said in the following text, as well as point. The fact that in the follow-up, or in the report, it was not written and held and that my colleagues would all confirm that this is how we concluded it. And it is not only in the interest of the Hrvat in the Federation not to come to Sarajevo for a driver's license but is the interest of all entities. It's now in the jurisdiction of the canton. It's not even in the RS, we've defined here well what it is right now, that these are public security centres in the RS. I think there's a lot of reasons, and it's not just that case, but there's a few more cases where there's been an oversight. And that's what I'm saying, the proponent agreed that this is so and that that amendment X and how important and I think it's insufficient, and even here we agreed that it's insufficient, that we're part of the matter only of the criminal, those infringing ones, the incomes, and that other incomes should be defined from this law where they belong. Here, I think that's a good reason, and I'm asking that the report be voted on back to the commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19044	All right, thanks, I know what I'm gonna do, so don't tell me what to do, I know, college knows what to do. Don't worry, you'll see we know what to do. Mr. Gligorić, for a moment, please, Mr. Gligorić. We're bringing this to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19045	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we don't need to talk about the importance of the law, because we've really heard a lot of it except to remind myself that, in time, as minister of security of affairs and communication, I started working on it and here, after so many years, we're in a phase to adopt it. I would suggest, given that we heard Mr. Filip Andrić, Mrs. Ruža Sopta and Martin Raguž, personally, I think that Amendment V, which they were talking about, if we're going to see this situation for real, is completely acceptable. I even believe that I share the view that the law should be closer to the citizen, what Mrs. Ruža Sopta said in the final, I share that opinion. But I think we're still close to bringing an end to this and making a positive statement about the law. At your disposal, our Rules of Procedure and I think that someone who insists on this particular might be looking for a break and I think that we could agree realistically and about Amendment v.. taj's my opinion and my sense of opportunity of this atmosphere, so it wouldn't be necessary to go in a revote and rough way of eliminating certain things, so that we could sort out the way out of this situation in this way. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19046	Thank you. He was briefly looking for Mr. Moranjkić, I think, another time. But for a while, since you're on the other side of the line.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19047	In the form of a replica, my esteemed colleague, Sopti. I said it, and probably my colleague didn't hear it. The distribution of material resources is exclusively, and only three times is the subject of entity laws. Therefore, it is not necessary to push it in here at all costs because I do not think it is necessary.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19048	Thank you very much. We still have the Ministry's representative, Mirko Šekara. Who else is answering? Mr. Mišić, Nenad Mišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19049	I only want to be a member of the 184th, since I'm a member of the commission, there's been a misunderstanding here when the text has been cleared. We basically agreed where entities and Brcko District appear here, etc. that it is not written anywhere and put the point, is the driver's license issued by the competent authorities, the point and not to add it further. This means cantons or counties, so this one, and in relation to this amendment V, which is submitted by HDZ, is that it is a mistake here that is entered in Article 184 paragraph 2. So it's on the commission so throughout the text.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19050	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Šekara, assistant minister of transport and traffic. For a pay phone, a stenogram, a microphone.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19051	I want to welcome you all together and stress that we do not need to repeat how much we care about one law that will solve many traffic security issues and, of course, many of the issues that are sort of solved from canton to canton in different ways. I must stress that there have been amendments to all those discussed by the Committee on Lawmaking and the Parliamentary Assembly Committee on several occasions. So it's about repeated amendments. And let me point out right now, that no one has seen how much an amendment has given promotions or that they are worse attitudes. I'll do it when it comes to bicycle kids, etc. Right away, our law provides that when you're 12 years old, you can't have a face less than 12 years old. And this is where we let him get into traffic when he was 10 years old. Well, isn't that absurd? In any case, children need education, attention and all that means safer driving and other participants in traffic. 24 Second, when it comes to the agency, the state agency. Please don't say anywhere that this agency is one at the level of the state, one at the level of the entity, one, the other, the third or the canton. Niko's saying where she's from, who's the sources of funding, who's the staff who's going to edit it all. The law provides for education. The education ministry, which, with co-operation with all the authorities, will edit every area from entity to canton and county. Especially when it comes to training. We keep repeating the same question, how many tests we have in today's conditions. Well, it's not about the law behind us. It's about the law that's in front of us. Mr. Moranjkić said we had 20 regulations. 20 regulations, that's 20 new laws where each area will be individually, especially and precisely arranged. And of course, that leaves the possibility of working with the commission, so we can do all these rules. The work of the Parliamentary Assembly Commission and the law-making committee is the adoption of these 77 amendments, which in any case make it an improvement in the whole law. But we can't keep calling, we haven't applied the White Book, we haven't applied European regulations. Representatives of the OHR and international community definitely participated in the draft law from the beginning to the end. A consultant for 25 countries of Europe, Šveđanin Erik Sven, told the law that the EU principles and the agreement have been applied at the most, saying that those principles that are acceptable in BiH, which can be implemented immediately, have been applied. We don't use something to introduce something into the law, if we can't do it or we don't have the right measures to do it. Next, we have a question about the lecturer. We want to advance the area. We're going two steps forward, and we're going two steps back, and we're always at zero. Why am I saying that? Well, we can't if it's clear to all of us here that for the instructor's driver he needs to have 30 theoretical questions and become a driver instructor, we can't do it through this law, we can't let him teach theoretical training and in any case say that he's a better lecturer than an engineer, even if he was a transporter, a radio in security, and this law says that every person who eats a lecturer, that he'll be licensed and that he has to have that preparation. The traffic engineer has both regulations and traffic security 1 and 2 and traffic law and has learned motorism. Thus, it is far greater than this one instructor who has only passed for practical driving management. He says there's no White Book in place. To determine an institution, then there's a certain institution. At this point, it's an education. Set up a procedure. Well, the rules will regulate everything. In fact, it is the rules to regulate everything that has not been right for us so far and to regulate it on European principles and applicable principles. Next, every lecturer will be licensed. What does that mean? So it means that when we talk about this amendment VI where it says it needs to be trained, it should be complemented, and in any case it should be. But that's what we do on a license. The license isn't for life. It's a five-year license. And of course, every interrogator will succumb to a re-examination and check his knowledge. What I'm saying is, I'm pointing out that these things will be arranged by the rules. Speaking of driving licenses. Please, it's not true that all countries have a test driver's license. There are fewer countries that have a test driver's license, more countries that have applied our principle. And we are not giving up on the European principle. A large number of countries solved it that way. But that's why we said that the driver's been under practically special surveillance for two years, and he's bound to have a 25 sticker for 25 years as a new driver. In those two years, he is exposed to the situation and to be punished for his offences and to be taken away from him points and after all that to take away his driver's license. Which means test driver's license. Someone's gonna give it that way, so they're gonna have two years of test driving, and then later what happens to him. No Niko has any analysis on this matter. I'm in favour of making a program of quality right now and making a quality driver right at the beginning. Speaking of giving a driver's license for a C category at 18. It is also in Croatia. We keep calling out to the environment. And we have followed many regulations that are in our environment because they are similar. The same principle is now under the new law of Croatia as it is with us. And, please, this had to be applied for the reason that we have high school centres that educate such staff and after school, he has to get such a driver's license. And we managed to get B at 18 years of age, not C, but C1 and E1. What does that mean? So that's up to 55,000 pounds. But we can do it again with the program. What? When you lay down B category and C1 you can't lay together. He reports it together, but he lays B, so when he lays B, then he goes to C. And it can be that way... So we can sort out a lot of the rules, and we don't have to slave too much whether or not the amendment has passed. With all due respect, I must say, this is about one of those same amendments to the same man with the use of multiple MPs. When it comes to the agency of this, personnel. And I think the law is actually done so that those principles that are acceptable in BiH are really embedded in it. It keeps calling for the Vienna Convention as if it had become yesterday, the Geneva Convention, which has been since '49. Well, we've all applied it so far. Both the White Paper and the Vienna Convention have been before. All signs, traffic signals, markings, so all in this sense has been done so far and all the newspapers that are possible are built in this law. To be honest, I wouldn't want to detail this, but if I have to, I can give every amendment the right answers. What is advisable, which is Amendment X, and that's on the committee, that he does not compromise, but one obligation.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19052	Whose amendment is X?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19053	Amendment X is from Raguž and Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19054	All right, let's just know that we do.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19055	It's real, but we've been looking at all of these and we've been reading more arguments about them, and this amendment X is really recommended, and I would say on the committee that it's an amendment that doesn't need to be done, but we have to install it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19056	Thank you. Mr. Vinko Zorić wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19057	Well, I've heard here especially from Mr. Misic some things that the commission has missed, that is, that it missed the competent ministry when the rule of purified text was incorporated into this consolidated text something that the commission has verified or adopted. I have personal, negative experiences in these failures. Let's just say, there were a lot of gaps in the publication in the Official Journal, and it's never been fixed. And I am therefore asking that the competent ministry make a consolidated text and that only then we adopt that text. Why am I saying that? I have here a report saying in my report that my amendment was accepted on July 7th. When I look at the consolidated text, then I see that my amendment is not accepted. So, I justifiably support Mrs Sopta and Mr Raguž's proposal to review the report because the report says, in a report we received this morning, that on July 7th, the commission adopted amendments submitted by MPs Adem Huskić, Selim Bešlagić, Momčilo Novaković, Vinko Zorić, I did not have a single amendment. So I don't see that he's accepted. In order for everyone to think about this, and I've seen a lot of people suggest it, I suggest a half-hour break on behalf of the club, so that we talk a little bit more about this so that we don't, the law is really important, and when we spend half a year, we spend another half hour at our clubs or even among clubs.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19058	Okay. So, just stay in your seats for a while. So, I'm here now because no one's answering their words anymore, I'm closing the debate. Please follow me a little bit now. I'm closing the debate, Mrs. Perkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19059	..in the meantime share the answer to Filip Andrić's parliamentary question in line with what we said at the beginning.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19060	Well, all right, that's already said, that'll be done on the second point of the agenda. Thank you. Please, please, this is how things are. We are now in the Amadman phase and, according to what is in the Rules of Procedure, it is not possible to return to the commission stage anymore. However, there is a proposal and I will put that proposal to the vote whether it is. Secondly, secondly, we need to plead if this proposal passes, then you know if it is, what it is. If it does not pass, then it must be declared,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19061	Maybe it's better before the breaks come out.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19062	the amendments should be made known. But there's one thing here that makes me the chairman longer to say what I'm about to say. And that's what concerns me, which is a statement by a member of this committee, Mr. Nenad Mišić, that there is nothing in the commission's report that the commission has practically accepted. And that's what worries me because watch out, I think when we pass the law, we pass the law, I have to say it as chairman here for a stenogram is whether, and the Rules of Procedure, because when we adopt the law, then the Commission's report is an integral part of the text of the law. And we can get in a position to have a confusion about that question later. So is this thing true? Nenad Mišić claims he is, that the commission has agreed on something that is not in the commission's report. Or is the commission's report what we got. We need to know what we're voting on. Can anyone help me answer this question? Lozančić, vice president of the commission, is he?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19063	I am chaired by the last committee as second deputy for the report, but you in the introduction have mostly passed on the conclusions of the commission and we, in this full report, have everything we have accepted. So all the amendments we've accepted and we don't have this, uh, that's accepted as such. Only that it stems from the amendments that we had previously accepted on July 7th, and at the last session we also put past the Rules of Procedure whether, and another conclusion, that today we have these amendments in view of the weight of the amendments at the meeting.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19064	So the report is what it says
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19065	What it says is official..
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19066	Okay, okay, thank you very much. You're authorized in front of the board, please, please. Mr. Mišić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19067	I just want to explain what I said. I'm behind that, and I think, here's all the board members, but that's not what I said wasn't on the last commission. There was a meeting before that three committees and you know where I think the problem is, that's what I'm thinking out loud. In those three sessions, today the three secretaries of the commission have changed. We're on every committee, here we are, and there's a third on the last one I've seen for the first time. Is it so that there may be these technical mistakes, but knows the commission chaired by the chairman of the commission whenever agreed on where the Brcko District is repeated, entities not to add counties, we put an end to it, it is understood that the driver's license from the competent authorities. It's got.....but the commission thinks,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19068	Thank you very much. Mr. Bešlagić and you're a member of the commission, are you? 28
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19069	This is the position which is clear and decadent, so it means where there were... requests, it is said.... and that is the Commission and even representatives of the ministry accepted and it is necessary as a fact to learn in the record and everywhere where entities or the Brcko District or the Federation or entities, the competent authorities, as they will be. If the police reform comes, let it be whatever it wants, now, it belongs to the entities, belongs to the cantons, belongs to the county or belongs to someone. Therefore, I claim that what Mišić said, we have agreed that this position and this point be as Zorić suggested, that it means constitutionally belongs to what is being done today.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19070	Please, nice. So, at the request of the president of the HDZ Club, Mr. Vink Zorić, I'm taking a break. After that, the College, since the break should last until 20, he asked for 30 minutes, up to 20 to 1, we as a College have one international activity and after that we have obligations to rotate the mandate and we can continue the session at 2. So the break will be up to two hours. But it won't just be a break. In this break, I ask the College to support me in this, to ask our Commission for traffic and communication, so these competent commissions, that these issues that have now been raised, that they have been adopted, to write to us finely in the report that people know what they will vote on. And up to two hours to share it here with the MPs. So, the Commission has a job to do this, that what is not stated in the report and what they think is adopted is written and delivered to us that people know what they're going to vote on. I'll see you at 2:00 with this committee's report. Thank you. The president of the HDZ Club asked for a break, and here we will wait for him to enter the O.R., and you have also received a new report from the Commission on Transport and Communications. [[PAUZA]] The report explains definitely the views of our commission and now, after the report, it is clear what the Commission is behind. The Commission has made a report informing us that the above report is being completed, that the Commission's report has been completed so that the new three amendments relating to Article 184(2) are accepted and the second amendment relating to Articles 251 and 253 which are deleted and the third amendment relating to Article 237 where a new Article 237a is added). The break was requested by the president of the HDZ Club, I give him my word, please, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19071	Uh, we discussed this law once again, saw a new report from the Commission, and we have a proposal to reach a conclusion, that the amendment phase is over, that the debate on the law is over, but that this text is cleared, and at the next session, that if MPs see the consolidated text, they think that something is wrong, 29 insist on making a statement on the renewal amendments, so that the Commission's report of 25.7., or that they can give up when they see the consolidated text, and that there is no more debate on the law, the submission of amendments, and that at the next session, we also declare the renewed amendments and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19072	Okay, so here's the suggestion. Mr Zorić suggested that today, practically for technical reasons, we postpone the statement on this law, that there is no new commission phase, that there is no new amendment phase, that what is there is. But, in order for MPs to be able to follow the quality of the text of the law, it is necessary to make clear the text of the law with the amendments definitely accepted by the Commission, to share the text with the MPs, and then to see whether the colleagues who have tabled the amendments remain in the amendment or to give up the amendment and to then, in relation to those amendments which do not give up, vote and only implement the procedure for issuing the law. So no more discussion. The debate is closed. Mr. Ćeman thinks he's been tampering with the word for this proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19073	I don't mind that, I'd just like some sort of clarification. Namely, in the supplemental report, which we just received on the benches, the amendment that this comes in, 79 says that the members of 251 and 253 are deleted and that is the Commission's position. I suppose it will be possible in this time left behind, until the re-examinement of the law, to potentially challenge some of the Commission's amendments adopted, I suppose, it seems to me to be understood. If not, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that it is very questionable, from the aspect of the application of this law, to accept this amendment 79 because, read a little special article 253 and 251, it is in some way a transitional provision which, if this would be accepted, would actually create a vacuum in the legal system. On the contrary, read and you will see. This would mean challenging a legal vacuum. I'm just warning, right now in this sense, and so maybe he wasn't in my proposal to make this clear enough. If possible, I'd like to allow him to read a little differently, but let's analyze all of this. It just seems to me that this is quickly closed, or suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19074	You see, like this, please. Let's just do what they say, stick to the Rules of Procedure and say it like this. We've closed the debate. There's no new debate. There are no new amendments. With me as chairman, so there is if we want to be honest and open to the end, today some colleagues have learned about these three amendments here that have arrived in this new report today. And then it would be fair to allow these three amendments to be made if anyone wants to, but only these three amendments, be careful what the latest report is today. What you've seen so far, what you've got, there's no talk about it, but it would be fair if one of our colleagues since we're here today, right now, got this right now, has some objection to one of these three amendments, to react to amendments. And that's all. Nothing more. And then to say the following, we've concluded the debate. There's no new commission phase. We are going to the next session in which we will only declare ourselves and under four, 30 we are allowing fellow Members in relation to these three amendments, compared to this last report, which is 27.7.2005, if they consider it problematic, that only these three amendments can respond to the amendments. And then the plea will be held at the next session. If it's a gentleman, Kunić asked for a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19075	Thank you, Mr. President. I think of this amendment 80 behind Article 237, a new Article 237a is added, which reads, the revenues resulting from the application of this law belong to the competent authorities. I don't think that's acceptable. What authorities?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19076	No, let the man finish, and I'll react.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19077	Which are, please, tell me. I don't have an article 2.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19078	All right, all right. Mr. Kunić, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19079	Oh, please, those aren't organs, that's why, exactly. Then please, not me, they're not organs. The state is not an organ, an entity is not an organ, to put on competent entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19080	Okay, look at it this way,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19081	I beg you, don't illiterate the laws of this House all the time,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19082	Thank you, Mr. Kunić. Now I have an answer to your discussion. So, like this, and your remark, please nicely, and your remark applies to one of these three amendments. Anything you think needs to be fixed against these three amendments, you can react in writing to the amendment to the amendment. It fits into this. Prepare to vote on this proposal for a conclusion that has four elements. Vote now. So 29 for, 1 against, 4 abstentions, enough entity majority. This conclusion has been accepted. And this is how we ended the fourth item of the agenda. We're going to go to the next, fifth if it's Branka, fifth item of the agenda, 31 Ad.5. Giving prior consent to the appointment of the deputy general auditor of the financial, deputy general auditor of the financial performance of Bosnia and Herzegovina You have received a request from the BiH Presidency for prior consent, for the appointment of the deputy general auditor of the BiH financial institution. For vice-general auditors, the candidates are Munevera Baftić and Dragoljub Kovinčić. On request, you've got the candidate's biographies. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? Mr. Špirić, here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija, then Mr. Gligoriić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19083	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests, I simply cannot be surprised at how the BiH Presidency wants to communicate with the Representative Council and the state parliament. And, of course, I believe that today Parliament will not allow itself to be defeated in what is called a serious business of the state parliament. We have twice voted on the conclusions in which the Bureau warns in the way we elected the Chief Auditor and what we think of the deputies. I've been reading various media shows lately, and I have to say that the way the Presidency works has given rise to this kind of writing about what's called the Office or the State Audit Office. Just remember how much effort we've made or how much effort it's been made to get to a good state audit office and I'm only now of course, and remember the way I've been warned, that the chief state auditor or head of that office is a senior trader. Is it necessary to find out half a year or a year later and that the Bureau warns us and in this way simply enters the selection procedure of those people they think will give them positive audit reports? I ask you, therefore, to ask you fellow parliamentarians, to stay in our conclusions that we have made on two occasions and simply today do not confirm the choice and to send a message to the Presidency that in this way they cannot take action because MPs in the state parliament are serious people. So I won't support this appointment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19084	Thank you. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Have Mr. Tihomir Gligorić prepare, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19085	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, I am the truth, showing you my hand that Mr. Špirić has answered, but I would not like to move the chairman's word, so here's why I am taking the opportunity to use your address to me as my announcement. I wanted to hear other people. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19086	No problem, Mr. Lagumdžija, if you haven't answered your word, I...
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19087	No, I'm not, so I am now that you are,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19088	Here you go, of course, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19089	I am now when you called me. But I must admit, I expected the people of the parliamentary majority to report, the people who chose two-thirds of this presidency. Let me remind you, by two aspects of historical and other circumstances, two of the three members of the presidency came from our ranks, elected by the parliamentary majority. And I don't expect them to deny them and throw them under the feet of the House who chose them as not the people who were equal to us until they came to the Presidency. The Presidency's decisions are a direct step towards the decision of this same House. And that's why I think if this house has a fundamental self-esteem, then this decision will be rejected. But self-refusing would mean that we're both insecure if we don't suggest something else, which this decision will make you, tomorrow by making the decision that we're going to make. So by respecting what we've already concluded, I suggest we reject this first. Secondly, to put in charge of the Council of Ministers to deliver to us as soon as possible a law that has not yet come to the commission stage, as far as I know. Or at least she didn't get it from the board that I'm sitting on. Yeah, but that law I hear from my colleague Beriz says today he's on the Council of Ministers. I don't belong to the parliamentary majority, so I don't know what's going on at the Council of Ministers, but Beriz whispered to me and I'm a man who basically trusts Beriz Belkić. And since he's already on the Council of Ministers today, it means we can expect that law very soon. The question arises, which wasn't on the Council of Ministers before when everyone claims that the law was long gone. The question arises as to what earlier this law was on the Council of Ministers when the parliament concluded what it concluded several months ago, when the Council of Ministers should have done so much earlier. But since the Council of Ministers has practically not been meeting for months, I think it is a great success that this law is before them today. That is why I, Mr. Chairman, would suggest that by refusing this, we conclude that all the institutions of the Parliamentary Assembly, I do not apologize to my colleague Kunić, so the Parliamentary Assembly and all its committees and the competent authorities, to speed up the procedure by which this law would become a law that has been issued in the Official Journal as soon as possible and that the call for competition and appointment of auditors under the law be carried out under this law. That alone would restore as much dignity and trust in BiH institutions. This would also increase the responsibility of the Presidency, which shows not only irresponsibility but also shows that it believes that it is above this House of Representatives above Parliament, and that would ultimately restore some small dignity to this House of Representatives. 33 I have no intention of talking about what the public has already sent to the public, to treat this as a retribution of the Presidency to people who have shown that the Presidency has acted so that in every normal country this presidency would be the past. But I don't want to open those discussions to turn away from the right subject. The real subject is the appointment of an auditor. And this appointment of a deputy general auditor would mean a further Sunday of institutions and, normally, I want a listing.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19090	Thank you, Mr. Gligorić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19091	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear guests, before I begin, I would like to congratulate all of you on July 27th, the Day of Uprising of BiH to the citizens, for all of us who so so feel sorry for each other, right? Because today I was supposed to speak in Majevica, but the state parliament when it sits, that's the most important thing to me. Okay, I'm joining what Professor Špirić and Professor Lagumdžija said. In order to preserve the dignity of this Parliament, and we have concluded that we need to go into amendments and supplement the Law on Auditors, then remain existing auditors, vice auditors until further notice is given, until a contest is called to be provided for in these amendments and amendments to the Law. My sources from your ranks are telling me, because Mr. Lagumdžija said the law should be passed, Mr. Lgumdžija, they've already put the law on the Council of Ministers today and got a positive light. That's better and faster. So there is no obstacle to it coming to the commission and at the next session, we end it and at the same time these people who, as Parliament has decided, are going to do their job. So let them report to the competition later if they want to keep working. The presidency as an executive body is not above the BiH Parliament. He must be bound by our decision and they must respect it. Unless they respect it, they break the Constitution and at the same time show that they have some kind of human policy that can be characterized as preparations for elections to bring listeners into the audit house to finance a political campaign in this year and next from public income. Don't you Mr. Novaković defend them, nothing, it's my right to think so. Because they've just offered people who've been auditing this year in the Presidency, and they've settled and offered them functions, and they've done it, and in return, they've done a little moving in the audit, and for the first time, the proposal has been concluded and without the current meaning of the auditor, the deputy auditor. Which wasn't practice before. All that points to what I was talking about. I am really surprised that the Presidency has had such strength, courage, impudence to come out with this, since we as Parliament are in charge of such an independent institution and cannot control it according to INTO SAI standards, any executive authority. Of course, every executive wants to control such an institution and there's no problem. But that is why Parliament and parliamentary control are there to ensure, above all, that they work uninterruptedly and without any influence, including the influence of the executive authority because in this way, it has appeared in the most negative or most drastic form. 34 I propose that we stay with our decision, which is binding on the BiH Presidency, and we cannot confirm their proposal to appoint new members, and that Dragan Kulina and Samir Mušović remain in office until the amendments and addition of the Law on Auditors, as we have decided at one of our sessions. If my dear gentlemen and my fellow MPs from the assembly majority, you want to accept the opinion, the ultimatum, the dictatorship or I don't know how to call from the Presidency and make the opposite decision, I suggest that we consider and, in that case, disband the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly because it is truly immaterial, it has no intention of working anymore if the BiH Presidency rises above it. And, I mean, it's not an abnormal thing either, in order for us to keep our dignity better and so on, but so we don't get to that position that we're disbanding ourselves, it would be easier to eliminate the presidency's proposal, since they obviously have party intentions in this case and there can be no party people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19092	Mr. Vinko Zorić had the need to correct the wrong allegations. Well, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19093	Yes, I've heard from my colleague that he congratulated on July 27th whether, and it was titled BiH's uprising. I was taught at school that it was the uprising of the people and the ethnicity of BiH without BiH's uprising.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19094	Mr. Momčilo Novaković has a word, a discussion, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19095	Mr. Chairman, my colleagues, I must say, whenever I decide to do something, it's only then that someone is making it more complicated for me. Well, this one, and this one, I decide to keep my dignity at home, and then my colleagues confuse me so I can vote for this. And I was determined to be against it. So here, now I'm confused, so I don't know if I'm above the presidency or if he's a member of the presidency above me, I don't know if I can order him or he can tell me, I don't even know who the executive is anymore, or who he's elected, and whenever there's something simple to say, we use it in some big words, I guess we just agree to give it to meaning and more than it deserves. I think Mr. Gligorić could have said what he wanted to say. He could simply say that he supports the conclusions that he says to Professor Špirić and Professor Lagumdžija and thus finish his presentation. And I would stand up and say afterwards that I support Tihomir Gligorić. I am now in a position not to support any of this discussion and to support the proposal, to maintain the dignity of this House by warning the Presidency to take care of our conclusions. Not that it is a duty to execute or not to execute them, but to take care of their proposals. The only way to do this, unfortunately we are brought into this situation, is not to accept the presidency's proposal and thus make it absolutely clear that not our dissatisfaction with the proposal, not our dissatisfaction with personal solutions, because I don't even know these people, but our dissatisfaction with the relations between the Presidency and the House of Representatives. 35 So with relations between what we do and what the Presidency did afterwards. In this way and to this level, I would be developing this discussion. I wouldn't go through party lines either, I wouldn't go by any insinuations about who's auditing, who's been auditing, who's going to be auditing for tomorrow, who's going to be auditing for whom, etc. Is better to pay someone after or before, etc. So, as far as the SDS Club is concerned, we're not voting for this proposal, we're actually expressing our disagreement with the way it's done or the way it works, or with the relationship, whatever you want to do with the House of Representatives' conclusions. And that's why we're not voting for this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19096	Okay. Who else wants to talk? Who else wants to talk? Okay. Dear colleagues and colleagues, then for the debate, we are therefore in the next situation, to have Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's proposal, to reject this presidency proposal and to conclude that we are asking the Council of Ministers to deliver the law to parliamentary procedure as soon as possible and to make appointments under this new law. That's how I understood you, Mr. Lagumdžija, is it? Yes, it is. We have a proposal from Mr Gligorić that former deputy general auditors function until the election of new ones, with the right to apply for the designated positions. And to remain in our decision by staying until the amendment and addition of the Financial Business Audit Act to the BiH institutions. Please, Mr. Gligorić, it is. And, we have a proposal for this, actually, Mr. Momčilo Novaković's position, that they won't vote, his club won't vote to give this consent to these persons, two candidates. Not because they have something against these people, but because they want to respect the presidency's position, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's position on the issue. Summing up, therefore, all this debate, I can now put these proposals individually to the vote and individually. So obviously, according to what we have so far, at least we've heard, that we're in one situation where we need to look for a way out of this situation. And I think that the only solution then is to see what you think about it, that we should call on the conclusions of the Parliamentary House of BiH which we have adopted so far. I will remind you that so far we have adopted two conclusions on this subject. One was adopted during the presidency of a colleague, Raguž, and one was adopted while I was chairman. I remember both conclusions and someone fix me if I'm wrong. The first conclusion was adopted when we gave consent, a previous agreement for the appointment of a general auditor, the BiH Institutions Audit Office. On that occasion, we gave consent to the appointment of an existing state auditor and then we said two more things with the granting of that consent. And these two things say, so this is the conclusion that was adopted at which session of Brano? The 41st session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, which was held, only to see the date, July 14th, so the 41st session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, is the conclusion, 36, that the following conclusion was adopted with agreement. So, after the discussion, the House agreed to the BiH presidency's decision to determine Milenko Šega, as candidate for the BiH Financial Audit Office's general auditor, with the consent of the following conclusion. First, the term of office of the auditor-general shall continue until the current term of office. It therefore meant that the term of office of the auditor-general lasted until the end of the term of office held by the former auditor-general, who resigned, and that was, therefore, until this time period did so. It's been a year since it was. And, second conclusion, the appointed candidate, so the one for which we have given our consent, has the right to participate in a competition for the election of a general auditor for the next term in accordance with the law. So that's the conclusion this home was adopted. In view of this matter, we also adopted another conclusion at a session that, where is that conclusion from the 57th session? At the 57th session, the House of Representatives, related to this matter, and this conclusion is, previously given consent to the appointment of the Auditor-General and the Vice-General, shall be valid until a new appointment. The BiH Council of Ministers is asked to submit a proposal for a new law on the revision of BiH institutions without delay in the parliamentary procedure. That's it, I didn't hear you. So we have this second conclusion. Now, the way things are. When it comes to deputy auditors, so to be completely open, I will say that here at the pay phone they gave, under the current law, the current law to the deputy general auditors has expired five years' term of office. We don't have a new law right now. The new law is in the process of the Council of Ministers, and according to the decisions of the law, which I have here in some way, existing deputy auditors if the law is adopted, their term of office is extended for another two years until the end of the total term of seven years, no, no, these are the solutions in this text of the law here. Please, please nice, I'm just saying what it says here. Therefore, according to the current law, the current deputy general auditor has expired. And the Bureau entered the procedure by respecting the existing law of appointment of the deputy general auditor. This is where our conclusion is now being raised when it comes to the general auditor, not the deputies, because we have said that we are giving consent to the auditor-general for a period of practically one year until the end of the term of office of the former auditor-general who resigned, and today here in Parliament, we do not have any position of the Presidency, nor do we have an answer to our parliamentary conclusion. That's why I think it would be best if we didn't actually vote on these candidates today, it wouldn't be a step forward if the specific names, I want to say that here, it wouldn't be correct if the specific names were being broken down for the procedural reasons here in Parliament. And that's what I want to say here, and that's why I think it would be best for us to return the BiH presidency to the proposal of these candidates so that we don't tear down those names here in Parliament, and warn of our conclusions. And I think, I think it would be in this situation the correctest way out and if you insist on something else, I will, of course, put it to a vote. Every proposal will come to a vote. Here, I'm opening a debate over all these conclusions. Gosdpodin Lagumdžija, here you go, Mr. Novaković. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19097	Mr Džaferović, that with this, with this analysis, you went before the Presidency earlier as the chairman of Parliament or the people who led to this, it was much simpler. First, I withdraw my proposal to repel these people. I'm withdrawing that proposal because I don't want to get into a situation where you practically don't accept my proposal, so you're interpreting it your way tomorrow. I am quite pleased with what I heard from Mr. Novaković. Namely, I think that you are in business duty that the memo we received from the Bureau is on the agenda, the debate has begun, the debate is practically closed. All that's left is a vote. We can't right now, find me a business foothold, so we can refuse to vote on the legitimate presidency proposal. If the gentlemen of the Bureau wanted to come here, where they'd belong today if they had come, when they were doing something like this, and let the Presidency say, pulls this proposal. That's just fine, then. They see they've made a mistake and they're pulling back. But we can't now that you've quite rightly counted that you don't have a majority, for this presidency proposal, you'd like us to withdraw their embarrassment. No, no. First of all, they don't delegate these people who are in the proposal, they have nothing to do with it. They can compete tomorrow. And I believe they're going to compete because they have a desire to be and I don't even doubt that they're this, I have no reason to think that among these candidates there might be someone better than the existing people on the audit team. I have no reason to even doubt their quality. This has nothing to do with those two people. This has nothing to do with two or three people who are now general auditors and deputies. They can all compete tomorrow. And now you're telling us that you have before you a bill of Council of Ministers, and that we are now refering to that bill of law, and I suppose we know well what the laws sent here by the Council of Ministers look like. They often in important things do not resemble what this home adopts. In other words, I suggest we end this today. So, I withdraw my proposal, I think we should also not think that we should vote on my proposal first, on that second proposal, to speed up the procedure. Because if you know how to adopt these as deputy auditors, then my second proposal is pointless. So, first we have to vote on what came to us from the presidency, so if that works, the other proposals are pointless. If that doesn't work out, then I think we should galsagle on the proposals that are made here, including a proposal to speed it up together and we don't need to re-interpret our conclusions. Because if the presidency wanted to listen to the interpretation of our conclusions, it wouldn't have done what it did now. And therefore, I would ask you, since a practical debate has been concluded, since we are only talking about conclusions now, to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to vote nicely in line with what we have before us. And I repeat once again, in which case I will naturally withdraw my proposal if, to bring down the Presidency, it will be enough for me to vote on it, and I have expressed my position. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19098	Thank you very much. Mr. Sead Avdić, please. Mr. Novaković, I apologize to Novaković, I'm sorry, so Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19099	Gentlemen Chairman, as I understand it, Mr Lagumdžija, he withdrew his proposal in favour of my proposal, is that right?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19100	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19101	I thank Mr. Lagumdžija. And I withdraw my proposal in favour of Mr. Džaferović's proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19102	Okay. The word is Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19103	Mr. Džaferović, as they say, pulled him back myself, didn't pull back. You, according to the Rules of Procedure, are required to give us a vote on the presidency's proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19104	Idati, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19105	So, you owe it to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19106	Mr. Lagumdžija, there's no dispute, I mean none
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19107	Since you will put the presidency to the vote, then I will declare after that vote whether I will withdraw my proposal or not, as Novaković has already withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19108	Mr. Lagumdžija, thank you. So, look, I'm just trying to get out of this situation. So, things are not controversial, things should certainly be returned to the Presidency, I mean this, about our parliamentary conclusions. I'm just trying to find a way out of this situation. And in some ways the meaning of my 39 proposal is that in some way, we don't hurt the people who are here in the proposal. However, Mr Lagumdžija, if you insist, I am obliged, no, I do not have a warning and a secretary, I am taking care of this, and I am obliged, of course, to put the Presidency's proposal on a plea, if Parliament cannot achieve this, consensus, to get out of this situation in this way. I will, of course, put it to a vote, so you'll all have a chance to say, what you have on everything, I think no problem is, please, and any other conclusion. Sead Avdić asked for a word, thank you, Martina.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19109	...oversmarting with... one of these tolerated atmospheres. I don't think we have much maneuver space here. So, the House of Representatives cannot give prior consent to the appointment, the sole vice-general auditor for the reason that the Presidency's decision is contrary to the conclusion of the House of Representatives which it has made significantly earlier, on this issue and it all begins and ends. I think that in this context we can simply end this discussion, not giving in to personal solutions or any simple thing else, any other appointment. So we cannot give prior consent to the appointment of the auditors because the Presidency's decision is contrary to the position of Parliament that was previously defined on this issue. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19110	So for the sake of good-bye, I suggest we return to the Presidency, that the Presidency, then, return to the Presidency, not to say anything about a concrete proposal. That is why I have also suggested that the Bureau take into account Parliament's conclusions, which is why I have proposed it. However, there is insistence here to vote today on the presidency's proposal and these are legitimate insistences. I have to put it to a vote. I have to tell you about it, let's see. Here you go, Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19111	It is quite clear here that the Presidency has delivered the motion for a decision to us and is seeking prior consent. We cannot give prior consent to the Presidency's decision for this reason we spoke of, quite clearly. And we vote by a decision that is contrary to the position of the House of Representatives and we must plead,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19112	What are we voting on, Seade?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19113	...the decisions, just like that,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19114	So, Sead, what are we voting on then?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19115	We're voting on a decision that's contrary to our position. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19116	Vocabulary About Credential Names
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19117	No, no, but personal solutions don't matter, so Mr. Chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19118	But they are contained in the decision
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19119	Never mind, personal solutions don't matter to us. It is important to make a decision trying to get the Presidency to cancel Parliament's conclusion and position. It doesn't matter personal solutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19120	All right, all right. Mr. Ćeman asked for a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19121	I want to get involved in this part of the debate for a little while. I mean, this is how I understand it. We have come to a conclusion on this issue earlier. In previous discussions, it has been said that respect for this conclusion is on the line of keeping the affirmation of the dignity of this home. We have a concrete proposal from the competent authority of the Bureau for the appointment, i.e. the prior consent of the deputy auditor. As a body, as a body that participates in a procedure of appointment at a certain stage, we have noticed, therefore, that either no account has been kept or that conclusion has been forgotten. It's possible both. Here's why I don't prejudge. We noticed, then, that the husband wasn't in charge of it. In my view, at this stage, just because the point of keeping this house's dignity is not to be held accountable today, because I understand the Rules of Procedure as well, is to make a statement on the correct names until we clear up the matter, whether or not the Presidency has actually taken account of it, whether it has consciously chosen to ignore that conclusion, or whether that conclusion is a little cartoon, perhaps in someone's drawer. In order to remove this dilemma in any way, if it exists, it is perfectly normal to postpone the decision and remind the Presidency of that conclusion and to declare at the next session, if necessary, personal solutions. And I'm not talking here about personal solutions, which can be acceptable, unacceptable, good, less good, those that are now better or worse, etc. So we're talking procedural stuff. Naturally, at this point, the problem is that existing auditors, or their deputies, have expired their mandate, but that is no reason for us to clear up this one dilemma, and I say it is constantly in the context of defending the dignity of this home until we clear it up. So, I conclude, I don't think we have to make a statement today about confirmation, but simply what you're proposing, I think it's a perfectly correct proposal to conclude. Thank you very much. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19122	Thank you, Mr. Čeman. So, esteemed colleagues, we're moving on to a plea. So this is how I propose this conclusion, which I have proposed, with which another member of the College agrees. Please, please, be prepared, it's going in order. We have a proposal from Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija who reads, say it now, stand up and say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19123	First, Mr. Chairman, before my proposal, you have a proposal from the Presidency. And as far as I know, the presidency proposal came first. Because if he hadn't come to me, we wouldn't have this on the agenda. So, I have no intention of pushing the presidency into the priorities with the proposals. I wouldn't have had my proposal if I hadn't seen this proposal. Therefore, please, you are required to put the Bureau's first motion to the vote. And when we look at the presidency's proposal, then we can go on and so on and so on with your proposal that you are ultimately as chairman, which I see Mr. Martin agreeing with. All right, I don't mind, but first you need to go with the presidency proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19124	Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19125	The college on the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, but indeed this one, each other's conclusions rule out. And I guess it's logical that we first declare those conclusions that, in some ways, their vote excludes other conclusions. And to vote now on the conclusion, i.e. the presidency's proposal, does not exclude all other conclusions. But the conclusion of Mr. Lagumdžija, whom he gave up on such a voluntary basis, excludes the conclusion, a proposal for the presidency's conclusion. So, I suggest that there be no order means, the conclusion of the criteria for suggesting conclusions, but this principle that I was talking about. As far as I'm concerned, I've said, Mr. Lagumdžija's suggestions are acceptable to me because they've already been contained in our conclusions since before. So we have a request from earlier to pass the law. It's nothing new. We have, from earlier on, everything Mr. Lagumdžija said was actually already contained in the conclusions he read by the chairman a few minutes ago. So they're not controversial to me, but after that there's no turning this over to the presidency, so this is, the thing we're done with with these conclusions. I'm closer to the variants, so I want to make a statement, and I'm closer to the variant for the sake of these people's dignity here, and we can't avoid the fact that we voted on them, even though we don't want to. Look, we don't want to vote on names, but we also voted on them if we pleaded on the presidency's proposal, we voted on them. I wish we didn't say anything about them because I don't know any of these people and I don't doubt their 42 expertise at all. I don't know who these people are, I can't say they're ready and able to do this job or not. I can't say that. And it's not my not trusting the Presidency in that sense and in that direction. And that's why I think it's a much better option, to tell the Presidency by returning this presidency, that we should actually warn the Presidency of this. I'm closer to that variant and I'd like to say first about it and if it doesn't, of course, I'll also support Mr. Lagumdžija's conclusions, because they're on to what I suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19126	gligorić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19127	We are now talking about these proposals, and I also think that we should say first about the Presidency's proposal. It was our conclusion, but if we are looking for an honorable way out for the Presidency here, given that it has only been brought into trouble, then in that case, I can understand the proposal by Mr Džaferović, who is looking for a panic exit for the Presidency, that Parliament, too, in order to remain consistent with its principle, must refuse. It's completely understandable. And then the whole procedure they took on ends, that's perfectly clear. I propose that we declare first the Presidency's decision as a decision, a number and a date, not entering into the names of these people and then at the same time going with the conclusions that were proposed to this Parliament after the presidency's proposal. And I think it's a business thing to do, and if someone wants to put the final conclusion on you, Mr. Džaferović, to begin with, and then it's really quite logical that Mr. Novaković talks, everything else is immaterial, so I'm going to think about my proposal if the vote is in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19128	You'll get your word. Mr. Gligorić, I'd like to ask you, I think you're a little controlled when you're discussing. I don't know what you've panickingly noticed in my performance here. I am the Chairman of the House and I am obliged to point to all aspects of a particular question and everything I have done, I am working with that goal and my position is therefore absolutely clear. My position is clear, I beg you, that I will not repay you in the way you deserve, that you will not insult me while I lead this session. Mr. Belkić has the word, please, you will get the word, here comes Mr. Belkić. Here's your replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19129	When I was saying that, I had this in mind. You're really in trouble. Both between the Presidency and Parliament. If we meet them, the way you propose, you, as chairman of this House, have humiliated this parliament. Here, that's how I see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19130	You're actually in trouble, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19131	I don't,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19132	You're not listening, you're not following. You see, I said myself that we should take care of Parliament's conclusion and read you those conclusions, remind you of everything, and then you tell me what you're saying.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19133	Then we'll explicitly,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19134	Then you're in trouble, not me. I thank you. Here you go, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19135	Thank you very much. So we have calculated really that there will be no need to discuss this much and in some way prove our commitment to our own conclusions. It was clear at least from the discussion that there were no MPs who did not insist in some way, not a matter of our conclusion. So I don't see what a particular problem is, except in how and in what way, finally draw attention to the Presidency or allow them to respect our conclusions. In my opinion, the same thing or return this request to them for prior consent with an explanation and a reminder of our conclusion, that we have conditioned the appointment and the chief auditor by equating the duration of the term of office, etc. or do not vote previous consent. I really don't see why we're wasting our time on this. So either it's exactly the same or we return the request for prior consent and say, we don't want to give you any prior consent before we resolve the question of our earlier conclusion or break this conclusion. I really do chair, I don't see what the difference is. I beg you as a colleague, that so, the point is, let's warn the Presidency to draw attention to ourselves. I join those who strive to protect the names of the proposed people.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19136	Yeah?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19137	To protect the personal
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19138	Yeah, well, that's what I wanted, too, actually. Watch this one, thank you, Mr. Belkić. You see, so I don't think we're different, actually all the goals are to protect the names of people who are neither guilty nor debtor here. I suggest, we put this on, so it'll definitely be on the vote. 44 I think that from this situation, therefore, here the College actually thinks in this composition that it is, that a conclusion that would say that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is not in a position to discuss and give prior consent to the appointment of the deputy auditor, until the question of earlier conclusions of the BiH Parliament Assembly House of Representatives has been resolved, in fact, reconciled all of this. And, if you agree, I'm putting this to a vote. Mr. Lagumdžija here, wait, we'll put it on.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19139	Mr. Chairman, there's nothing to resolve our previous conclusion. People are doing the opposite of him. I only accept it, it is in line with this proposal, but please, just put on another one, or until the adoption of the Audit Act. Please, because what you just said will not solve anything. Clearly, clearly, or we are not ready, Look, and this conclusion is pointless, there's nothing to resolve in accordance with our conclusions, but according to our conclusions, nothing really resolves until the new law is passed. Great.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19141	Okay. So,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19142	I think, Mr. Chairman, since we are experts in bureaucratizing language here, nothing will be resolved here until the new law is passed. So this is all a story for small children, until the law is passed or you get a parliamentary majority to adopt the conclusion of the Presidency that is contrary to our, or your conclusion. So, I just insist on being the new law,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19143	Please, I'm going to put your motion to a vote, so I'm going to put your proposal to the vote. So it's important for me to have consent here, like this. So there's consent, wait, Mr. Lagumdžija, let me finish. So, the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, we adopt a conclusion. The Bible’s Viewpoint, 1 / 1 The Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives finds, therefore, that it finds that the conditions are not met so that it can give its consent, the previous agreement for the appointment of the deputy auditor until the earlier conclusions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives are respected. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 45-30 for, no, two abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. This is how we ended this agenda point. Moving to the sixth item of the agenda, that's Ad.6. A report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institution, BiH's 2004 international commitments, submitted a report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' 2004 international commitments on 18 July 2005. You've got the material. The Commission for Finance and Budget is in charge, the report was under review at yesterday's session. You've received a report from the committee responsible. The Commission supported the Budget Implementation Report. I'm opening a dispersion. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19144	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. The report on the implementation of the institutions' budget and international commitments for 2004, as it is before us, shows only that we have indicators showing that in 2004 the planning of budgets and the realisation of what capital projects were for this country were not realised. I'll be precise, Mr. Chairman. I believe that this report should not be adopted because just a few examples, you can see in this report, that 63 million marks were allocated to the VC corridor in 2004. You can also see that 5 million were spent on project documentation that was accused by the Council of Ministers at the beginning of the year to say stupid things, that this paperwork was not necessary at all, and they finally made it worth 5 million dollars. And the remaining 58 million, for the VC corridor in 2004, remained in the accounts of entity governments and, with no insight into the documentation, but the state of the field, was known to have been built somewhere between 0 and 0 meters, the centimeters of the atuo-roads in BiH, as well as on the VC corridor in 2004. So we see that in last year, 58 million were not used for corridor VC that existed, standing at their disposal. We also see here that the budget rebalancing was made at the end of the year, so that audit reports could be made of makeup, that it was also made ominous of the cigs and very often completely imprecise. An example works. In the last year, a total of 210 million marks were planned in the budget, the rebalance found that one 50 million could be problematic, and then 50 million were dried up by rebalancing. We had 260 million, and in the end, we see from the report that you have unnecessarily amnested 50 million people, only 20 million more spent. Namely, they spent 230. When it comes to personal incomes and employee receipts, 126 million are planned in 2004, a panic-seeking rebalance for 153 million, and now we see that 142 million has been spent. We can also see that this facility next to us, which the Grk recently decided to finally launch from a dead end, that it was planned for 2 million last year, spent 200 thousand, transferred from the previous year to a million, and now we see that there are 2.8 million left in the account for the facility already here for two years and that the facility has not yet begun to be created until the Grk have come to do so. How much this total 46 means a delay in the facility itself and unloaded how much delay it means, or unnecessaryly extended rent payments in other places which would now be amnested whether, since payment, this country should not specifically speak. You can also see that that shameful request of 40,000 marks for the development of domestic production and its stimulation, I read to you the item you adopted, 40,000 marks in 2004 is planned for the development of domestic production and stimulation. We see in the report that these 40,000 marks were really unnecessary, because for the development of domestic production and stimulation, 0 marks were spent in 2004, so even those 40,000, it seems that my criticism is... 40,000 people got the wrong idea, so he didn't spend that 40 grand, he saw the meaning so the plan to enter the VTO was 200 thousand marks, to spend in 2004 and to make 75,000 marks. Look at you, too, that in the Veterinary Office, which is our wound cancer, planned with a budget of 909 thousand, the rebalance requires an additional 150 grand, so that in the end, only 750 thousand are spent, and then we wonder why people haven't established themselves. The animal tagging agency, it's that animal CIPS that we're getting anything mixed and introduced as much as we have meat, and it's obvious that that animal tag agency has spent about 60% of the resources in which the rebalance requires additional funds, so we can see that it's not even realized what they had initially. We also see that the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, 8 million had, rebalanced another 300,000, got 8 million and 300,000, and eventually spent 4 and 800, and it's no problem that one ministry spent less, the problem is that instead of 2.5 million, as planned for the Return Fund, it was spent instead of 2.5 million 50 grand was spent. So, for the return, we gave them 2.5 million, they spent 50 grand, because there's probably no problem with the returnees. We also see that 350,000 marks are required for the prevention and protection of asylum seekers. Nothing's been spent. We see the same thing, and even this HIV Commission, translated into our language on AIDS, and it's rebalanced to get money, which it got, and only half of what we've given them, and so on. In other words, this report actually shows what you heard, just as an illustration. And that's why I think, well, I don't want to read you any further, that's why. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19145	Thank you very much. The minister asked for a word, beware, the minister has an advantage in the Rules of Procedure we must give the word to the minister. Minister, unless you're going to hear from the hearing until the end so you can call back later. You can, if you ask for a word, you have the Minister's word, of course. Minister, Mrs. Marić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19146	I welcome you all, and I'm certainly not careful enough here when you answer your word. Mr. Džaferović doesn't say the agenda point, and we already have this competition, and I have to have this application key, and it's a bit of a bother right now. So we submit to you the 2004 report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' 2004 budget, which is set out in the way it is specified in Article 22. Law on the financing of BiH institutions. So, we are processing topics in a way that in the 47th part of the report we show data relating to the implementation of the 2004 budget of institutions and in the second part we are talking about the service of external debt of institutions in 2004. Metrologically worked out, we begin with the revenue of the institution financing budget, individually listing which types of income, as achieved and then, within these types of income, meaning, or planned, that this assessment was very good and that these revenues were very satisfactory. Special types of income that are not classical types of income, related to the original types of income related to the financing of institutions in 2004, since we still financed through the transfer of funds from entities in that year. We have on page 7 in point 2 where we have the financing of institutions that were set up at the state level in 2004 which meant last year's budget was brought in a way that there was that classic budget and that there were annexes through which we involved the Ministry of Defence in the budget and not doing rebalancing, included the Intelligence Security Service and did not do the rebalancing, and included transfers and did no rebalancing. Funding of the Return Fund established as a special institution at Council of Ministers level has its own budget and we have today launched a ratification procedure by providing new funds from the Council of Europe Bank for the financing of returns to the country. The funds on the basis of charges for the use of GSM were allocated in the manner of the Council of Ministers' decision, and the Council of Ministers paid 5.1 million in last year for the production of this study and 30 million for the payment of the same study in this year. Furthermore, we continue with the expenditures of the institutions' budgets and list which are individually speaking about types of expenditure and specifically specify the use of the budget reserves, which is our obligation under the law. In the context of this report on page 11, we are showing the state of budgetary balance, which in fact accounts for surplus income and we are talking about how we schedule it, what they carry out next year, and how the budget for last year was actually implemented, because we included new institutions through the financing of the 2004 budget, means no rebalancing through the annex approved by this Parliament. The table review refers to Table 1. These are revenues by sources with graphic representation of the structure, expenditure by economic categories showing by species how many fees and other types of costs are paid per cent. We have a budget user revenue schedule where it can really be seen that some budget users have withdrawn their resources 100%, others who have been in an effort over the year have had the means available for our European path, related to our intensities, and for stabilising the country's situation in terms of, here and veterinary and animal labelling, and that the outpost of these agencies has been going the way it has been going, that they are now very well and that it means, precisely thanks to the way the 2004 funding is being financed, in 2005 they showed actually a good way of functioning. Table 4 shows the schedule of the 2004 surplus income, and we end up with the expenditure scales per individual budget users according to the economic classification. The most important oatmeal that had been praised earlier in the reports is Table 5, an overview of the staff in the institutions in 2004, and the dynamics that fit into the 48 implementation of the budget would actually be a very important topic for talking, because in this way really because we booked according to the contract that we had, 2.6 million to build this building that is next to us, in the way it was agreed, that 9 million Euros, this part of our own, which is exactly how much they've given this year, means 13.5 million and we're starting, here's the tender and everything else, and we're starting to reconstruct, as it's already called this building next to us. In this second section of the service of external debt, we are talking about the fact that in the last year we planned to perform external debt service through one state-level account and entities were paying their tranches, paying that rate, we were just paying it for them, and it was planned to pay 268.6 million km. We paid off the $81 rate, 41% of that amount, and 226.7 million due to the dollar exchange rate, and the entities were able to deploy 41 million to other needs, expenditures they otherwise have. So the creditors are listed all to whom this applies and are ultimately monitored according to the available resources in other external debt service accounts. There are also a few specific contracts and a return to these centralised debt return accounts, and data on the executive service of external debt obligations for the period last year, according to all creditors, indicate how much the Federation has served in last year, 141.3 million and RS 75, and of how much interest it is. In the last table, we have data on the execution of liabilities based on external debt compared to the plan, and here we see this savings, you see the principal and interest schedule, you see the creditors and everything else. So, I think the report was still made in time. It is actually the basis for creating the current 2006 budget, namely budget planning for the next 3 years, which we have already implemented in principle and referred to the Council of Ministers for 3 years we have referred to the Council of Ministers. This execution is actually getting closer and closer to these requirements of the law. After the law has been passed to us, the goal of making methodologically the most transparent possible view of the execution is to extract data from the operating system about how the vault is run and, of course, all the budget users owe their own indicators for the new year, it's done 3-4 months, it really has a lot of work to do. So you have to do all this accountingly, fill out those forms that we submit and then make this one report to Parliament. In the meantime, we've made a report on the execution in three months this year and adopted by the Council of Ministers and now we're working in six months and we think we're on deadlines, so we're somewhere here and we've got proper preparations. We also sent requests for budget users to fill out our budget claims for 2006. On occasion, here's all the movement we've explained since the execution, through this new budget would be me, on time. This result from this says, that we could really do a little bit faster to make use of the funds, or that, through faster law-making and better, by a number of employees, we could put some institutions into office faster and, of course, then make them do that, to give a better result. 49 We are suffering from a chronic lack of space, and we are now solving it at the beginning of the construction of this building, as it is said, but we are still going to need meaning for some major institutions to cope, the current problem of the SIP and the accommodation of the SIP is one of the major problems, and so here are all the other reforms that will still be required of us much greater engagement in business space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19147	Thank you. Mr. Gligorić, please. Excuse me, Mr. Vinko Zorić, yes, yes, yes, please, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19148	Mr. Lagumdžija said from the opportunity, at the beginning of his exposure that he would be a cartoon, and it was a false allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19149	Yeah, okay. Who's next? I, Mr. Lagumdžija's business,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19150	Mr. Chairman, since... he's had an objection to the lack of these reports there, really given that we from the Council of Ministers are getting opening remarks as if the people from the meadow had come, and you're an expert in detecting meadows, so I'd ask you to ensure that they have these opportunities that they can report in time, not to give us opening remarks after the debate has already begun.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19151	Okay, thank you. Mr. Beriz Belkić, I apologize. He has a word, so get ready for Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić, so he writes to me here now. He's my secretary, so Gligorić, so Novaković, so it's written here, let me read as it says.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19152	Can I?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19153	Of course you can, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19154	Thank you. I am very sorry that the Commission's report on finance and the budget is quite short, so it could be concluded that no serious debate has been held on the committee, but that it is routinely very quickly processed and recommended for this House to accept this document. Of course, the Commission has recommended that the report be accepted but we had a much more serious debate than this report says. I believe it's due to the shortness of time because we had a commission yesterday, that some things were dropped, so I'm going to say something about it. I'm looking at it, the president's away right now, and I hope she doesn't mind, because she could have told this house herself. 50 Madam Minister has pressed a very good key and explained to us quite extensively what it says in this report. However, the problems remain. So we're on the commission, I still think, determined that only reporting records one kind of progress in the very methodology of comprehensiveness, etc. and gives us hope that the Ministry of Treasury and Finance will perfect this process in the future and that we will have more and more transparent reports that will paint the real state of money consumption. So that's one of the findings. We also estimated that the time limit in which the report is submitted even though it is good, I think it is 30.6. whether so is the Ljerka deadline, we are also MPs of the Party for BiH then, had objections to that deadline. Because, you see, now the minister said she would use the 2004 report to project the 2006 budget, or a three-year budget that would try to project. It would be far more efficient and useful if we could use the 2006 budget creation report for or at least 9 months 2005. So, we have warned of these deadlines and we also have opinions in the Commission that future we should synchronise the review report, the report on the implementation of the budget and even, it would not be bad if we could have some work reports, because skilled MPs such as Mr Lagumdžija used the report financially and discussed the work of the institutions. The financial report simply speaks of the facts of what has been spent. He does not assess whether the ministry could have established it before or could not have been established, he simply notes the facts, so spent, etc. And we have found on the Commission that there are an inadmissible number of items, the beneficiary of the budget with an extremely low level of implementation of the budget approved without justification. And then a man can conclude whether they've been asking too much, whether it's bad-planned or not, or whether it's hard-working, or if it's saving under quotes is. Furthermore, this report continues to speak, i.e. the results of the execution, etc. continue to say that planning is in some way an inert and transfer of some acquired positions, etc. no serious function analysis. What it takes is money to make a function real. Anyway, we've had this much this year, let's go 5% up, etc. So I hope, however, that this one, I was able to paint that we at the Finance and Budget Committee were conducting some sort of debate and this finding that I said, I thought there would be some recommendations for this House of Representatives in good grace, so that the deadlines should be reduced as much as possible, to synchronise the review reports with the audit reports, and even on the work reports, that in a different way, it is estimated how much it is necessary for some institutions, etc. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, indeed in a more serious way and that I remain therefore, along with some of the findings that I have said, on the recommendation of this, that this statement be accepted. And Mrs. Ljerka, the proposer of this budget is the Presidency, this report is the Presidency. So you went out on behalf of the presidency today. That's right, that's what you were supposed to say, of course, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19155	You're done, Mr. Belkić, thank you. Mr. Mornjkić. Have Mr. Gligorić prepare himself. Please just that if you can have a shorter discussion, I'm sorry to always point this out when Mr. Moranjkić comes forward, this is the least relevant to him right now, but I would ask for a shorter one. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19156	Well, it's common to me, so I don't, I've already Googled it, it is. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen, fellow MPs, gentlemen present, reading this report, there was a lot to conclude, but there was a lot left for me and a lot of vague things. And I can't make it clear that I can't fit into what I think is normal in the realisation of one budget. So only in this context will I be brief, ask Mrs. Minister, to clarify and comment on a few of the report's highlighted data that are just about finance, not as Mr. Belkić says, and the work of certain authorities, although they are not inseparable. I'd like to ask you to comment on the structure of the total expenditure in 2004. I am particularly alluding to point 3 which bears the name of special purpose programmes that have spent 17.5 million or not full 8% of the budgets have been reached and I do not see them in the structure of the explanation. Under two, the structure of the current expenditure, and in that fine under point 8, the rental of assets and equipment, which affects 15, some million marks, or not even 8% of the budget. Since particularly with this item, certain stories are circulating around Sarajevo and BiH, the rental of this property has an extremely suspicious background. I would further ask Mrs. Minister to comment on the income structure under point 3 of the value of 26 million, with further questions about your opinion on the budget of a state based on a incomplete 11% charity and how this is planned in the budget for the next periods, this charity. Is it before that that those who are potential are visited, and they ask whether you will give us money and how much, so that we may pay in the budget? Furthermore, since BiH is probably the only country in the world for now, which has no direct income, when do you think the budget of this country will have its own incomes and what does the Council of Ministers and your ministry do specifically to get to it as soon as possible? It's a few questions that I have left unclear, to fill out a picture of this report on the implementation of the Budget in 2004. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19157	Thank you, too. It wasn't short. Mr. Gligorić. I'd really like you to cut the discussion short. We have a lot of agenda points, we need to finish today's session, unless you think we're working tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, it's no problem, we just need to finish the session. Here, let Mr. Novaković prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since this is the execution of the Budget, that here are recorded by the items simply all these revenues and expenditures, yes
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19159	The quorum is on the verge of, please inform the MPs to enter the O.R., start with the members of the College and then here with the MPs, otherwise we'll interrupt the session. Please inform Ivo deputies to enter the O.R., I apologize to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19160	Thank you very much. Of course, there is also a question of the management of the overall policy of the executive government, but I do not want to go into the details and appreciate what you say is said and I share this opinion, but I would have asked the Ministers only when there is one question since in 2004, you had 22 million donations, a way of controlling and threatening funds, we now know how it has been done in the last few years, after these control bodies that we have established, but perhaps one of these, by the way, what is the relationship to donations as a whole, given that this is not the problem in BiH. And, I end up this way, thank you, as a contribution,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19161	Thank you for honoring my recommendation. Mr. Novaković, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I would just like to support one proposal here given by Mr. Belkić. In fact, I think it is a very good suggestion that some other reports go along with this report because then we would avoid discussing the work of certain institutions. In fact, this is about a classic report, so the implementation of a budget that involves informing MPs about what has been done. So, about what's been spent. What should be important and significant to us, is whether these figures are correct or not. If these figures are correct, and the minister said in the opening statement that that is the case, and I have no reason not to believe that, then it is enough for me as an MP to adopt this report. So I'm talking about numbers now. I'm not talking about whether the way the funds were available in the previous year was good or not, that's another question entirely. I'm not even talking about the law because it will be determined by the auditor and the audit. So whether the funds are spent in accordance with the law or not. I said all this because I didn't know either, I heard the suggestion not to accept the report. So you don't accept the report, so you don't accept what's true. So not to adopt what's true gives me the right to suggest and change the numbers as it suits us so that we accept what's wrong, because that's what comes to him the same seriousness and this proposal of mine and the one I just said. So, I'm gonna support this report because he's right. And whether the funds were used for purpose or not, we'll talk when we talk about the report on the work of individual ministries.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19163	Yeah. Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Minister. Please, Mr. Short and you. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19164	As far as Mr. Moranjkić's questions are concerned. If we go in line and talk about special purpose programs, maybe I'm a little messed up, but it doesn't matter. So when you look at this table from some users of the budget. If we start with the first user of the budget that is here, the Parliamentary Assembly. So that's behind this table that refers to the number of employees. So when we look at the structure, when you look at this contact there's no, there's a contact economic code, so we go up like this, current expenditures, and then down there we have liquid grenades, capital expenditures, and under the IV Roman code, it writes a special purpose program. With each of the budget users, most of it means there is no in each, almost every one of you has a special purpose programme and for the Parliamentary Assembly writes, the MPs' clubs and it is wrong, we said correcting, protecting these representatives and delegates, the European integration programme and other international co-operation, adaptation of space, etc. And that means the total amount when you add it to fifty-eighty-nine thousand or whatever. Furthermore, the presidency has a special purpose program are about the Office in The Hague for these officers. The Ministry of Defence, military diplomatically means every user of the budget when you look at these tables, you will find a special purpose program marked, purpose and amount of funds, when you add that number up there that we just said 17 million or how much. It means within each individual table for the users of the budget. As far as I'm concerned, and I can show you later if he wants to, it doesn't matter. As far as current rent-related expenditures are concerned, most of these costs have to do with diplomatic and constituencies that are out there, which are very expensive and then most of the important, are mostly due to the MIP and we have little leases in the country. We can separate them from you, specify how many MIPs are in the country, but so they really refer to these objects. We haven't even paid for the SIP this facility there yet, we should be paying from 1.7 to rent the SUP in this building we have. Now, let's say, one new item that we have in finance for the leases. As far as donations are concerned, in general. You saw that this table number one, when you look at its structure, then you see when you read the balance of income by sources, Table one. It has the meaning of transferred income, has non-tax revenue, has ongoing support or donations in cash form and then writes. Number one: Government of Greece's donation to facility 3. A donation from the UNHSR to the Ministry of Human Rights. The donation of UNICEF, the dedicated donation of Ombdusmen, Norway to Parliament, donations, and not to read until the end, 22 means here we have specifically stated, who this donor is, now, who we are supported and who the minister is implementing and all through the vault system, means going through those items, so this is really the amount that goes into that book, spent through that book transparently. The master book of the vault, I think of it. And so this is what it says here and the only support to the budget was the three tranches of the EU's macro-financial assistance. Now this year we got the last third tranche, last year we got about 9 million euros in support. So, as for our own revenues for 2005, I remind you that in the meantime, we have passed several laws concerning the collection of indirect incomes, indirect taxes on one common account, for the state and entities. The state has been sourced through taxes since the new year, and in that section it writes in the framework of expected revenues for 2005, in our budget that we adopted for 2005, how many of our original 54 revenues, how many taxis there are, how many other donations and everything else, but that's 2005 financing in 2005. For the fourth, it was still the entities that financed the state through direct transfers. Since the new year we have our own income, from next new year if Bog, yes, we have a new type of tax revenue, that's the VAT and its distribution we will have again part of the original income that we share with other levels. So that's it. And, regarding these donations, it's true donations I told you, so this answer, the previous years are, the coverage of information was made through this project that was done with the UNDP in the database of '96 there are meaning those donations that they showed there. We can talk about whether we need to review, do a review of these donations in the way that this database is complex. Anyway, we think that most of the donations are covered, that it exists in their report and that it is ultimately confirmed by donors. The only one, one of the biggest donations currently being implemented for this year, for 2005 in BiH is a donation relating to the BiH Court of Justice related to this special department, and that is one huge donation and ultimately a donation that would go partly to build a prison at the state level. So these are now some big projects that would be done that way. For this second, we will have to borrow loans, build infrastructure, raise these other capacities will still be credits and Greek donations extremely significant, we are very grateful to the government of the Greek state for a donation related to the reconstruction of this building. Here's what happens if Bog finishes in a year.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19165	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. Here's the one, I'm closing the argument. And, of course, we move on to a statement on the report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions of international obligations for 2004. Prepare to vote, we vote on the report. Vote now. - 24 for, 2 against, 2 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives adopted a report on the implementation of the BiH International Obligations Budget for 2004. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda, that's Ad.7. Information on the results of the application of the BiH Customs Tariff Act at the 53rd session of the House of Representatives obliged the Council of Ministers to provide the House with information on the results of the application of the Customs Tariff Act. Following this conclusion, the Council of Ministers delivered the information to the Council on 21 April 2005. The information was discussed by the competent commission of this home for foreign trade and customs. You have received a report from the Commission, you have seen that the Commission 55 has held a public agreement in view of the great interest in this issue. The Commission proposes to Dom to adopt the conclusions contained in the report at 15 points. I call on the minister to leave immediately with the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations with the abroad, sir. Okay, before the minister, then the word has the President of the Commission, then the minister, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19166	Thank you, Chairman. I'll be very brief. Therefore, the Commission considered this analysis of the effects of the application of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the CCI Act, which opened quotas for imports of certain quantities of meat without payment of customs duties. This question has caused great public attention. This is the reason why the Commission held a public debate and called on the relevant factors for public debate, so to say, which showed and, naturally, things have an interest in getting involved in this debate. On the basis of the debate, the Commission has concluded, with the exception of an analysis of the application of the Law and its effects, that it presents this home the following conclusions. I'm going to try to talk them out of it, to point out some questions. The Commission has assessed that the amendments to the Law are not based on sufficient communication with relevant projects, the relevant entities, the appropriate number of associations, the Chamber of Commerce and others. The only relationship that was maintained in the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the law by the competent ministry, it is the Association of Farmers of BiH. One more thorough analysis shows that, therefore, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law favours certain meat processing facilities, whose activity consists of imports of said, cheap meat, freed from customs and other duties. Instead of the main goal, of course, of amending this law, of stimulating domestic production, we have the stimulation of imports. Therefore, the results can be appreciated in stimulating exports. In this respect, the Commission proposes, of course, that, in order to increase the intensive and progressive development of primary production, quantified free import contingents should be put in place, as well as the elimination of customs duties and levies for all farmers meeting the veterinary-sanitary conditions for the tariff numbers listed in this report. To lift tariff quotas for imports without customs duty, for certain products, here are the mentioned, hams etc. The Commission then proposes that significant quantities, i.e. the Commission, were found not to be processed but to be sold directly on the market by significant quantities of meat without payment of customs duties. The Commission also concluded that the Law is well-accounted for, in particular, the ratio of the use of import quotas, so some meat-processing producers did not buy meat from domestic producers. All in all, it can be noted that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act is not stimulating for domestic production. This requires the Directorate for indirect taxation to exercise more responsibility control over the application of the law. Finally, to conclude, it requires the BiH Council of Ministers to launch an initiative and speed up activities at the adoption of a customs tariff law that must be in the capacity to protect domestic production. 56 The Commission also finds it necessary for Parliament to conclude that the implementation of the Veterinary Law and animal identification rules in BiH is speeded up, it is required from the office of the competent, of course, for veterinary purposes to report on these activities as soon as possible to the House of Representatives. So the conclusions are, I think, quite precisely defined. You can see the results, you can see the favoring of certain carnivores at the expense of the manufacturer. So, the basic conclusion is that this law on amendments and amendments to the law does not stimulate domestic production, which is vital at this time for BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19167	I would like to thank Mr Kunić, the chairman of the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs. The rieč has a foreign trade minister, Mr. and Economic Relations, Mr. Doko, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19168	Thank you, Mr. President, honourable MPs, I will not, therefore, give the opening statement, since we have given this material to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers. I will now give my review of the 16 conclusions of the Commission, therefore, which we have received here in addition and which we have now had the opportunity to hear and I could start from one to the other conclusion, but at the very beginning I want to comment that there are very many conclusions that are contradictory whether. We can further say that some grades have been listed that are insufficiently reasoned. The first conclusion, therefore, where it is said that at the very stage of preparation and debate in the relevant associations, it is said that there was not enough activity in terms of engagement or holding talks with associations, groups etc., they want to say that exactly with the Association of Farmers and what I will say in BiH, is very important because it is not the Association of Farmers of BiH, we did not have any communication. So with these representatives, in the course of these laws, we didn't communicate. There were meetings, those meetings were attended by the presidents of entity groups, associations of producers, poultry, farmers, they are called. We couldn't decide who our companion would be, because we can't choose between them, simply all those who wanted to participate, had open access and open doors. So that included the union, I know the City Union that also agricultural producers were involved in the adoption of these proposals of this law. And the very fact that this bill has come three times before this paragraph, as well as in fact not in front of the House of Peoples, is saying enough that there has been a lot of time and a lot of opportunities to say your opinion and position on this law. We already had one experience, so before proposing this law and this experience was based on decisions. Previously, decisions have always been made in the past when 57 of these problems are at stake. This is the first time, therefore, that the Ministry and the Council of Ministers have proposed amending the laws and supplementing the Customs Tariff Act, because this is, therefore, the matter regulated by law and all amendments should therefore be regulated by means of amendments to the law and, of course, assumes in the prudential procedure. In that sense, when proposing these solutions, we took care of it, however, to install some security mechanisms, in order to just avoid all the negative consequences because the intention was, absolutely, to support production in accordance with all the conclusions that had been made in this Parliament. So we couldn't, at this very initial stage, provide ratios in terms of how much in these measures and these benefits, if we can say so, of course to participate in the production and how many primary agricultural producers and how much processing, so we introduced this clause unlike those of the earlier decisions of compulsory buyout. I'll remind you that there was no mandatory ransom in the past. In order to avoid any possible irregularities in terms of avoiding the law and fulfilling the obligations after which, of course, there is a right to duty-free imports, we asked for very clear documentation to be presented. So it was a invoice, then we had consultations about it, that it wasn't the only document that appeared in these activities, because there are agricultural producers that weren't registered, and then it's regulated through ransom blocks. We accepted such a suggestion but we specifically asked that all transactions, therefore, financial transactions take place on a jury basis. If at all, therefore, the cash cycle of traffic in terms of whether, payments from a particular processor's cash register could not be valid documentation for the use of these quotas. And so it wasn't all we did, but in the end we were looking for one guarantee, and we thought it was right that the bank guarantee was the safest instrument of payment insurance. In this case, customs obligations and are the case that the administration means, for indirect opposition as a body of jurisdiction for the implementation of this law, established some irregularities in terms of the absence of a particular dossier, it was then possible that within a period of 4 months, which was the deadline, that the applicant of all the necessary documentation in terms of proper use, therefore, of these products which we are talking about, then the Impaired Taxation Authority would decide whether to protest the guarantee at the bank or simply return it to whoever made that guarantee. We have addressed ourselves naturally and the Administration, mostly with the aim of getting directly from the competent institution information on whether certain irregularities were detected because there were very many here, and the headlines in the media, there were various statements... that this law was forged in such a way that this documentation was forged or forged or that on the same basis, one dossier, one invoice, one salary repeatedly submitted, and then this right of duty-free imports was realised. The Implicit Taxation Authority did not confirm, therefore, that such activities took place, and we therefore have that information directly from the Implicit Taxation Administration. As far as this is concerned, all this is taking place longer, this third conclusion, that the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations during the preparation has achieved, that I have already said. The law basically treats production and processing unfairly. So that's what maybe the most discussion of this one was about when we proposed this law. 58 It was simply difficult to agree at the outset that or how much of the cake in terms of duty-free imports will be and will be distributed to the primary agricultural producer and processors. The decision was to resect the market after all. The basic reason why we introduced these measures was the large quantities of meat in stock, and you remember those headlines of I don't know, three thousand tons of one kind of meat, the chicken meat we had in stock, then we had no cattle throwing themselves at the Sava or someone pushing them already, I don't know. So we had a pig I don't know what number. True, we couldn't verify this information because the competent ministries in this case, the entity ministries, so they didn't participate too actively in this regard except that they supported these activities to make such decisions, but they were essentially running away from this problem. What was the situation after that in terms of price. We don't know except that we got information off the record, I didn't want to go out with that kind of information in front of this Parliament because I'm sure there was a higher price. It wasn't always the same price for live cattle or in one region or in a different period, so we didn't want to go out with that information, but it certainly had a stimulating effect on the first, interest in buying and second, and at the height of the ransom price. Because if the processor wants to achieve these benefits, he has to buy it from a remote manufacturer. There was little difficulty in defining what domestic agricultural production is and what it is a domestic producer. And that's what's about the pan-European rules of origin again. Well, these rules make it very clear that when it comes to animals, this is how it is defined they must be originally grown in BiH and then, that is how this preferential status is achieved and these rights can be realised. So this conclusion by the commission, that extra profits have been made, we can say that this decision has certainly been granted to workers. But it also favored the primary agricultural producers. What's the ratio, I can't argue, I can't get into the analysis. I don't think anyone can, because it's very hard to run one of those tests. It would take a lot of information, analysis, buyouts, from each individual producer to finally determine. We're sure it worked out for both of us. Perhaps, the fact that these processing is closer to the fire, conditionally said whether, those who exercise that right, may give right to those who think that they have kept most of the cake. But in any case, we don't think it's an extra profit, especially for the reason it's said that one of these decisions must have resulted in an increase in imports of these raw materials. And, certainly, if there were no changes and additions to this law, that imports in these quantities would not have been achieved in BiH and then, from that aspect, certainly so that these lost revenues would not be to this extent, as presented in this information, because there would simply be no interest in such a type of production. The fact is and it is certainly undeniable that this type of imports resulted in an increase in production, and then, thus, a decrease in imports of finished products. Now we need to identify what we're interested in. Whether to reduce imports of finished products, or raw materials. If, therefore, we are thinking alternatively about these two variants because they are, then I am always closer to this variant that we are stimulating the import of raw materials and detimizing imports of finished products and increasing the share of our own work in our products. 59 As far as sublegal acts are concerned, the conditions for importing meat are precise. We have made a decision, the Council of Ministers has made a decision and the Administration for indirect taxation has acted on that decision and surely this conclusion 5, rather than stimulating domestic production, has further stimulated and stimulated imports. It cannot stand, in the form it stands here, simply dims the imports of the finished product and we agree with that, but it stimulated the import of raw materials, and in such a way should be entered into analysis when it comes to the conclusion of the 5th Commission. For more intensive and progressive development, here you can see conclusion number 6, now from once the Commission is determined to see that here, tariff quotas are extended to certain groups of non-products, but the types of means of animals, heroes, heifers and meat breeds of pig, which I can simply conclude is that the conclusion of the number 6 gives to the Ministry and the Council of Ministers and also to Parliament, that all this has done in terms of tariff quotas, here it needs to be extended to these product groups and thus re-stimulate domestic production, because we need to make sure that these are all raw materials, meaning raw materials, raw materials, raw materials base for further processing. I also agree that it might be better to import live cattle instead of meat or, this is cattle for breeding, it stands here or may go further in that vertical lactating so that we can get to the first stage practically to strengthen the stock fund to a sufficient extent in BiH and that we have, in practice, a large Syrian base and, on that basis, we also have the right to use preferential treatment for EU countries and countries with which we have signed free trade contracts. After this, conclusion number 7, I have no objection if the Commission or Parliament concludes that some of these product groups should not have been found on this list, as is said here for hams and pieces of them, and for boneless meat, considering, here the argument is such that it shows that only one company, here is precisely the MIMO used 95% of these quantities in this case. If the Commission and Parliament conclude as proposed whether, in this text, we have no objection, therefore, to amend it in law as well. This mention mentions information from the Chamber of Commerce, which is related to meat, I can say that we have had the same many contacts with representatives of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, who, before it was therefore decided and adopted, have participated in the implementation of a decision by the Council of Ministers. And it was precisely in that decision that it was noted that it went to that, it was said of trust, or I came to you, whether it was first approved imports, and then a certain amount was then purchased. Such a decision, proposed by the Chamber of Commerce and, where it was directly involved, later proved not to be respected, that those quantities that were agreed, so between the carnivores and the producers of primary ones within the outside chamber, meaning under patronage, were later not realised. As for the claim that they are here, says number 9, a significant amount of meat, look out for all these reviews that have been given on a flat-rate basis whether, and without some evidence, we say checked those allegations at the administration, they were not processed, they were sold directly on the market. We really don't have that kind of information, we don't have that kind of knowledge, if anyone has that information, whether it's a commission, representatives, citizens, there are institutions that can verify these data, but my opinion is that these products that have been imported simply and could not be found here in the final consumption or 60 on the market because they are still products of this is said, questionable quality or I won't tell edible waste but products used as raw materials in the processing industry. And that's a fact, everywhere in the world. Don't think there's a difference between this product that's big or important in BiH and the product that we import, the finished product, whether it's salami, carnivores, they, all those producers, use the same raw material because it means this mass production, and very hard to imagine that chicken in the block, can be used somewhere in retail, in a store or that it can't be known, but the way it's frozen, spread through a butcher's shop. So we didn't have that information, nor did we get confirmation from the market that there were any disturbances in this part. If that were the case, certain market disturbances would certainly have occurred. Because of the lack of accuracy of the law itself, it is said here again that full abuse of the prescribed ratios is possible. Careful, the ratios are very precise. One to three, these are the digits and there's nothing different to be done here but to be done according to these instructions right now. Maybe we've allowed, we've made a mistake because we haven't had any experience, it's about changing the law that we first passed, and there's probably a chance there's some kind of correction. Here it is proposed to go with the proposal, only beef. One kilo live scales per kilogram of imported meat. If Parliament concludes so, whether it is other proportions, we will respect it, that is what is an integral part of the law. The fact is that the law itself states that the Council of Ministers can intervene when it comes to ratios, but I want to say here that the Council of Ministers is not the rule of any intervention in this regard, because here we have, wanted to wait and listen to Parliament's opinion. Well, if it's concluded that it intervenes in any direction, we agree with that opinion. As for further, paragraph 11, here, that clear evidence must be submitted, it is said again that the Ministry, beware, this is indeed, I am sorry that this text is in this form, which comes before Parliament and what the Commission adopted, foreign trade, imported quotas approved with a promise. I can responsibly claim that we have not received any promises from these importers. We received according to the law the intended meanings of documents and perhaps there were words in the statements, because the statements and foreseen by the law to be given, because meat processors had to make a statement that they would use these raw materials in processing, not for placing on the market. If those statements are considered promises, then I agree with that, but here I think after that it's said to be a drastic violation of the law, I'd like it to change, I don't think there's such a single assessment, that it's a drastic violation of the law. If there are such phenomena, I have said how and how to react to such activities. We will support and participate in all this. Here, I've got a little suggestion to do this one, and cut my speech short. It's probably going to be a discussion, here, I'm going to give it a little bit of a break though, because I'm afraid you're going to listen to a little bit of this, with less caution, to my exposure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19169	Thank you very much. The chairman of the Council of Ministers Mr. Terzić asked for a word, he has a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19170	The President-in-Office and members of the College, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I asked for the floor to comment on the conclusions proposed by the Commission after the public debate and after the analysis of the materials provided by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and which were required by the conclusions at the session when the Law on Amendments to the Customs Tariffs was discussed. I must say, that here after 2.5 maybe 3 months, even though we have been accused by certain members of Parliament that we have broken the law, that we have not sent the information, so after 2.5 - 3 months, we are glad to talk about this information today. I will look at each individual conclusion that the Commission has made and I must admit that at first I can say that it is amazing how much energy the Commission has spent preparing, so whether it is a problem for me to bring it out now, we are again in the same problem. When I don't say anything, then the problem is I don't say it, and when I mean it, then.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19171	May I have your attention, please? The chairman of the viijeće of Ministers received his word and allowed him to present his discussion. Mr. Terzić, continue.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19172	Thank you, I'll finish this, and I'll look for a word later, until we hear what the MPs have to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19173	Mr. Beriz Belkić, or Dušanka Majkić, asked for a word before, has, has.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19174	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19175	I don't have it, come see.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19176	I believe so, but here I am, writing a request for an esteemed, electronic one.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19177	Someone put you in a relationship with my Lagumdžija. We're being interrupted by a relationship. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19178	A little while when, here we have the opportunity today to have another document, which causes great controversy and not only a great controversy within Parliament, this Parliament, but also a great controversy in the public. The Commission can give its work justice in such a way that it does not reflect the arbitrary will and lack of information of certain members of the Commission, but is a reflection of a public debate that has lasted here, which has been called upon by all the measuring institutions, means the 20 institutions of this country, each of which is of particular importance in this area, as well as certain experts who could give their word. So in one place, many of them have found that this is the first chance that they can speak on this subject. If they had not had the opportunity to speak to neither the competent ministry nor had had the opportunity to discuss this before the adoption of the law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act in this House. As much as the dilemma has caused it, you must remember that several times this topic has come and been returned from Parliament. So in the beginning, MPs felt that something was wrong and that decision issues should be tied to the commission's report, to a report by the Council of Ministers that this was really happening on the ground. So much for who the people who were involved are. All found that the law was passed without sufficient preparation and adequate debate and that not all associations that could contribute had been included in it. But it's not the scariest thing. Did this parliament, I ask the question, bring these amendments to the law only because of four businesses in BiH, which made 85% of the total quotas? If Parliament says, yes, and those four companies, they have taken measures, then the office, and of those four companies, one with 70% of the total imports. Did we bring these measures for him? No, and that's not the scariest thing. Since it is possible to ask a question that we have asked several times, how can hams and pieces of them, dried or smoked, or boneless meat, pig dicks, dried or smoked, which have no further processing, as it is possible to import into those two quotas without customs duty, when nothing is processed, repacked, glued to the manufacturer's label and sent to shops. How could they be duty-free and how could 95% of total imports only import Lijanović? Have these two quotas been introduced because of them? So I'm not talking to an NGO, I'm talking to an official institution. The price of frozen meat imported, you saw 1.14 marks. So, edible waste, so sausages, sausages, pâtés and the rest we eat, are edible waste. It's importing meat without customs. Secondly, on the minister's information that there's no knowledge that such imported frozen meat is going directly to the shops, I'm going to call him, and that's what I've been instructed, I haven't gone to check, but the people who sat on that discussion have said that he writes big letters in Mercator, meat from imports and sells very cheaply, kg of meat I don't know, 2.5 stamps. So these are the people who had the chance to see it. What are the ratios, please, what are the import ratios? For one beef ratio is 3. So for one beef from the bones, imports three, imports are meant ratio 1:6, 6 the ratio is 1,800 per 600 kilograms of beef weight, importing 1,800 kilograms of boned meat. So it's not 1:3, it's 1:6. As far as this document is concerned, the Directorate of Direct Taxation, whether or not they were buying it, told us that he was appalled in what way 63 of this was put into order, how all this was done, and that the Administration of indirect taxation had no opportunity to state its position at all about this and that it absolutely disagrees that this is going, that there is no standard and way in which this can be quality controlled. We left the farmers without a hero for that. Imagine, please, we've limited the import for this hero, left empty stables, and we're importing meat. And on all sides, people say, let us produce. In the last 10 months, no new farm has been opened to grow animals. So, we don't, we shut down the repro base in BiH. So, I believe that there has been an abuse of the prescribed measures, I believe that control has not been carried out properly and that the term with promise or another is relevant, when it is known what has been done, I believe that imports are 4 times a year, is unprecedented. But the commission went to make some kind of relationship that wouldn't ban the absolute import of meat, so we said let's let it be twice, with that
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19179	I'd just like to cut the discussion short. You've already broken the usual time for over 10 minutes. I'm asking you to bring the discussion to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19180	Here I am ending, Chairman, I think this is too important a subject and if you don't think we should talk, I'm going to stop this moment.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19181	No, you don't need to stop, I'm just asking you, if you can speed it up.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19182	So, I end up, I don't think the quotas should be held more than twice a year, not four times, and not without this Parliament's approval. And as for the Veterinary Act, and the Animal Identification Regulation, I've been asking business questions on several occasions. I asked how far it came with the marking, because everyone says there are no animals. When I say, how can we get to the real data, you can't, the office didn't finish its job. I have never received an answer to these questions, and that is why I believe that they have their own responsibility in this material as well. Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19183	Thank you very much. So, so far, we have registered Novaković, Palavrić, Belkić, Lagumdžija, Avdić, Moranjkić. So here's the order, and we're on the seventh item of the agenda. I'd really like to ask you, if you can cut the discussion to five, here's Hazim Felić, for five minutes. In five minutes, you can really say what you think and then move on with the work. 64 Mr. Novaković, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19184	I thank Mr. Chairman, here, let it not be just before the presentation of Moranjkić, so this warning that a colleague knows he knows he can. I will fit in in these five minutes and I must say that I have read several times, the first report of the commission, trying to find what the results of the implementation of the Customs Tariff Supplement Law apply here. I came to the conclusion that it was a report on the results of the debate on the round table. In fact, that's what this material is supposed to say. So, the report on the results of the debate from the round table, because half of the vocab points don't apply to the report, unless the commission had some other report and not the one I have, which is under the number 010223439/05 of 21.4. So, I have that report. I don't know what commission she had, but if we're discussing the same report, then I don't know why the commission's drawn a series of conclusions. Of course, I have no intention of playing the commission. But indeed, the commission should have only, as she said at the outset, that their conclusions refer exclusively to the analysis of the effects of the application, and in fact they do not apply. And I would really like the commission to have been able to come to a few conclusions, and that this debate that we are having right now, we are referring to that question, not to the question of how the law came about, not to the question of many, the claims have been made, extremely high profits are being made, we are not going to reduce it or increase import prices, or order these to reduce meat prices, or processing, etc. I have to say that out of the frame of conclusions, I couldn't get the impression really, whether this law that we've brought here, gave or didn't give effect. I must say that I'm denying my distinguished colleague, Majkić, that no farm has been built. Absolutely an incorrect claim. Only in my municipality, so in Prnjavor Municipality, is the last, here I am taking a year and I'm not only tying it to the application of this law, made a dozen new chicken farms, and it now has over 50 chickens farms. It means one municipality. That this has given effect and that several pig farms have been made in the last few months, and this directly refers to the consequences of applying these tariff rates, because the price, therefore, is the price of pigmeat living scales from 2.20 grew to almost 3 brands, and I guess those who buy it, we who spend it, I guess we buy this one, so we know what the price is. So you wouldn't be able to say that all this stuff that's been said here has been subdued by some serious data. It's a set of remarks from a round table participant and I understand it that way and I respect it. So that's it. What matters to me as an MP is whether the data that the ministry has submitted here is true or not. I would ask the minister to be completely clear and responsibly saying whether the information in his information is correct or not. If they're correct, so if they're correct, then I'm asking the commission to tell which information she was discussing. Secondly, it's really a guy's question whether the law was passed because of five reprocessors. Here I'm asking if anyone who asked for permission was denied and met the conditions. Here's the question. We have a rat in the RS that we don't have processing, so we don't have enough meat processing. And it's really inhaled. So people haven't evolved, we haven't developed that kind of production even though we have preconditions when it comes to producers, so when it comes to cattle growers, we have conditions, but we don't. Why people didn't invest in it, now I don't know why, whether the situation was bad or not before, mostly here's the example of 65, say Prnjavor, where there are over 50 chicken farms, you don't have anyone to process chicken meat. So, we don't have these processing products, but it doesn't mean they're not effects on chicken meat or pig meat. I'm talking about what I know. I think the commission dragged us into an awkward statement that we need to get out of now. How do you get out? Accepting the commission's report implies bringing in a complete doubt of information, which of course is not disputed if it is true. If this means this isn't true, then it's clear that we're bringing her into doubt. And if this is right here, then we question the commission's report. The possible solution to this is that the commission once again submits its report, so focus its report on information rather than on the results of the break-up on the round table. In this case, the commission could draw up a number of very high-quality and reasoned proposals that Parliament could then declare, with the aim of improving in this area. In this way, I didn't get those suggestions, so I didn't get those suggestions, and I have to be honest that this isn't my area, so I could now do something based on just one information or one report really some serious suggestions in terms of improving the situation in this area. The other possible variant is, therefore, the acceptance of information without the Commission's report, which is very bad, which is very bad and which would be the opposite of the practice we've been working on so far. And I wouldn't go to that variant. So, I wouldn't go because it's about our commission that we've formed here for anyone really maybe in this case it's a little out of this material but give it a chance to come back here and deliver material concerning exclusively information on the results of the application. I suggest, therefore, that we return this report to the commission, so that it can direct it to this information and then lead to a breakdown of both the information and the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19185	Okay. Mrs. Majkić, replica. One minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19186	I know it's very difficult for Mr. Novaković to defend what you've adopted in time, and you haven't made any serious arguments, but on your argument that all sides of nothing new primary livestock production, I'm reading to you from a document we're just discussing. It means documents from the Council of Ministers which say that having those provisions and the fact that there is not enough livestock on the domestic market to be bought, the need is imposed, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19187	Thank you very much. Replication response, Mr. Novaković, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19188	Of course, this, dear lady, I'm not defending the law I passed, I'm talking about information, I'm talking about every law I vote for, I'm totally aware of why I voted. So, I'm not defending the law, but I'm talking about the shortcomings of the commission's report, whose 66 of you are a member, and who you seem to me now that I'm listening to your discussion, you wrote. I got the impression that you wrote this. So, I'm just talking about that report and nothing else. And, please, as far as the bargaining is concerned, I'm of course inviting you here publicly, please come to Prnjavor. You can take the building permits, so you'll see how many in a few months, and I didn't say on the sides, but in Prnjavor.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19189	Thank you very much. Mrs. Seada Palavrić. Let Mr. Beriz Belkić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19190	Thank you. Let me first note that the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs has offered us a report on the results of the implementation of the Law on Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of BiH, which concerns meat imports. So, no izvjetšati on information from the Council of Ministers. Secondly, that this commission of ours has spent more than 2.5 months of time and how we could use the root for the primary producers above all, because the Council of Ministers cannot approve a new quota until the parliamentary assembly has declared its information. That's what we decided. So I find our commission really responsible for this much missed time, so about 3 months, the primary agricultural producers cannot rely on what to do in the future. Whether such a decision will be made again, whether it will have the opportunity to do so and to raise cattle and to place it, or not. What I was interested in when I voted for this decision and today when I support the Council of Ministers' Information, are the entity alliances of agricultural producers. These were our conversators when the law was passed and my conversators during the entire implementation, this period of implementation. They are more than satisfied with the effects produced by the decision we adopted and what only we are asked for, is that as soon as possible, we accept the information of the Council of Ministers and that, in order to re-authorise imports in the same way. I must say that I cannot accept the views of some people who appear on behalf of some agricultural alliances in BiH, and these people are in the leadership of certain parties and who are trying to reduce the results of everything we have done. So here this month you won't see any representatives of the entity alliances of agricultural producers. Furthermore, the Commission's proposal for a conclusion has been quite said about them. I can't really treat this as a proposal for conclusions because the words have been made either to say that the meat of the lowest quality is imported, for me they are unacceptable and as assessments, let alone as conclusions. There are things that may need to be considered by the Council of Ministers, which should be considered by the competent authorities, all the way to the prosecution, as the minister suggested. Let me suggest that we adopt the Council of Ministers' Report, not to accept the report of the committee responsible, because 2.5 months of the committee of directors don't spend on the laws, let alone information, if they don't want to politicise, and that we actually call this proposal a conclusion, deliver to all relevant institutions to the prosecution, let it be checked but that today we accept the Council of Ministers' information for reasons why if we return it to the Commission, first I don't expect it to change anything in its new 67 report, and secondly, more importantly, we can't, we don't allow the Council of Ministers to make a new decision that will allow people to live and work. I represent the interest of these people here, and I'm not ashamed to say it, and I even appeal to them again to ensure that if we can go one step further, because this is a false measure, it's clear to me, but that we're going to go one step further to tell them that in the next six months, in the next year, we're going to provide them with a purchase of a certain amount of product. So, please colleagues, let's support this information and allow people to continue to live and work because obviously this is a decision that has been produced so far I can say, for the best effects for the primary production in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19191	Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Kunić has a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19192	Thank you, Chairman. No, I can't accept this finding that the commission was dragging it around, etc. This is how to drum something up and blame the commission, here's the commission's fault, as we've heard in public media, the commission is guilty that the Council of Ministers couldn't make the key decisions. I would remind you gentlemen, dear, that you have criticised this report, that the Law on Customs Tariff Amendments and Supplements has been on this House three or four times, that I have warned this Parliament that it is not normal to do the same thing, even if under different names it comes to the agenda, that some things are hiding behind it. Don't pull my tongue, please. My tongue isn't exactly when you pull me back. Therefore, the introductory part of the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act is not subject to normal frameworks. And, of course, it resulted in results like we did. I would also remind you that last year's commission made a proposal for conclusions adopted unanimously by the Assembly with 8 points. You see, this committee is doing a lot of work and be careful when criticizing the committee. Novaković,...I'm sorry he's not here, I'm sorry, poor guy says,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19193	Please nice, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19194	The Commission has crossed its frameworks, the Commission says, so how has the Commission crossed its frameworks?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19195	Replication time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19196	I need to smile a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19197	Thank you very much. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19198	So here it is, to conclude, I won't be taking much. This is about the draft conclusions behind which, please, the commission stands. Which commission unanimously adopted and stuck to the questions given to the commission. If she's gone a little further, and more seriously, more thoroughly handled the matter, as we've reached a conclusion a year ago, that's our problem now. Maybe we'll work a little shorter in the future, not touch things, not pull a cat by the tail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19199	Okay, don't pull the cat by the tail. Let's go, please nice colleagues and colleagues, watch out like this, now it's half past five, we have four other registered debaters, we're on the seventh item of the agenda, then you know what dots are coming. So we have two options, so we do what we do and as far as we get there by half past six, by six. After that break, then nadavac tomorrow. So, please, just so you know that this possibility exists, because these are serious, as it is called, or that we go with this more substantial and shorter discussion, let's do as much today as possible. Mr. Beriz Belkić. Let Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19200	Here I am, Mr. Chairman, really trying to honor your suggestion and that it is as short as possible to speak. So, this parliament is in position, which I think is natural, that after a very difficult law on amendments and tariff supplements, etc. Consider what he produced today, what he did. After all these controversy reports, etc., and we now have two documents, so we have information from the Resort Ministry and we have a report from our commission. As far as our commission's report is concerned, I absolutely have no objections as to the methodology and scope of the work. So it's even good that the commission touched on some other things, but it's also primarily discussing information. This is indicated in the introduction itself. So, that's why she didn't miss the subject and she was working on the information. Now that she's gone, she's had a public debate and the rest of it, so she's gone into something bigger, a little wider trouble, not too much for me. But looking at this information, I asked for a definitive and understandable me, unlike these predecessors, not everything is clear. So, I don't understand all things well, so I've asked for an attitude of what the Resort Ministry, or the Council of Ministers, says. So I found, on page 4, that the finding in the text, not in the figures, that by dissipating the effects achieved, it can be concluded that the objectives set out for improving the conditions of cultivation in the primary agricultural production and in the processing of meat have been achieved. One part of the savings in import duties was poured from meat processing into primary agricultural production through prices, etc. What you said to every citizen notices, I didn't take it seriously what people notice, they don't notice. So, I've treated this finding of yours. So, the Resort Ministry says that the legal project that we adopted here brings the expected effects and stands by it. The resolution minister, the Commission's report, in a way 69, is pollemising, i.e. problematizing, calling it into question, etc. But in one quite this, I say, unargumented in a completely different way. Even the resolution minister tells us this, if Parliament concludes, we can change the ratios, we can lift quota tariffs for imports etc. So that's a little bit of a concern to me how lightly this, without any argument, leaves this House with the possibility that we're changing and not changing here right now. So I conclude my discussion the following way. I am asking the ministries, therefore because of all these controversys, that in one serious way, bearing in mind this report, says here whether this law has achieved its effects and whether you are still standing to keep it as it is and use it in this capacity, and then Parliament will be able or able to tell you what it thinks. We now have two contradictory things, a report from our commission and your report, and we find it very difficult to decide without one serious argument. Who am I supposed to trust now?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19201	I thank Mr. Beriz Belkić. The word is Mr. Zlagko Lagumdžija. Have Mr. Sead Avdić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19202	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, members of the Council of Ministers, well, eh, I am really very sorry that Beriz angered the prime minister. That's more like me than Berizu. Beriz usually brings people together, I dissipate them like this, and I just wanted to commend the prime minister for coming here and not taking out the poor minister, who we don't know whether he's in the resignation or not, so you don't know the man, so I don't know what we're talking about, we don't know if he's been leaving for three months or not, we don't know if he's working at all. It's working, so now I see it's working, and I see it's intense. Uh,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19203	Come on, please, uh,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19204	So, I think very, I think it's mildly inappropriate for the Prime Minister not to attend to what we're talking about right now because as far as I can remember, he's convinced us one three times, he's jumped on this phone booth like a tiger, to convince us, three times, every seven days, it's the only law we've ever had that we've ever had, every straight once, until he adopts. And I care for convincing us that it's great, that it'll solve all the problems, everything we've warned him about. All this has happened, even many things even more francantly in shape, as we can see from the report of this committee. He's about what now, which has been replaced by a section of the collective head of state, a few months ago, which is why he's in court now, is the kind of mother that's gonna go behind this. This, which is the president of a party today in court, is a children's game against what it says here and what the figures are here. The moment we received a report from a committee that directly stands, I quote a sentence, here's just one report from the commission -- it's a drastic violation of a law whose defendants should not only be sought among meat importers, but among the employees of the resolution ministry. The moment that 70 came before us, we were accomplices at that trial tomorrow. We're not going to be witnesses, we're going to be witnesses, but you know, some of them will be because they're accomplices and some of them have imaginations. The difference can only be some to justify not knowing. Someone's gonna say I wasn't in the session. And so on and so forth. So, I think this report is, at the very least, alarming. But what Mr. Chairman, I would like to draw particular attention to, and that is that today we have five points of the agenda, more better than each other, which is enough to shake the ground and we here conclude that no one is going on vacation until this is resolved. And you're cutting us down here, you can reduce the discussion, I don't mind, but this is how it goes, we're just going to run through the agenda points that our substances prove that this country is on its knees. We have information, by the time we get information on these plates, we'll start to claim that there's no problem, as it says in the information. We have a talking agenda here, waiting for people like stuck-up rifles here about VAT to convince us. Well, that alone requires a day-long session. It's all in itself. We have information in front of us about that suspension of the Treaty with the neighbours, which in itself shows to be drama, drama. It says here that we've not reduced anything but increased three times, etc. I mean, each of these points can be brought to the very least, before the court of this Parliament, that Parliament should give its own judgment on what to do to stop this disaster. So to get back to this part of the agenda, I'm going to do something for... Mr. Chairman, and I really think you've been on a wonderful trail a little while ago, with this request to get serious in terms of how long this time is devoted to these subjects, so let's work tomorrow. And I think we should not just continue tomorrow until these things are over, and we should also force the President of the Council of Ministers and the key ministers to come here and sit with us, to call the Directorate for Direct Taxation, the Head of the Council of Direct Taxation, to see what we want from them, to diverge on committees, to work on commissions until these things are resolved. Namely, Croatia is neighbouring recently because you put it on a monthly level or at an annual level, when you execute whether or not the extrapolation of the data, Croatia is 10 times smaller imports, for 10 times smaller imports, in view of the period for which imports have been disrupted, in Croatia about 2 thousand tonnes in 12 months the corresponding meat processing has been imported and Croatia has now put a 70 % barrier to the complete planet. And here we are doing what we're doing. So the neighbouring state has shown us how the state behaves in a 10 times less critical situation, 70% have increased customs duties and corresponding fees, and we here suggest that nothing happens, that it goes on. We see here from this information that there's been a crime. We see what a colleague of mine already said, so you can't buy wood for a kilo. Here are for the stamp and 14 fening imported meat without customs, for the stamp and 14 fening. That's the price. Did anyone buy meat for a brand and 14 fening? Someone imported it and sold it at the prices that are here. And then it's said to be in the function of protecting the manufacturer. Is there anything we can do because it says here that no new farm has been opened in the last ten months and a larger number has been closed. Are we going to make any kind of recovery program or any sort of programme of measures that will repair the damages that this has done? And that's what was done to the most unhappy people who really took this whole thing seriously. 71 It says here that because of the absence of regulations and instructions, some things have not been done and that it has further stimulated imports. Watch out, at least the rulebook and instructions are known who's making it. I mean, because of the rules and instructions, this wasn't done. It also says that the tariff codes of something not processed from the head are imported, but a finished product has been introduced by all of the companies. Here stands the interrelationship, all that we warned the President of the Council of Ministers, that what he said would not happen, that this was an improvement in domestic production. That's why, Mr. Chairman, to cut the story short, I suggest a few conclusions. So, what is this about, among other things, that those who may not have been directed enough, what is this about? This is where a system of driving papers and selling papers was created instead of selling domestic production. Papers are driving, right, Adnane? You know well, nod your head because you know it. It took you a year to figure it out and now you're nodding your head. They were driving papers, companies that didn't produce anything selling live cattle in papers. And to that should give us an answer to the Indirect Taxation Authority, to assign this commission, please a list of transactions. It's known how the Department of indirect, financial police, the D.A.'s police. You go, there's anticipated that a man bought whether, uh, June's alive, and there's a man making bricks. The other thing is that what was imported for the stamp and 14, it's just as good a quality to eat as a brick. And that's why I really think, tell Adnane. So, then, the Prime Minister is really, and I really thank him, and after a year, the man decided to try out that meat that's being imported here for all sorts of smuggling lobbys and after a year, and you tried a brick, didn't you? There, you didn't even recognize what you tried. You don't know if you've tried a brick or what they're importing that kind of smuggler. And in the end, he concluded that we had a problem. Is Jelde Sead? And you proudly in the name of those who import bricks and garbage. Okay. So to be exact, I'll give you if I have to and typed. Under 1. It is up to the Council of Ministers to be detailed and accurate in this report. Not that the Prime Minister is giving us a speech or that the minister is explaining that we have misread, according to this report and according to the items given here by the President of the Commission within 15 days. It doesn't take him more than 15 days, you can even cut it short, and according to him, we have a commission, we don't need to build an ad hoc committee polling committee, that the committee we have exams that have left without an adequate response, which Parliament would be informed of by the end of August. That's the first conclusion. Second conclusion, 2. This report that we have today is referred to the State Prosecutor, which shows from the point of view of the violation of the Law on State Institutions and the companies that have abused the decision if that is correct. Third conclusion 3. It is up to the Directorate of Direct Taxation to verify all transactions and transactions under this law and to provide precise, clear and detailed information on companies operating under this law with quantities of goods, financial transactions and time. Fourth conclusion, 4. It's the Council of Ministers' responsibility not to go on vacation, not that it's sixth, I apologize, fourth. It is up to the Council of Ministers to prepare a programme of 72 damages to companies, primary producers that this law has damaged. Fifth, 5. Parliament continues to work tomorrow in accordance with your sir, tomorrow and will work on commissions and plenary without going on vacations and obliges the Council of Ministers to act in the same way as to address key issues from the 63rd session of this House. That's these dots we still have in front of us. Sixth conclusion, 6. Further application of this law is suspended until answers are given according to today's conclusions. This is what I've just suggested to be the easiest one, just taking out a little water on this fire that's obviously, which I think you have any idea what I'm not going to say yet, but you sure as hell know Adnane can't do this, can't end this painfully, so let's get a clear rest, but he's gone from unidentified to those mo. Not the whole Council of Ministers, those who don't come to your work, they'll say, we didn't know, we weren't at work. So, Mr. Chairman, I'm handing you these conclusions and I'd like to ask you to read later. I really have no intention of speaking in detail on this information, not because I have no intention of annoying you, but because this loses any sport character anymore. This is such a crime against the people who chose us, if we let this go like this, that I just, I'm just ashamed to sit here. No matter what I was against all these here, these six yes, and it should be a shame for us to let such a law be passed. And I who have been against each time consider myself responsible, and may Bog help those who have convinced us of this, although I hope before they come to Bog that they will be held accountable for this. I, Adnane, will do everything on my part to answer when anyone involved in this crime has.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19205	The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Terzić asked for a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19206	First of all, I must say that I absolutely support this conclusion, here I can say on behalf of the Council of Ministers, that neither Parliament nor the Council of Ministers go on vacations, but that we are dealing with serious but daily, daily. Permanent session, Parliament and Council of Ministers, we have enough to deal with. The other thing is, I support sending the reports to the D.A.'s office. I don't think that's a bad conclusion either, but I absolutely can't accept the final findings that this is about crime and Bog help those who are dealing with crime, etc. 4.5 years ago, when you came to power, Mr. Lagumdžija, you declared everything that doesn't belong to the Alliance, to criminals, you started thousands of litigation disputes, and Bog seems to me none of them are in jail. Why? Because you've just deceived the people with that rhetoric and had a procreation that followed you blindly. So you can run, but you can't say this is a crime. And if you think because you're an advocate that you're allowed to do anything, I don't think so. Eh, now I will say on behalf of the Council of Ministers, Mr Lagumdžija. I'm going to give a look at every conclusion I thought at first, and it's probably better that it's in the end. So I ask you to be patient and listen. 73 So, the Commission's first conclusion is that talking to competent structures, associations and business associations shows countless disadvantages. First of all, I have to say that it's extremely unserious of the commission to say countless shortcomings based on which you declare this all a crime without stating what the shortcomings are. Countless inadequacy is a descriptive notion that does not give anyone the right to have a negative view of this report, let alone declare it all a crime. Concluding the Commission's position, the conclusion was precisely drawn up for reasons and talks with professional associations of farmers from the Federation and the RS, and the meat processors because we initially had conflicted sides where the processors sought to change customs tariffs and completely abolish customs duties and free trade contracts and farmers did not accept it because they asked to buy them out and then a compromise solution was made, and these are the quotas under the obligation of the ransoms agreed by farmers and the processing had no alternatives. I don't doubt that some, since in this country there are hundreds of associations, producers, processors, etc. that some were involved in the work of committees who had some conflicting opinions and that the conclusion was drawn from this, and the Council of Ministers' response is that we were forming a working group, which talked to farmers from the Federation and farmers from the RS together with meat-processing people reconciled what was not reconciled at that time, and that was that by processing, they insisted that free trade contracts be abolished, that customs duties should be removed so that they could import and process because they employ people and did not want to buy domestic raw materials. And I ask you to return the story where there are four-session stenograms in which we have discussed and tried to get consent from this Parliament, to amend the quota law. There are stenograms so read what was there to elaborate the representatives of the Council of Ministers. So we had processors who didn't want to buy from domestic producers, but wanted to get duty-free imports, which is what the Council of Ministers before us, by the way, be told, by some decisions, and made. The second conclusion speaks of chambers. The chambers had an impact on the adoption of this law. How normal this was because look at just now at the position of the Outer Chamber of Commerce asking for new quotas to be brought which you are challenging without a ransom obligation, which is normal that the Council of Ministers will not accept because this would cause great damage to agricultural producers. So your commission concluded that chambers as partners to governments at all levels did not have the opportunity to take active participation through their associations. Absolutely not the exact conclusion of the commission, the absolutely trendy conclusion of the commission. In the end, the Outer Chamber of Commerce gave the balances of the necessary and missing amounts of meat, the Outer Chamber of Commerce. It's no association. So the chamber was 100% involved in the chamber representative was involved in the task force which also proposed this way of solving. I don't know how much anyone listens to me, I want to come in because I know that probably by the time someone comes in, they're gonna start a trial, and so on. I want to get this into a stenogram, an explanation on behalf of the Council of Ministers on what it's all about. So, the chambers gave, the Wine Chamber of Commerce based on its balance sheets gave clear information on how many processors need certain parts of animal meat and how much it lacks on the BiH market. That's what the chamber did, and the commission's conclusion is absolutely not true and it's tending. Third, the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations during the preparation of these legal solutions achieved the most frequent communication only with individual 74 associations whose legality at least from the aspect of membership mass could be assessed as questionable. The Association of Farmers in BiH. So, I don't know what methods the commission has come up with at all with quantification that the association is legally, which is more numerous, which is not. I would like, as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, to continue to talk with associations, with relevant representatives and producers and processors, to have the Commission and the Council ofministers provide me with an accurate insight which is a legal and legitimate and numerous association, which is not. The Council of Ministers responds to this third point and that the Council of Ministers has formed a committee that has contributed most to the drafting of the Code of Quotas, headed by the Commission is the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and in no way are the representatives of the Association of Farmers in BiH, but the second structure of the association. The Association of Farmers and the Federation of BiH and RS and the Meat Processors' Association. Now, one of the most important conclusions is the fourth conclusion. This conclusion of the commission concerns several topics, and I will have to elaborate and comment on it as well. So, as it can be said, the law solves the problem of four companies, and that is what the MPs have said, it has been mentioned that this measure has been adopted because of four companies that have taken advantage of the opportunity to import according to the preferential treatment of a certain amount of meat. This measure has not been adopted for this reason. And it's a distortion of facts. And please visit the stenograms you have in four discussions when we passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Quotas. Everything else is purely politicizing, twisting facts and the Council of Ministers simply in such an environment does not want to talk. This law was passed solely because we had 2,000 tonnes of chicken on the BiH market that no one wanted to buy, 2,000 tonnes of frozen chicken. We had 3,000 pigs in the RS that no one wanted to buy and we had 1,500 heroes that no one wanted to buy. And that's why this law was passed. And that's why we've made it mandatory for them to buy out first, these market surpluses to solve the issue, and you don't have market surpluses in BiH today. You know why? Only because this law is correct and this law is not a criminal law and it was written by criminals, but by people who were concerned about the huge quantities of market surpluses we had in BiH and people who had tremendous pressure unlike you. And it would be more logical to put pressure on you because you present them here and not this one, the Council of Ministers. There's a lot of pressure to solve the market surplus issue. 2,000 tons of chicken was frozen and could not be sold. That's why this law was passed. The Council of Ministers must have meant to come up with a solution which, systematically, solves the problem of redemption and therefore we passed this law. The story of hyper, the story of hypertrophysing of carnivorous capacities has no basis, because if they're hypertrophysed, that's good, so we're not going to destroy them any further. The issue has been raised before the Council of Ministers, although we do not have the possibility to influence, we do not have the economic leverage to influence either agriculture or processing in BiH. The question has been asked how to provide and that those capacities of working processors, which employ people continue to do so and how to make primary producers, produce for a safe buyer. Furthermore, this conclusion states that imported meat was only repacked and placed on the market, which is not possible because the law states that imported meat must be used in production, and if someone has not done so, the Taxation Administration has all the instruments to establish it and to charge customs duties. And we, as far as I have information at the Department of Direct Taxation and we have one number of cases where abuse occurred, whether by chance or on purpose, that is now the thing that 75 will argue about, but for all these amounts, customs will be charged. So this isn't a system that provides crime. This is a system that prevents crime and for each individual case, where the indirect tax administration found that there were some malfeasances, so customs and levies will be charged. And you'll get information from the Department of Direct Taxation for that. But we can't say that it's a complete system, that the idea itself is criminal and corrupt if there were cases that someone used it, you have to admit that it happens in BiH all the time, but the system, depending on how the system fits, then it shows whether it's a support for corruption or a way, or if we have clear mechanisms to protect ourselves from it. And the clear mechanism is that the Indirect Taxation Authority has examined everything and has initiated procedures and will initiate customs collection procedures for all those found to have been misused by this decision. So the key question that you're potentialing today is absolutely twisting facts. This law was not passed because of four companies, this law was not adopted in principle by any company, but was adopted because we had a huge number of market surplus cattle in BiH and we tried to help agricultural producers get rid of them. And this quota system is settled. You don't have market surpluses today. We'll have a chance, I expect on the next one, and if Mr. Lagumdžija's conclusion passes, that we all work without rest, then in 15 days' time, you'll get on your desks a bill that will ensure that 20,000 calves from 160 to 350 kilos of tov. There is a clear mechanism and demand of the Outer Chamber of Commerce entity to load 20 thousand pigs equally clearly, the required quantities and this will be carried out by the Veterinary Authority with clear control from the very beginning to the end of the process. So, since we don't have any more market surpluses, we're going to go to this right now, but it's also going to be a proposal, if you want, you will, if you don't, it's going to be your thing, that for that contigent, 20,000 heroes and 20,000 pigs, you're going to get rid of paying customs, you're going to affirm, and that's going to help primary producers. In this case directly to the primary producers that this one will grow something that will then sell to the processors. The fifth conclusion, so it's clear, and I need to get who knows which time to repeat. The indirect taxation administration will charge every full tax that has imported and has not bought the domestic tax and will not be able to play the spirit of the law, according to the commission. The fifth conclusion, guaranteed, will be respected by a complete law. If someone committed a violation, it would be treated by a misdemeanor and it would be known exactly what the procedure for the violations was. The sixth, conclusion, Council of Ministers, this is what I just said, the Council of Ministers will be in an emergency procedure, and if Bog, if Mr Lagumdžija's conclusion passes, we'll end up in 10 to 15 days. If it doesn't pass, Mr. Lagumdžija, we'll have to wait for September. But I have no use for it if I don't have you, then it's a color for me to get some rest, so in September, we'll all go back together. But the proposal for a conclusion is perfect. The seventh conclusion, you could have written less conclusions then, so you wouldn't have to treat 16. You wrote. So when it comes to yours, cancel tariff quotas, etc. I reiterate that imported meat cannot be delivered directly to the market and is not true that imported meat was delivered to the market. If there was an infringement, it's an indirect taxation administration has a mechanism to determine, if it was, I can't guarantee for 3,000 tons of some meat that a couple hundred kilos didn't come, so if it was, the indirect taxation administration has a mechanism to determine that and the indirect tax administration will charge the last mark of customs and overworked for that meat. In addition, 76 should be pointed out that we had some companies that could not possibly have been brought into the system to buy our domestics, and we finally brought them in to be forced to buy, and we see that there is no surplus on the market now, especially the pig in RS. The eighth conclusion should be noted that the same raw materials for the production of salami are used in both BiH and Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro, Germany continues to be prices and raw materials everywhere due to the fact that high prices are sold through concentrated meat, and the rest goes to the production of salami. I say again, it's all over the world like that. Furthermore, the finding that extra profits are made is also not true because on the market you can very easily find products, chicken products from Serbia-Montenegro that only cost 3 brands. So there is no extra profit if you have 3 marks of this, from Serbia-Montenegro, you can't make extra profit because no one will buy it for you. And all of these are arbitrary flat-rates of certain parts of the association, and I don't know you who don't, and I think as a serious commission, however, with so much, that the commission should have made a little more effort in making views. Conclusion 11, an integral part of the Decision on duty-free imports, is also the Instructions on the management of tariff quotas. It must therefore be submitted clear evidence of the purchase of meat for domestic products. We've got it all and it's gonna get you, it's no problem at all. And there are some things that Mr. Lagumdžija was looking for in his conclusions, which I'm not sure the IRS has the mandate to do. So, since the Directorate for indirect, to be precise, since the Directorate for indirect taxation has led the process, has taken over from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and led the process of granting import quotas, so they have complete documentation and inputs and exits and the Directorate for indirect taxation in that segment can provide you with a report individually for each case, but the Directorate for Indirect Taxation cannot, I don't think, in detail, those things that you asked for. Please,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19207	You go ahead, Mr. Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19208	The 14th conclusion concerns something that is not at all in the work of the Council of Ministers. We don't have any ingenuity in that sense and I'm surprised that the commission, the parliamentary commission makes this conclusion when we don't have any ingenuity at all, it's a complete this problem is the ingenuity of this, the agriculture ministry of the entity. What we can help, this sixth conclusion that we have accepted and that we will free farmers from customs to renew flocks etc. I mean, so be careful, but the Council of Ministers cannot systematically address the issue of livestock in BiH. These are ad hoc measures. The 15th conclusion, I fully accept. And, 16. I think that the Veterinary Office can report this without any problem, me. We don't have a chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19209	There is, there is a college that takes care of the session. Tell me, Mr. 77.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19210	Here, I'd like so much for a statement from the Council of Ministers on the Commission's locks.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19211	Thank you very much, please. The replica of Mr. Lagumdžija. Have Mr. Sead Avdić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19212	Mr. Chairman, it's incorrect what you said, Mr. Chairman, that 4.5 years ago, all those who are not in the Alliance were declared criminals, it's not true. It's not true that thousands of criminal disputes have been launched and that they've all failed. What is true, Mr. Chairman, is that when your council of ministers was enthroned, when you won 2.5 years ago, that there was a rebellion in Zenica of prisoners who for the first time in the history of the planet had demands from some prisoners, people asked to go home because you came to power. They said what we were doing here. That's right. And you ask, and now we have information about what's going on in the female prison. When you won, people wanted to go home. I therefore call upon you to support the law or even better, to prepare it as you have been obliged by the Peace Implementation Council, to take away the looted property, to take away what you call them, to the companies that abuse your laws, which you claim to be ingenious, to take away those owners of these companies from the ones on which they robbed taxpayers. No wonder you skipped conclusion 12 and 13 in your comments. Conclusion 12 says that the primary meat producers are on their knees. Conclusion 12, is an introduction to my conclusion to make up a programme to compensate people for the primary producers. No wonder you skipped conclusion number 13, which is just asking the Directorate for indirect taxation to do what I specifically explained. If I have fully understood your support for my findings, then even if they are not respected, I expect you to be a serious man, that you act as prime minister, because these conclusions are enough for you to accept them, which I have suggested, to be realized by them. Mr. Chairman, the envoy was in negotiations with the state delegation in the state-run negotiations on the Free Trade Treaty and its suspension and at the same time, an employee of one, I am not going to say five but three companies, which is why you did all this. Your envoy, your papers he had as your personal envoy, you well know who he is. And it's not about four companies, I'll fix you up. It's about starting three firms. Three companies took over 80% of this contingent, three companies, and one third of the company took advantage of less than 2% of this contingent. And in the end, I would really ask that every time you come into one situation to answer for what's going on today, don't call on what happened when you were little. And I told you directly, and in conclusion, that's exactly what it stands for. The crime was committed by driving papers and it is in the information that the information of the preliminary Administration for 78 indirect taxation is very clear about this, that people bought papers rather than domestic production. And instead of investigating it, to say thank you for distracting us, you're making us all a little bit more silly than you can be.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19213	Well, of course he has to, he just doesn't know what
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19214	Well, of course he does, so we started.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19215	What would I say now, I think you have the word of course, go ahead. Just Mr. Lagumdžija, I mean, it really doesn't make sense that we're being insulted in Parliament like this, I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19216	So you were away when he spoke to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19217	Well, here's what I'm responding to.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19218	Well, I don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19219	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19220	And I belong to one political option. If that political option has no need to react to what Zlatko said about criminal charges, etc., as far as I'm concerned, it can continue in that direction. I'd just like to get back to the point of the debate. And the point of the debate is that I didn't read the 12 conclusions correctly, but I was already talking about it when I confirmed the sixth. So we support this commission's conclusion and surely we still have problems with that. That's why we're going to solve it this way, but we can't solve the problem with politics. We can use these ad hoc measures to release the customs and taxes of those who want to do this, but also to ensure that after that measure we do not get qualifications as we do now. Your representative Mr. Lagumdžija said there were four firms, so I said that in four companies. Three companies, one company, it doesn't matter at all, please, so I wasn't sitting, I was when Selim was talking. Mr Lagumdžija, please don't abuse the role of MPs and twist the facts. This, the law was not passed because of the processing, but because of the production that had 2,000, watch out here you can, you can now run any disputes, I'm telling you, 2,000 tons of chicken meat has been frozen. Niko one wanted to buy it in BiH. 3,000 pigs were grown by no one to buy in BiH, and 1,500 heroes were anyone in BiH who did not want to buy from the processors. We just made a commitment to reprocessing that they had to buy it, and that's the reason, not those companies. And let me tell you, the law itself has told who can. So not who has the technological process and this is clearly stated in the explanation, the laws and instructions on law enforcement, that the technological 79 process, I can't give you a precise interpretation of this, instruction but it's clearly said that the company has to have a technological process in order to reduce the number of companies that are going to do so. We don't care if one or more companies bought all the market surplus in BiH. It doesn't matter to us, and it wasn't at all a wish to settle it by law. The 13th conclusion, Mr Lagumdžija, is certain that caution is never enough, and in that spirit we absolutely agree and support the Commission's conclusion. But since I did not, you are proposing certain conclusions, I would suggest on behalf of the Council of Ministers that the House of Representatives accepted the information and that the House of Representatives gives consent to the Council of Ministers to proceed with the application of the quotas as requested, please, the Outer Chamber of Commerce through its associations. Well, that's my suggestion. The same will remain in the stenogram and you can do whatever you want with it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19221	I thank Mr. Terzić, the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Please, so we have two more registered debaters. This debate has been going on for a long time. You're all calling for the five minutes I suggested you fit in. No Niko respects that. I beg you, let us bring this discussion to an end. Mrs. Majkić asked for a replica. There's a minute for the replica. After that, Mr. Sead Avdić and Muhamed Moranjkić discussed and that we should bring an end to the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19222	Just a quick question. I respect what Mr. Terzić said, but please explain to me what technological procedure Mimo has imported 95% of those two quotas or 70% of the rest. What technological procedure? So first question. Secondly, once again, the company Lijanović, which is in the Federation, cannot remember which place, told me, all of these companies that are listed in this report offered 200 heroes for the yuppie. And no one wanted to buy any. I, what I'm saying, can also show you in the senogram that people have provided that information. So, argumentally, indeed.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19223	Thank you very much. Do you need to take your word again, Mr. Terzić? There's no need. Mr. Sead Avdić has his word. Let him prepare more Muhamed Moranjkić and please give me a brief and Haz Felić, he did, he applied.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't think we should react. This is a good thing we're talking about this way. I think very well of BiH. This is a good case for us to hone on it never to make the same decision we made again, the law amending the Customs Tariff Act, to teach this country to simply run economic policy, not to solve current problems in this 80-state BiH. Ad hoc measures dragged us here, so I just can't figure out where I am. What ad hoc measure? On behalf of whom does ad hoc measure? Do we have any economic policy here? Do we have anything? Do we have a PRSP? We do, don't we? Estimates, the team of experts is doing their job. So what ad hoc measure? Which means, I repeat, under one, the tariff numbers that were given in this law were, the law on amending the law, neither then nor today at the top of the list of priorities of this BiH state. Remember, Mr. Chairman, when the associations discussed here. They poured milk and milk processing through customs crossings, through the Doljan. Afterwards, they sought a law amending the Customs Tariff on meat processing. Right? Couldn't you have felt there that these interests were somehow not this harmonised, harmonised. So the objectives were this law amending the Customs Tariff Act, so the tariff numbers weren't at the top of the priority list. Don't use that argument two thousand tons of chicken meat. So if they didn't have reprocessing, if they didn't have repromary, so what they were looking for then simply in BiH there's re-promatter. Well, you know a few farms were brought before bankruptcy for that. Which means it's not accurate. No, not for sure about that, certainly about that. Which means that these tariff numbers are skillfully constructed, skillfully created crisis and manipulated part of the simple government in BiH. Number one. Two, the fact of the tenacity to pass this law amending the Customs Tariff Act for the third time indicates enough that something is wrong there, something simple is confused in BiH, relieved by Parliament's discipline to pass for the third time a law amending the Customs Tariff Act. That these words of mine are true, we are also told by these tents before the BiH Parliament, Mr. Chairman. It is high time we deal with both this and the Council of Ministers solve the situation. It is not the aim of the Ministry of Agriculture and those noble goals that really promote, which are quite correct, noble goals. None of us can be against that. You know what the goals are, Mr. Chairman? What you just said. A new contingent of imports of this meat. New contingent. Let me tell you what this is about. You simply cannot lead this country astray in such a way. A new meat contingent, what you just said. And you can see they're already on the threshold, they're simply getting a new meat contingent under this law. It's called edible waste meat, Mr. Chairman. Food waste meat, machinery used chicken imported into BiH at 1.14 KM. Please, 1.14. And finally, to say public change in BiH gave an assessment of this law. Condemned this law and there is no rhetoric, ore that will change it. Public change, which already is a public change in BiH, is a public change. Read a little and simple, and this one, survey people, survey people, and you'll get it all figured out. So, from this point on, it's a few, I think, conclusions. It was the wrong and missed decision by both the Council of Ministers and the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of the Law amending the Customs Tariffs Act. The realisation of the amendment to this law has not been followed, it has not been controlled. It is freely said that it has a number of manipulations, simple artificial documentation that has been given, etc. If we call on the Directorate for indirect taxation, so we can't say, so that administration doesn't work with its full scope and capacity, nor does it have all control mechanisms, simply from the border to the simplest place of processing. 81 Under three, I think what has to be said, which means the law has not met expectations, it needs to be reconstructed as a whole and a new law amending customs tariff laws, primarily with the aim of encouraging domestic production and exports. Incentive of domestic production and exports, take a complex of measures rather than simply associate or go directly from the aspect of an interesting lobby, especially import lobbies in BiH. And if our commission had, I would have said by me, this treasure, outlined what's going on around this case around this law. He simply examines this case as a whole and documentes these allegations that have been discussed here today. So I repeat it one more time. Those in front of Parliament are manipulated people, naive, simply paid 50 KM a day. The one who creates it is the vice president of a political party. Do you know that? The vice president of a political party in BiH. I beg you, it's pure politicization, Vice President. One company founded its own attractive presidency, OHR its attractive high representative, attractive government and everything else. Do you not recognize what is done? Well, that's all the lobbys in BiH. That's the term lobby. Institutions that fight simply for the benefit of individual companies and simply companies. Which means, if that's not clear, then it's really sad. Then it's really sad. So, one more time, get rid of it, please, and forget that new contingent. A new contingent based on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19225	Okay, uh, thank you, Mr. Avdić. Of course, the chairman of Terzić whenever you ask for a word, you have the right to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19226	Look, you've received information from the Council of Ministers. And I accept that you absolutely have the right to agree with her, not agree, to prohibit the Council of Ministers from continuing to apply, etc. But I don't accept Mr. Avdić that just because you're an MP, just because you have a thousand marks more income than any minister and people who work at the Directorate of Direct Taxation, you make such a joke with your statements and your findings that it's a crime, that corruption, etc. I don't think anyone gave you the right to do that. In the end, if there are clear indications that this is crime and corruption, then you are responsible and obliged to report it to the authorities, not to declare here and speak anything that may come to your mind. Mr. Avdić, you're talking about the Council of Ministers, you're talking about state institutions and I as an MP, I have to tell you the shame of what you said. You have the right to establish yourself on this information of the Council of Ministers but you have no right to label here and insinuate and to say that public change knows very well what has been achieved by these quotas. What public exchange are you talking about? I ask you to understand that if you want your dignity to protect someone, then you must also protect the dignity of others. If there is any indication that crime and corruption are, here you go, running the proceedings, but in such a casual way you talk about BiH state institutions, be careful, talk about the state, Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19227	Okay, thanks. Sead, come on this, reply to the replica, very briefly please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19228	I'm sorry this, which the chairman benefits, in the inability of argumentation uses a terminology that is unacceptable to the extreme. So when we talk about arguments, it's another way of communicating and communicating. Two, very often called for help, conditioned by the Alliance that made what it was said by the chairman, which is extremely incorrect and unprincipled. So whenever arguments run out, he also calls for assistance from the Alliance and the Alliance's authorities from 2000 to 2002. And, under three, I didn't talk about corruption, nor did I elaborate corruption. If Mr. Chairman found himself here, that's another story. And in the end, simply individuals in this government don't represent, they're not states. State it's me. It's a basic elemental rule. We're passing through and the state stays and lives its life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19229	Thank you. And, in the end, we have Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić. muhamede, come on, please. Last time you didn't listen to me, now listen to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19230	♪ Do me hard sometimes in the front ♪ ♪ If it wasn't up to me ♪
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19231	Last time you disobeyed me, now respect my argument, fit in in in five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19232	I'll take the middle of what these guys used, and here I am looking at the clock. Gentlemen, as soon as we've touched life's problems, we all see that we've triggered an avalanche, a storm that in a certain way worries me as a man and as an MP, and I think it should concern the entire state, including executive and other legislative bodies at all levels. This is about one to five products. In other words, even one product if I want to talk and see at all, that we are in a position to be helped by Bog, if we continue like this. To talk about 2,000 tons of chicken, you well know that's not true. Two thousand chicken meats are total and 13% are used. It's an account, not math, and it says we've solved 260 tons in this country. At that point, was it a way to at least pour a drop of water into the flames that appeared? Maybe it is. And that's why I wouldn't be so angry at the law, because at the time he was like that, here's someone knocking on our door. 83 What I mean is this. For two years, in this House and I have twice called on the Council of Ministers to try to achieve the strength and opportunities to make a full law on tariffs and customs because he is a cancer wound to some of the country's economic and life problems. He hasn't found it up to now, or he hasn't been able to do it, I urge it to be done. I, when I saw that he was trying in this parliament, or the Council of Ministers, to partially solve problems from product to product, and the tariff and customs treatment of several tens of thousands of products, and you see only one when he was pulled out, which is a storm, then I became involved in that colateum and tried to suggest a solution to the Minister's Council of Ministers' Farms in BiH. I've informed you here, what an answer I've received. I've received a reply from the Council of Ministers that I've come to the wrong conclusion and accepted and that I'm also trying to tie this issue to horses, donkeys and mules. It's heading 0101. If it wasn't pathetic and sassy, it would be really funny. When I showed the minister his signature on that document, then he didn't have words because he didn't believe me, he meant it or he tried to say that I was making it up here and saying it like I was in the theater of some things. So, let me conclude, let me be brief after all. I support the conclusion of our committee, and that doesn't mean that even the chairman of the Council of Ministers didn't see any extremely necessary and smart things in solving these problems, and even some of those things that he wouldn't name, I, as a businessman, support. I support the conclusions and demand that these conclusions be made in a certain way, perhaps once again, and that the Council of Ministers sit down and do the job properly. Thank you. Unfortunately, I mean, in this particular case, we don't see wood forest. And in this particular case, we've thrown out a tree, and we're trying to protect the forest with that tree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19233	Am I the forest of wood or the trees of the forest?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19234	I said nicely, Mr. Chairman, that we can't see the forest from a tree.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19235	It's a good thing we know that, too. Mr. Hazim Felić and then we'll conclude the debate, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19236	I thank Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, from the opening presentation of Mr. Doka and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, we have heard the reasons for the adoption of this law. Looking at these reasons, we can say that the law justified the reasons for its adoption, given the quantities of meat in BiH that were on stock. This is simply illustratingly seen on page 4 where it is talked about the quantities withdrawn and imported. The complete stock in BiH of these meat categories that have been, has been spent and we can see from the facts, from this review, that all import quotas have not been met. Why aren't they filled? They are not fulfilled for the simple reason that all the meat that was on the supplies in BiH has been bought. This was the purpose and purpose of the adoption of this law and that purpose and meaning were fully met. And I think, by doing so, the law justifies the reasons why we brought it. 84 I just have to tell you for a little while, really some MPs have been talking casually about that this, someone, etc. They judge the peers of this law one way or another. It would have been better if they had talked to those who produced this hero or chicken and asked them what the effects of this law were, rather than without any arguments assessing what the law is and what the effects of the adoption of this law are. We can say freely that the primary agricultural producers are completely satisfied with the application of this law, because all quantities of meat in live cattle, or in frozen meat in Bosnia and Herzegovina, have been bought in this way. The primary manufacturing industry has reprocessed and we have a finished product in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Those are the basic reasons. I think in this chain, or in this cycle that would be helpful to the primary agricultural producers, the only thing missing is what the chairman announced to us, and that's an amendment to the Law on Importing Throats. It's the only thing that primary producers need is for the cycle to be completely closed. This strengthens the primary agricultural producers in such a way as to be able to import the cycle after the cycle, so that they can load the judo and that they can, i.e. the pigs and the rest, and that the processing industry has raw materials. This is the meaning and purpose of adopting this law and the law is the objectives of law-making are fully respected. I think that was the goal, and I think that's how we helped those who asked us to help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19237	Thank you, Hazima. Come on, fine. Here you go, Bešlagić. Short.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19238	I'd like to discuss this discussion and one of them is for, one against and this Felić now as he says, I'd beg the answer, if it's all so ideal as now here's Felić said that they're satisfied why we don't have any more of that chicken, but that's a hero, not a pig? We don't have anything. What happened? It happened that because of this uncertainty and because of all this, people sold it and said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The bottom line is, we don't have any records so we can tell here now if Novaković is right to have 10 new ones there. I, as far as I know in the Tuzlan canton, have already closed 10 sawmill farms. The point of the problem is that we seem to be wrong, we're wrong when we say that the ideal law is an effect. I personally think it's here that we should get a divorce. No more bags, no more sawdust, no more heroes, no more pigs, no more nothing. There's nothing in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19239	Okay. We reopened the discussion, the second round of discussion. Come on, please, let's get this over with. Here, you've set up enough of what's already called two replicas, two reactions. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, then Mr. Felić. Let's close the discussion so we can go to the plea.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19240	So someone can say I'm emotional and I have to be emotional. I spent hours and hours with manufacturers and processors trying to get to something that suits all people. Since December 2003, when they announced they would block border crossings between Christmas and New Year's holidays and damage the state. They're sitting in my office. And that's why I might be emotional. Because in every way possible, I've tried to come up with some formula that will prove effective. 15 days ago, I was sitting here in this hall with 50 representatives of agricultural producers, processors, not only of meat-processors, but of milk and cereals and of all possible sectors. People are asking us to do this, because it turned out to be a very good measure to do this for the others. People who are working on the processing of cereals are asking us to do the same thing, to buy all the grains that are in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and therefore to release 6% of customs duties for a certain amount. And everyone else in this thing sees a chance that they can survive and fight competition on the Bosnian Herzegovina market. I'm talking about processors. Processors are also important segments. They hire people. Look, it's not in the company's purse. So these are the capacities that employ people and we also have to take care of such capacities. And we, I've tasked the Foreign Chamber of Commerce with all associations to clearly balance all possible production agricultural products in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as much as we have the opportunity to produce in this period, how long it takes for processors, not to say that we have such absurdities that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has a milling processing capacity wheat is imported with 6% customs duty, and flour is imported without customs duty. We're directly tearing down our processing facilities in the mill industry. We need to find some measures here, too. Unfortunately, we solve them through changes and additions to customs tariffs, instead of being dealt with by entity governments, because that's their jurisdiction. And now that we're trying to do something that we're going to help both manufacturers and processors survive, to survive on the Bosnia and Herzegovina market in conditions of applying the free trade contract, etc., then you're turning us into criminals and people who are corrupt and who only work for one company. And nothing was done by heart. It's all by the quantities and quantifications given by the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, which you know very well that it's not a state institution, so it's not a government institution. And I'm just asking that in this direction that Mr. Felić spoke of. The measure contributed to the lack of market surpluses in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What it was, and here if you want me to say it myself, is that only in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the whole region, without talking in Europe, in Bosnia and Herzegovina we had a system where people were growing chickens without knowing who they were selling them to. That people were growing a hero, and they didn't know who they were selling them to, pigs and everything. We've created a system that, with long-term contracts and they know, they start growing and they know the moment they start growing it to who they're going to sell it to if they grow it. Why don't we look that way? Is that crime and corruption? And it's not true that I'm talking to Mr. Avdić on the grounds that I have no arguments, but I'm just responding to your rhetoric that is rhetoric without arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19241	Okay. More, here we go. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19242	Short to tell Selim to answer, the primary agricultural producers are waiting for this law, which depends on the Council of Ministers, to announce for a simple reason that they will earn 5% in comparison to the import of now-to-be free-to-minimum customs duty. So they're waiting for the law, that is, this announcement announced by the chairman of the Council of Ministers himself. And one more thing I forgot to say. To be sure, i.e. that possible abuses would be revealed very simply, we can do so in a way that the competent ministry of the Federation and Republika Srpska requires how many kinds of meat are purchased. Let's match this data and we'll have it. Any difference is abuse. I think it's very simple to find out.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19243	Okay. Please, let's just get this over with. We've got two more replicas, right? One minute at a time. Mr. Lagudmžij and Mrs. Majkić. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija. Please, Mr. Lagumdžija, this is a replica. Please blend in. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19244	This is where we heard from the chairman that, correct me if I'm wrong 3,000 tons, 2,000 tons, 1,500 tons. 3,000 tons of it. It's all in tones. It's all in tones. Okay. Is a pig 2,000, is at least pigs in tones. In the information you've given us, you have completely different data and you see Felic's research difference in them. Here you can see that pork is bought 917.2 tons, beef 284,3 and meat of poultry 754.7 tons. It's sinking. Well, no, I'm buying you out.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19246	Please, we can't talk to five of us all of a sudden.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19247	It's obvious from the information the prime minister gave us here, the data we've received here that the government has a general chaos in official information on how much it's really been bought out. The method that Mr. Felić is very well-known for 87 investigative journalism, or something else shows what the difference is. You can see that the difference is huge compared to what people claim and what you wrote here. I really think this, to tell us Mr. Prime Minister, I accept your information that you've solved, but just to grant you a new quota. This information costs 8 million marks. There's 8 million marks here, so... you're looking for a new 8 million marks to be taken by any gang. You are looking for, you are ready to even accept our information and information from Kunić's commission, which you claimed to be incorrect, like this. I'll take that information, just give me the new 8 million to share with any gang. Oh, come on, don't be rude. This is about the goals being achieved. Eight million was stolen from the budget. Target has been reached.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19248	Okay. Thank you. Only, Mr. Terzić, you'll get the word only Mrs. Majkić will give you a short line. You'll get it right away. Write it down for a minute, if you'll forget. Here you go. Short.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19249	I'll just be a minute. You've taken one heavy obligation. You know that agriculture is at entity level. You decided to finish the job yourself without consulting either entity ministry. What are their ambitions, or the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, to keep myself on it and not to go on and on and on. So these are partners with three skis you were supposed to talk about so there wouldn't be any of these inconveniences and all these conversations. That's one thing. And the other one. When are we going to know exactly how many animals there are in this country for slaughter, for meat processing? The moment the Veterinary Office finishes its work and we finish the marking that has been paid from EU funds so far and only 30% of the marking has been completed so far. Why? I mean, without that information, we can't talk. Everything else is a story by heart. No, you have to provide that information.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19250	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Briefly, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the final debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19251	When it comes to marking what you're talking about, I have to give you one piece of information, probably not in the media yet, but yesterday I was with Ambassador Hemfriz who's going to Banja Luka tomorrow to hit a hundred-thousand mark on the 88 ear of an animal. Now it's beef, or it's pigs, or I don't know, but the 100 grand stamp that the Veterinary Office registered. Look, let me tell you, someone told you that 30%. Someone told you that. You as a representative have the right and to say, you take the words as well. I'm telling you 100 thousand stamps, and it can't be 30% because it would mean three times more cattle, I mean animals in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, watch out, that's it, please. That's it. Don't say that. So there's a clear record and don't look for a trap or anything in it. A hundred thousand animals are being marked tomorrow. 100,000 stamps, which means we have computer software, we have passports and all documents for 100,000 animals in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If that's even 30%, let's say it's good, because people, we just started setting up the Veterinary Office that we inherited and didn't function last year. That's, no, no, first question. I'll wait for him to finish the conversation. No, no, this is your first question I'm sorry was.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19252	Not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19253	Yeah, so it's absolutely not true that the entity ministries and the foreign trade chamber didn't participate in this whole thing. I've read you three conclusions. You're not listening to me, I'm gonna have to take your stenogram. So the Foreign Chamber of Commerce determined the balances. Two entity agriculture ministers worked in the task force and the Council of Ministers cannot, Mrs. Majkić, the Council of Ministers cannot pass a bill to Parliament unless it has the consent of entity governments. So this is what we got, here's Mr. Novaković knows that the first two times he couldn't vote for this law just because he didn't have the consent of the Republika Srpska government. Isn't that right, Mr. Novaković? So we got this and this is a product, the law is the product of all three governments. Now, Mr. Lagumdžija, I have to admit I've forgotten a little what it is, no, yeah, I know. Look, when you talk about numbers, I came here to give you clear and precise 16 conclusions of the commission of this home I give you answers. The committee of this house and Mr. Kunić did not discuss the report given by the Council of Ministers. I have not seen in any of your conclusions that the report given by the Council of Ministers has been discussed, but said of the public debate which was at issue and normally that Mr Kunić as an integral part of a strong opposition bloc will draw out only what is negative about the things that the government has done. There is no question at all about the quantities and quantifications sent to you by the Council of Ministers for information. So I'm talking about the conclusions of your commission, Mr Lagumdžija. And those flat-rates of yours, about 8 million crime, etc. I can't, I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19254	No microphone has been included since the start of discussion 89...information No 04-2-02-435705 since 15.04.2005. Information, all information on the results of the implementation of the BiH Customs Tariff Supplement Act relating to meat imports. And in that information on, I have to admit quite untransparently standing on page 4 broken by the tariffs of boneless beef, very high-quality meat, one million five hundred sixty thousand and eighty-five marks the value of the tax that was forgiven. Fresh pork, broken, bought 284 tons. Nothing. And there, and it's not 2000? No microphone turned on I'm just telling you about it, so I didn't invent 8 million here stands -- importing the value of imports was 8.225.923 marks, and the value of the import duties that you released, halalysed, disbursed, whatever you want 7474.309 marks. That's where you stand. And you're asking us to give him the green light to do this one more time. And if you hadn't given us any information and yet you're declaring my trust in your information, which is, to say the least, catastrophic. So I'm telling you about very exact data.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19256	And my people,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19257	Well, it is a disaster. You're right, Šefik. The disaster is so painful that we've come all the way here. The Katatrofa is that after a year from the application of this law, we first have information. A year ago, the law came into force. After three months, we should have been given information. This information is 9 months late for this House. And it's against the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19258	Mr. Terzić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19259	The law said Mr. Lagudmžij, Mr. Lagudmžija the zakon said that when a quarter of the quantities were approved. Let's decide to submit the information to Parliament. He didn't say three months. Two and a half months, maybe three months, that information is in the House of Representatives, and when you read the information I gave you, then I must show you what you have, Mr Lagumdžija, that is Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Representatives' House, the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, number 01/351-25-21,22/05 And here we have the report on the results of the implementation of the Law on the Customs Tariff of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which refers to the import of meat, which means 90 reports based on the information you read in detail and the number etc., which was submitted by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and the Council of Ministers in the procedure. In this report by your commission, Mr Lagumdžija, the information sent by the Council of Ministers is not mentioned at all. You have no quantification of any, nor are you talking about it, but you're talking about four companies, you're talking about the words said, a lot and a lot, a lot of disadvantages, etc. etc. There's no talk at all about the report you mentioned. And that is why I am asking the Council of Ministers, regardless of all this politicisation that is being made in this House, the Council of Ministers has sent the information required by law and this Parliament needs to be determined according to that information.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19260	It'll be fixed.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19261	And that's why I ask you to accept or reject information. Not to talk about things for hours and hours about things that aren't the subject of information.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19262	Of course. So you have a minute, literally a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19263	Mr. Prime Minister, it's you, so you're a fool. You know very well that what you're saying is not true. Here in your information stands, reminding you that you are the law that we are talking about today that it has entered into force on 23.7.2004. And in this law it says that you are obliged, quote – three months after the application of the law, or after the use of 1/3 of the approved quotas inform the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. [[Common discussion]] Three months or so or sick. It's been three months. What are you waiting for? Or what are you trying to do?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19265	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19266	Well, after three months, you're required to inform us. You informed us after a full nine months. Here. 91
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19267	Okay. Please, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19268	And people, no, I don't. If he gets sick or one thing, you know what he is or you know what he is. If it happens either three months, or 1/3 you're obliged to inform. Those three months must have happened a year ago. So it says here, or Mr. Terzić, and don't let it get us out of math into the first basic logic of math. That's right, Zorić. What is it or what is it? Explain to a man what's the difference between and and or. Even Zorić claims I'm right. So, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19269	Okay. Time's up, Mr. Lagudmžij. We can't go on and on about what's called running these discussions. Time's up. I said a minute. This is the fifth, sixth time. I mean, I really have to react. Don't be mad.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19270	So, Mr. Chairman, I just wanted to make a public statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19271	Okay, okay, you said it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19272	that the chairman is saying incorrect things.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19273	And my people.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19274	Okay. Mr. Terzić. Here you go. Well, come on, brother, by morning, it's no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19275	So, with respect to Mr. Lagumdžija and I, for the sake of the public, I must say, it's not true that I'm saying the wrong things. Well, you've read it yourself now. It's been said for three months, or when we approve 1/3. We only approved the report and sent you an immediate report. Nothing happened in the first three months.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19276	I've concluded the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19277	As far as I know, there's less than 1/3 sick people. But I was taught that it's less than 1/3. 92
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19278	It's been three months, nine months, three months.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19279	But it's been said in three months if all quantities are approved, or, or the moment the 1/3 is approved. We have approved and sent you immediately to Parliament. There. It's for the public.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19280	Thank you very much. Please, I'm the one who concluded the debate. These were only the replicas of the chairman, these were two replicas of the exhibition. Please, a little attention now. May I have your attention, please? So, may I have your attention, please? May I have your attention, please? The debate is closed. These were two replicas for the presentation of the Council of Ministers chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, so we do. Mr. Gligorić, the debate is closed. These were replicas. I can't take it anymore. Please! Please have a nice discussion closed. Well, we can't have a debate until morning. There's got to be some order here. Please nicely, I have told the last debater who was, after the discussion of Hazim Felić, followed, as it is called, replicas and there is no now developing discussions, after the debate was concluded. Disclosure's over. Please. All right. Consider it what you think. Please. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. Dear colleagues and colleagues, so it has to end here, I mean, it doesn't really make sense. May I have your attention, please? So here's the thing. We have information from the Council of Ministers that we have here and a proposal from the Council of Ministers to vote on this information and therefore vote on that information. We have a report from our commission that is, in the good part or in the most part, the contrary to the Council of Ministers' information. We'll vote on that, too. Please! Well, we'll also vote on the commission's report. And we do, please, and we have a proposal for conclusions that Mr Lagumdžija suggested in writing. We'll also vote on those conclusions. Please, nice. We're voting now. We're moving on to a plea. Prepare to vote. We are voting on information from the Council of Ministers, so on information from the Council of Ministers. Prepare to vote. Vote now, and I'll vote for it. Well, there isn't. You have to bring the end to it once. Well, he can't do this. 93 - 19 for, 7 against, 5 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. I find the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has adopted the Council of Ministers' Information. We're moving on to a statement on our commission's report. We're voting on our commission's report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Please, nice. - 16 for, 8 against, 7 abstentions. Enough entity majority. The Commission's report is also adopted. Please, nice. Let's move on. Please, well, this is a reflection, please nice, this is a reflection of what we have in Parliament. Let it be seen. Please, nice. I put everything in order to vote. So let's see. I told you, I told you in the opening section that I put separate on the vote of these two things, because the information of the Council of Ministers and the report of the commission is broadly contrary to each other. But here you voted the way you voted, and I put it out. Let's move on. Give me the conclusions of Mr. Lagumdžija, the proposal for a conclusion. Mr. Lagumdžija, I'm asking you to help me. I can't read this.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19281	I want to read to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19282	Yes, you can. Get up, first conclusion read. Please, nice. May I have your attention, please? We're in phase. Please, nice. Mr. Lagumdžija, sit down. If I can't, you tell me right now that I can decrypt your handwriting. So, the first proposal for Mr Lagumdzija's conclusion is -- it is the Council of Ministers' duty to read the text well, to be detailed,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19283	We have documented and accurate evidence of this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19284	Therefore, it is up to the Council of Ministers to give detailed, documented and precise evidence of this report 94
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19285	and according to paragraphs 15 and 15, the Commission shall examine the allegations which have been left without an adequate response, which Parliament would have been informed of by the end of August.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19286	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19287	Can I?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19288	We vote. We're out of debate, Mr. Terzić. Okay. Please, the chairman of the Council of Ministers for this. Please. So please. The chairman of the Council of Ministers. Just please, Mr. Terzić, you're right, you can say this at the pay phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19289	Not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19290	Wait. The chairman of the Council of Ministers is at stake. So wait. Well, because he's the chairman. Well, well, well. Because he's the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19291	You biti also be the chairman of Mr. Gligorić, so you too will be able to use those benefits. Don't worry. So it's not abuse, Mr. Gligorić. I agree with the conclusion proposed by Mr Lagumdžija, but there is no need for you to bind us for the next 15 days and that I have already filed for each, for all 16 points, on behalf of the Council of Ministers. Don't make me have to do all this now, we'll deliver it in writing, but don't ask the Council of Ministers again in 15 days. So I'm suggesting not to adopt the first conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19292	Okay. We're moving on to a plea. Please, the chairman of the Council of Ministers has said his. We're going to make a statement on Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's first conclusion. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 95 - 15 for, 12 against, 4 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. I find this conclusion adopted. Mr. Lagudmžij, please read conclusion 2. Turn on his mic.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19293	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19294	Turn on the microphone to Mr. Lagumdjia.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19295	I've turned it on. The report is directed to the state prosecutor to show that from the point of view of a possible violation of the Law on State Institutions, as well as firms that have misused the decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19296	You heard the suggestion. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Vote now. - 13 for, 8 against, 7 abstentions. There is no entity majority from Republika Srpska's entity. We don't have a member of the College here. This goes to the college. Read the conclusion, proposal for conclusion of the 3rd Mr Lagudmžij. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19297	The Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, It is up to the Directorate for indirect taxation to verify all transactions and transactions under this law, and to provide precise and clear and detailed information on companies that have operated under this law with quantities of goods, financial transactions and time.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19298	You heard the suggestion of a conclusion. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I voted yes, of course. Well, because I think I should vote yes. __________// / not a microphone/ So let him write us that he doesn't. Please, nice. - 27 for, there's no one against, three abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. 96 Conclusion number 3 adopted. Read the proposal for conclusion of Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19300	Thank you. It is up to the Council of Ministers to prepare a programme of damage recovery, if it exists to the primary producers that this law has damaged.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19301	You heard the suggestion. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 11 for, 13 against. The conclusion did not receive general parliamentary support and was not adopted. Read the next conclusion, Mr. Lagumdžija. Suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19302	.... Parliament will continue to work tomorrow and work both in committees and plenary, without going on vacations and obliging the Council of Ministers to act in the same way as addressing key issues from the 63rd House session.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19303	Please prepare to vote. Vote now. - 14 for, 11 for, four for, four for. There's no entity majority from the Federation entity, and the conclusion goes to reconciliation. ______________(?) But there's going to be a session tomorrow. But about that, watch out, about when there's going to be a session, about when there's going to be a session, and that's why we voted, the two of us against it, because you don't have to worry about the jobs we do, except whether we're gonna be here or not. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19305	Look, since I'm a legalist and I respect this home, it's not clear to me now whether we're going to go on vacation to the Council of Ministers, or not. 97
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19306	Thank you very much, sir. The conclusion has not been reached. He's going to get into college and get a new session. Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Lagumdžija, help us read the next proposal for your conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19307	Of course not, Mr. Chairman - further application of this law is suspended until answers are given according to today's conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19308	Prepare to vote. You heard the suggestion of a conclusion. Vote now. - 7 for, 16 against, 4 abstentions. The proposal for a conclusion did not receive parliamentary support. Read the next proposal of your conclusion. No more. Please, dear colleagues and colleagues, this is how we ended this part of the agenda. We now have three options. So the first is to proceed immediately to work, according to the following points of the agenda. The second is to take a break, so let's get back to work and the treći is to postpone the session for tomorrow, possibly the day after tomorrow. So we need to make a decision about it, as it is called here on the proposal, of course, the College. Please, please, I'm now, among other things because of here, let's say a break of about 15 minutes, 15 minutes break, so we're going to continue 25 to 7 and we're going to continue to agree on a way to work. We've got to get some rest. 15 minutes break. Twenty-five to seven, proceed. We're going back to work. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats. ___________/? 98 [[no microphone turned on]] I don't know about that. We're gonna make more arrangements. We've got some problems. I'll let you know about it. It's not technical problems, but, members of the College actually, two members of the College are actually justifiably absent tomorrow. Mr. Raguž is on his way tomorrow morning, and Mr. Špirić has a duty in Banja Luka tomorrow. The day after tomorrow, the Council of Ministers actually has a complete commitment to Bihac, so we will continue to work and we will agree, we will see. We're going with the 8th point of the agenda, that's Ad.8. Analysis of the results of the Council of Ministers' decisions on the suspension of the application of a zero customs rate under the Treaty on Free Trade between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Free Trade Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina-Montenegro and this analysis by the Council of Ministers, delivered the conclusion of this House from the 53rd session when the Council of Ministers is obliged to draw up within three months an analysis of the results of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council's decision to suspend the application of a zero rate under the Free Trade Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia and the Free Trade Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro. Analyser of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and was discussed and adopted at the 84th session of the Council of Ministers, 30 June 2005. The material was delivered to this home on July 5th this year. The Commission considered this analysis to the House of Foreign Trade and Customs and submitted a report to the House. You have seen that the Commission's view of the analysis is incomplete. I'm opening a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19310	Chairman, will someone give us an opening notice, so we can discuss it, or will someone remember when we begin to discuss the need for opening remarks.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19311	I therefore call on the President of the Commission to make opening remarks, and let the Council of Ministers be prepared to also make introductory remarks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19312	Thank you, Chairman. As you have already pointed out, the Commission has considered, better to say, better to say the data, so the data presented, rather than the analysis. Therefore, the analysis of this, this data and the Commission concluded that it was not an analysis of the results, but of 99 presentations of the data, and considered the analysis incomplete. There's a mistake here. He thinks it's incomplete. So please correct that. Of course, in order to discuss the matter as quickly as possible, because the House of Representatives had the initiative to put these issues on the agenda as soon as possible, the Commission did not engage, nor could it engage in a discussion on the material called an analysis of the application of the free trade agreement with a specific reference to contracts between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro, which did not consider or adopt the Council of Ministers. So we received information from an assistant foreign trade and economic relations minister. This analysis has already been submitted to the Commission as an information material. Therefore, this analysis is not presented by the Council of Ministers, but by individuals. Therefore, the Commission did not engage in a debate on this analysis, and this call analysis is considered incomplete and asks the Council of Ministers to submit a new analysis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19313	Thank you very much, Mr. Kunić. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić. That's right. Here you go, Mr. Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19314	I must admit that I thought that Minister Doko would come out, but it may not be bad for me to give the introduction first and say that at the beginning, it was not clear to me why the dom asked for this analysis to be made because in the debate when we came to the conclusion that this real analysis was being held we had discussions from individual representatives of Parliament who were going towards the Council of Ministers for why we made this decision about how we would compromise relations, good neighbourly relations with the Republic of Croatia, how we would spoil our position in Brussels, etc. etc. That it's nice to take it out of the stenogram and it's clear that of all the stories that were told today there's nothing. We did not endanger our relations with the Republic of Croatia, nor did we get any pastures from Brussels, and we did something that was the product of the demands of those you spoke about today, and which you cared about, means direct producers in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The truth of the figures will show that we have not stopped these measures from importing from the Republic of Croatia by these three tariffs. But in order to be happy, in particular to represent Lagumdzhi, who at the last point was concerned because the state had lost some, several million of those decisions, now to cheer him up and to say that by this decision, if nothing was provided in the entity budgets several million KM funds that they were not planned and we expect that these funds would be directly directed to farmers as an incentive because of their budgets, my information is about 7 million KM. These funds are not planned in the budgets and can be directed without any difficulty to foster agricultural production and my proposal for conclusions, one of the conclusions that this home commits entity governments or commits entity governments to the House, or to suggest to entity governments that the funds obtained by introducing customs burdens on these three customs heads, and not planned in the budgets provide 100 mechanisms to be directed directly to encourage agricultural production in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So we absolutely didn't spoil our relationship with the Republic of Croatia, nor did we have, and I was in Zagreb 15 days ago talking to Prime Minister Senader and Minister Čobanković to sign an Annex contract which was our goal and we are very close to signing the Free Trade Treaty which will, with the agreement of the Croatian government's representatives, burden customs during the implementation of the free trade agreement. The numbers and information will be discussed by Minister Doko. I expect this Parliament will praise the Council of Ministers' decision, because we did not take care of the Republic of Croatia here, we did not take care of Brussels, we took care of the manufacturers in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And if nothing, we expect this measure to be commended and directed to apply the same measure with other countries of skis. So we have a free trade agreement with all our countries to protect these three heads, and the contract involves applying a zero rate, to protect this, these three heads by introducing certain customs burdens. So on 4 August in Zagreb, here is Minister Doko was with Minister Čobaković yesterday, 4 August in Zagreb we could sign an Annex contract with the Republic of Croatia for these three headings of customs tariffs. Perhaps I should just say that we will still have to think about other countries the way we did it with the Republic of Croatia and that those who were concerned, that we will endanger relations with the Republic of Croatia to tell them, that these three headings of customs tariffs involve an eye, slightly less than 90 million imports from Croatia to BiH, and over billions, billions and 100 were imports to BiH last year. So it's a small amount that leaves no trace or disturbance on the Croatian economy, and it hits ours in a race, and with this elaborate, we've got the understanding and the government of the Croatian government, along with this elaborate, and we're going towards signing an Annex to the contract. So my proposal would be, apart from what Minister Doko is going to expose, that entity governments, to propose to the entity governments that the funds collected by the introduction of customs burdens which are not planned means definitely in the budgets, the bug is aimed at encouraging agricultural production and that, with everything, all the countries we have, with which we have a free trade agreement, apply the same measure to get us into a position to sign the contract annex with them in relation to these three headings of customs tariffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19315	Thank you very much. Mr. Doko. I'd only ask as soon as possible, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19316	Thank you, Mr. President, honourable MPs, I will try to be brief, of course, regarding the analysis of the application of the Free Trade Treaty and with special reference to contracts with Croatia-Montenegro. 101 First of all, I would like to say that here is some introductory note that I have to go, and BiH is making an external trade exchange with EU countries and with countries with which it has signed a Free Trade Treaty of more than 90 per cent. Therefore, our exports to these countries are exports with preferential treatment and for us it is very important that everything that happens in terms of external trade with these countries. Under the countries with which we signed the Free Trade Treaty, Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro are participating with almost 95%. So, in the overall exchange, whether it's about imports, whether it's about exports. Croatia is the first and most important foreign trade partner in BiH measured by the total volume of exchanges, the country in which the most exports from BiH, the country from which the most imports are imported into BiH. Serbia-Montenegro has a trend of growth, therefore, when it comes to importing into BiH and applying the Free Trade Treaty according to all the analyses we did at the Council of Ministers do not give the expected results when it comes to the Bosnian Herzegovina side. Probably in Serbia-Montenegro, there are more reasons for this, optimism or satisfaction in terms of the application of these contracts. As for the Republic of Croatia, before the start of these contracts in 2000, the ratio of the total exchange was 1:8, so the coverage of imports with exports was only 12.5%, today we have this coverage of imports according to the statistics office over 40%. And the fact that I don't go into details, since I'm asked to really cut short, I point out that the Bosnian Herzegovina side can first be satisfied with the application of the Free Trade Treaty. What we have always pointed out in our analyses is this part, agricultural products or only one part of agricultural products in the part where BiH or BiH producers do not have access to Croatia's market. And that was the focus where we concentrated and where we talked through all the talks with the competent ministry, in this case agriculture, although in Croatia the competent Ministry of Implementation of the Treaty, the Ministry of Economy, we always talked to the Ministry of Agriculture because we had these groups of animal origin, those are chapters 02.04 and 16 where we did not therefore have the conditions to meet, which are foreseen by these contracts and these are the registration of export facilities to the EU. And, therefore, at the very beginning, there was an inability to export. The exception was only in certain product groups where these countries are obviously, and we can even say the EU countries showed interest in the sense of the financial nature of the skin and of some other products, so that the exports were symbolic and covered by the exports in this sector were with Croatia 1:20. So, for the BiH export mark, we have imported 20 marks of these products from Croatia. Today the situation is different. True, we have different data. I had the opportunity yesterday to exchange information with Minister Čobanković but yet this is moving now in the range 1:7 per our information and 1:4.5 per the information that the Croatian side has. As for that concern that Parliament expressed also by calling for an extraordinary session or by interrupting even a regular session in terms of inputs, haste analysis or the reason why the Council of Ministers has made these decisions, I will briefly recall. There are different reasons. So, as far as Serbia and Montenegro are concerned, very briefly. It's about countermeasures. Counter measures. We had a breach of the Free Trade Treaty in such a way that Serbia-Montenegro in this case, in fact, Serbia, in this case, has export-enhancing certain product groups and we are simply that list they have subsidized, we have copied practically and on these products we have burdened as much as in this case the Serbian government has given 102 incentives. So that decision is not in any way characterised as unilateral, although it has that character, but quite legitimate in terms of consistent compliance with the Free Trade Treaty. As for the Croatian side, therefore, we had no reason to introduce countermeasures but here I already said in the introduction, that since we did not have the possibility of practically our producing performances on the Croatian market, we expressed our and our dissatisfaction with the application of the Free Trade Treaty in the sense that manufacturers from the Republic of Croatia who perform on the BiH market therefore have a status, preferential and that our producers cannot compete in the same way on their market. We asked for this status to be equated in a way that since we cannot carry out these activities in a short period, because the Office for Veterinary Affairs, the Office for Phytosanitary Protection, although it is now another area, the Food Safety Agency is something that is yet to be established, as far as the office is concerned, is a different situation, the office is working in full capacity and we are satisfied with the work of the office, I think that this should be confirmed in Parliament as well. A lot of decisions have been made and there are already first activities in the registration of export facilities to the EU for the result. I hope that this will happen soon after visiting the EU inspection, that we will have three fish export facilities to start, and then later when that system is formed then other objects can be applied regardless of the type of raw meat used in production. The effects of this decision on both sides, in terms of the reduction in imports from these two countries, are lagging behind, and we discussed and adopted this information at the Council of Ministers' meeting, so that this finding that we have not considered an analysis of the effects of the suspension and application of the zero rate in these contracts is not correct. The truth is that this report that's now in your possession is something complete with graphics mostly because it has that table view, so graphic. There is a accompanying text content, and in this sense this analysis has everything that is necessary for it to really be an analysis and not just information. From this point of view, the most important reason why we brought this measure, the reduction of imports from neighbouring countries, is lagging behind and there is one extreme insatiability in terms of the introduction of these measures and the reduction of imports. However, there is no lack of that other effect in terms of the collection of income that is here if everything is as beautiful as it is, that it will be focused on the agriculture sector and therefore another one of those activities that the Council of Ministers is taking, the truth with very limited capacity, has this finding but with very weak mechanisms, because the practical competence over these jobs is therefore in the entity governments. So, after that Council of Ministers session, there was a press conference. I'll remind you, maybe one of you followed it and just then that information was published in terms of, I was present at this press conference that these measures did not give that result in a reduction in revenue, in terms of the reduction of imports from neighbouring countries. As for the third aspect, in the sense that BiH will suffer some criticism, we have taken a number of activities relative to the measure if you remember from last year, 2004. We informed on time and the Stability Pact, we held additional consultations, the joint committees met, the conditions were to apply the provisions of Articles 13, 27 and 31 not to enter into what state. And, we, after a respected procedure, have therefore introduced the protection measures provided for in the free trade agreements, so that there has been true objections by Croatia in the sense that the measures are discriminatory, we have always defended our position in terms of the legitimate right that by applying the free trade agreement we can take these measures in 103 situations when domestic production is threatened by imports from the neighbouring country in this sense as I have also said in these product groups. Here, I can briefly say that yesterday, in a conversation with Minister Čobaković, I agreed practically to specify these activities in terms of signing annexes. And it may be the greatest result and the greatest success that we have opened up the practical possibility, for now no longer unilaterally but means the bilateral one, the amendment of the Free Trade Treaty and the consent of the Croatian side, in this case there is, the prime ministers had a meeting on which they were in principle and agreed to intensify these activities. And now it's just a questionable list of products because the starting base is our decision that we made. The Croatian side has its vision, therefore, will propose its list, and after that we will probably have the opportunity to sign and Annex of the Free Trade Treaty. As important as it is, here I will repeat at the end, that 95% of the total exchange with the countries with which we signed the Free Trade Treaty, we have precisely with these two neighbouring countries, Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19317	Thank you, Minister. So, here's the deal. We've got a couple of registered debaters. So, Mr. Lagumdžija, Mrs. Majkić, Mr. Sead Avdić and Mr. Momčilo Novaković. I would ask you indeed if you could be as brief as possible in your discussions, please, in this order as I say.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19318	Mr. Chairman, I am sorry that there is no Council of Ministers chairman, I would suggest that what he has given us as his opening remarks, where he listed figures that have nothing to do with what it says in this information, that someone would have told him, it would be good to shape it and try to give one text,...business or some relevant magazine. I'm sure he'd be offered a Nobel Prize for Economics right now. We've heard that we should be happy about this because this is exactly what the suspension of these two contracts has led to about 7 million, as he said, from an opportunity. Knowing our chairman, when he says it's seven million dollars, that means it can be anything but seven million. Nowhere in these numbers, let him get me here a seven million-dollar-larger customs number for this to happen, I'll help him with that text from which he'll get Nobel's. However, I have a feeling that you, Mr. Minister, or Mr. Chairman, will be told by someone, they seem to think we're not reading anything that they sent us. In this analysis, first in the Analysis on the application of the Free Trade Treaty, in this analysis on free trade, this brief analysis that has whether, 14 pages for which a vague analysis of what, believe it or not, here analysis begins with a very scientific and very professional approach. It says, "Successful Cases Trick." So this is a trick. I didn't see anywhere in the analysis that someone, these are shanar jokes, listen says the trick is in it. What trick? Well, there are no tricks here. Here's a trick in that contract and then here you can find that the BH trade deficit is almost 50% in the GDP, which is a very alarming data. That's right. And then here are the conclusions that are quite the opposite of what we were just told. Among other things, it is said here that 104 World Bank data show that BiH producers are the least protected throughout the Southeast Europe region, which we know very well. It also says that BiH is exposed to major barriers in the p... most of its target markets, based on the area of food and agricultural products, too. Then here they are given, a proposal for measures in conclusion, point 7.2 b, c, d and e which are all to one extent, which are absolutely accurate and that are not implemented here at all. It says here that state institutions in the area of standardisation should be trained, it says here to speed up activities on the formation of the State Ministry of Agriculture. That's all true, but where are we? It says here that we need to subsidize production, which is a little colorful with that PRSP. It says here that we need to make budget revenues on the basis of the excise duty to be passed on in the development of primary agricultural production, which is not done. It says here you need to cut taxes and other charges and so forth. But let's release this information which is a trick, which is based on one trick. What was the occasion, which is an analysis of this suspension with the neighbors. To remind you, Mr. Minister, correct me, here you are now repeating here, the goal was that our manufacturing of what we banned, that those who were being pushed, by applying 40%, what we applied in the last year, 40% of applying to those tariff rates that existed earlier, and so that they could do what? What was the goal? To cut imports, right? That was the goal. To help domestic production by reducing imports, so when imports are reduced, then people will be buying homemade products, that was the goal, and that's where everyone agrees. But the information says it's all the opposite of that. That's what it says in the information. That's why I don't know, maybe the president of the Council of Ministers had some other information. Maybe he has someone else entirely, some other information. Even here it is fair to say, at the beginning, which I think is absolutely correct, that the first data does not show significant effects, or show a reduction in imports of goods. And you just, when you think of it as reduced imports, but it doesn't matter, then you read what it says here. The first, meat and edible livestock waste, what we were just talking about, the period of the reduced period, nothing reduced, increased nine times. Nine times increased imports. Table 2 meat and edible meat and other meat products, eight times increased. Sausages and similar products of meat and other clown products, similar, that's when made of brick. And here it is, we just took it off, and now we're in. Now that we've introduced what we just ruled out, and we've introduced this to reduce imports, and the information says, so the import of that garbage is whether, like, those meat products, I almost smiled that it looked like meat. He says, period per period, increased 2.5 times, the goal was to reduce. And that's 2.5 times financial and three times quantitative. You don't need to be a scientist, so to conclude that if 2.5 times the increase is financially and three times the amount that we've just imported bigger garbage. Cheaper that garbage you got. Or we took so much, we got special discounts. In the end, when you meet all of this, it says, imports have recorded growth. He doesn't say how much. But when you add it up, you see it's twice as big. So this information shows that everything was achieved the opposite of what was claimed to be. And what we're seeing here is quite the opposite of what you were just trying to convince us on that agenda point. But let's play that part on the agenda. Let's stick to this one. This information clearly states that the objectives for which the decision has been suspended have not been reached. Simple imports increased. And then, the prime minister says, customs have already been collected, so we're going to return it to what we've protected, by making their products 105 are going to be placed on the market because these imports that we wanted to reduce imported 2, 3, 8 and 9 times as much as before. In every normal country, whoever convinced us of this pay phone to accept this would fly like a bullet where it came from. That is, to an adequate workplace, because he obviously doesn't fill it now. But what can be concluded, Mr. Chairman? Nothing, that this is just misery, which is tragedy. And I, believe me, I'm not suggesting any conclusions, because this Council of Ministers, whatever they're suggesting, if they don't like it, they're gonna find someone who's gonna wash it up, and since we're already on the verge of the quorum, there's no one who can take it, accepts that conclusion, and then simply, this works as a magnetogram, one day some young scientist is going to read what we are here, how we've made the state. Well, as they say, let's keep it in writing that he was some potential Nobel laureate, who was the chairman of the Council of Ministers, who convinced us that we had achieved all the goals, by making this decision that, although we wanted to reduce imports, we increased it by nine times and that it was a success. What do they say, a minute of silence and goodbye, pleasant.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19319	Thank you very much. Mr. Kunić, the replica short, Mr. Kunić, I have announced you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19320	I explained it at first, but I guess Mr. Lagumdžija didn't hear me. The conclusions and suggestions proposed here are not the conclusions and proposals of the Council of Ministers, but the proposals, let the assistant minister be analysed. So, I would beg you, it's not the subject of debate. That part was not the subject of the debate or the Commission. So these are not conclusions and suggestions, neither has the Council of Ministers passed, nor are these their proposals. That's why they need to be let out of their sight. And that's what we wrote.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19321	This is what a reader of the account could read.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19322	So don't discuss this, but about this information you've given. I think it would be wise after this finding and, of course, they didn't make any suggestions or conclusions, to get this report back. In this regard, it is the Commission's suggestion to return to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19323	We'll see about that. Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary asked for a brief. Only the minister, the minister, called, asked for a word. Here you go, Mr. Doko, for a moment, just please respond.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19324	Thank you. As soon as I can. First, as regards Serbia-Montenegro, the absolute introduction of these measures, which are countermeasures on those introduced by Serbia-Montenegro, in terms of encouraging, export incentives of its products, is an entirely legitimate right and I would not like to discuss any analyses in this regard. 106 As far as Croatia is concerned, there is another story. So we didn't have that basis here, and I would like to point out that these data used here are data where the part or influence that is not the result of the application of the Free Trade Treaty is to be rejected. First of all, we've combined with two periods. One period passed over the years, the same time and another period was the previous period compared to the time these measures took effect. During this period, it was precisely these laws on application, amending the Customs Tariff Act, and for this very reason there was, of course, enormous imports, which is precisely in support of what I said at the previous point, that there would be no such imports that we did not have an amendment to the Customs Tariff Act. So, when we talk about all this, we need to know that this information that has been given, simply copied from the data of the Department of Impaired Taxation, is to be divided into those where the impact of the decision is and where that effect is here to amend and supplement the Customs Tariff Act. So we have to consider this factor. Second, when it comes to the reduction of imports, therefore, decisions and elasticity in relation to the reduction of imports. First of all, these decisions promote the competitive capacity of domestic production and that is the basic objective. Of course it can't be achieved over a month. People have habits, have a traditional habit of buying, consumption of certain products, and there takes a somewhat longer period of 3 months to see the effects in that sense. Slovenia is the best example, just in this case when we had that one, not the decision but the practical suspension of the Free Trade Treaty because of Slovenia's entry into the EU, because we had and constantly recorded the decline in imports of these product groups from Slovenia. So nothing intersects with a knife and hastily achieves its effects. Three months is too short a period and the main reason is to promote the competitive capacity of domestic producers, because these measures certainly have the effect of making it difficult for importers to perform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19325	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić, please. Did you just want to answer something? Please, if you're having one discussion, try to later on when you have to, I'll give you my word, please, Mrs. Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19326	...to say something about the materials coming to Parliament. It was very difficult for the Commission to work, given that we received as an integral text, two materials. The first material that we are told was adopted by the Council of Ministers is called Analysis of the results of the Council of Ministers' decisions....Stop the zero customs rates by contract and so on, and the second, which has been said not to have been adopted by the Council of Ministers and that by mistake it has come to us, is called Analysis of the application of the Free Trade Treaty with special reference to contracts with the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro. In such a finding, given that the first material passed by the Council of Ministers, these are tables. There's no analysis in it. On this basis, the Commission could not work, could not draw any conclusions. Other material containing some measure, it could not be considered because we were not sure whether we could work on materials that were not verified by the Council of Ministers. Please, the Commission has clearly proposed 107 that this analysis of the results is not considered an analysis and does not consider it complete, because it contains beside the table should contain some other elements. And to demand that the Council of Ministers subsequently do a quality analysis that will be reviewed on the Commission offered to Parliament. So this isn't a document to consider.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19327	Okay, thank you very much. We've heard that one time. You'll get all the words. Now it is Mr. Sead Avdić's turn to prepare Mr. Momčilo Novaković, then Mrs. Ljiljana Milićević, then Mr. Mr. Beriz has a business intervention, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19328	It's not my intention to cause confusion, etc. I've heard your explanation and Mr. Kunić. The MPs got the material, got the material, signed the accompanying act, where we're told they're delivering two materials, one and two. He signed the minister. So I used this other material very carefully. Please, this isn't illegal material.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19329	Thank you, Mr. Beriz. Let's go this way. Mr. Sead Avdić, let Mr. Momčilo Novaković be prepared, then Mrs. Ljilja Milićević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19330	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19331	I'm just asking you to be as brief as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19332	Unlike the previous point, I'm considering something with more optimism and looking at this material that's in front of us. No matter how consistent he is and perhaps controversial in some of his messages and grades. Using one syntax here that's written, which should be kept in mind all the time. We have potential with the EU, but only three EU products protect from imports from other countries such as live cattle, beef and wine. What do I mean? So the EU that has absolutely suppressed free trade contracts for decades has simply been protecting its simple economy in particular, such as the wine industry etc. So, this is not our invention, but simply beyond the need for BiH to easily protect domestic production by complex measures from customs policy and by changing tariff numbers. And these are the right incentive measures, and they need to be kept working on it. Not fragmental, no, just like this ad hoc individual products etc. So the EU does, too, and then it really has a right to BiH, and in this context, we have a lot of understanding. I was thinking why three times the imports increased after we brought these measures, introduced customs and imports increased. Well, he's got an explanation. I'm sorry. The enormous imports had previously been, but it must be taken into account that a large part of the grey economy and operates through customs crossings. So when they started to record the 108 tariff numbers that we had singled out by law, then it started, it was simply that there was a fictitious increase in imports, that a fictitious increase in imports, and until then it was a gray economy, because they were passing through customs passages simply uncontrollably. It's the only possible explanation. I was really thinking about what, how illogically totally, simply in the material. And it makes sense when you think about it, you take into account the grey economy that works in BiH. Yeah, right, right. So in that context, we need to have a little understanding. And finally, what it is is the critical blade of this discussion of mine, why it has waited 15 months to see that Kosovo and Montenegro are not in the context of the Free Trade Treaty between BiH and Serbia-Montenegro. When we asked that question, Montenegro reacted immediately and said, "You're right, there's no problem." We accept the Free Trade Treaty. Well, gentlemen and ladies, so what's going on, what's this policy, just the double, double policy that Montenegro's been raising for 15 months? What's that supposed to mean? So, we repeat when we say and introduce just our protective measures, then they react promptly and say how not to, we accept the Free Trade Treaty. Kosovo is not in yet, in this Free Trade Treaty. Says the material, it damaged us over 400 million euros. That's quite an alarming number. Montenegro said it damaged 45m euros. So here's what I'm reading from the material. Which means, this really needs to be taken into account, and simply these relationships have to be quite clearly defined. There are other illogicalities here. As he says, we import from Croatia, you won't believe nuclear shelves. We don't need nuclear rafts, we don't have in Bosnia, this is a total lapus, and there's even worse, one more, and we're also exporting to other countries nuclear reactors. And it's us, just what it's supposed to mean. Something's going on that's really weird. I can't explain it to myself. So the artical of nuclear energy is ringing. So once again, I look at my previous discussion with signs of courage and simple optimism, no matter how non-trostatic material etc. I would ask if one conclusion is possible that the Ministry of Foreign Trade as well as the Council of Ministers offers us one truly complete material and one strategy to change customs policy and tariff numbers that will fully represent the expression of incentives for domestic production, and through simple introduction of tariff numbers and customs policies to certain products. What does that mean from acid water, milk processing and all the way to meat processing, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19333	Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković. Let Mrs. Milićević prepare herself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19334	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to say, I'm pretty confused with all sorts of information, the reports I got here and by this point, as well as by the previous. The previous report showed that we did not consider the same report because we adopted the report and the Commission's report. So probably because they're the opposite, they weren't the same information, and here I'm looking at this analysis and 109 I'm looking at the Commission's position, because the commission says there's no analysis. And I ask the Commission what's on the regular page number 11, 12, 13, 23 and 24. I understand a little bit about this if I didn't understand much about it before. So I understand something about this. This may not be a good analysis, but it is an analysis. So maybe it's not enough in the commission's opinion to run a good enough analysis, but it is an analysis. And I really don't think the commission was the correctest way to put it, according to these informations. I don't know why. That's what they're thinking on the committee that made them think the way they thought, but obviously there was something wrong. That's what it says and the fact that we have the material that we got here means where it says, calling for the Council of Ministers to conclude, etc. etc. In addition, we deliver to you, so it lists both of the materials that we have received. And now the commission obviously didn't discuss both materials even though I assume she got the same thing. People have explained that they are not because this other or not reportedly, this other material is not the Council of Ministers material. And he came along with the material of the Council of Ministers. Much of it seems to me really if you want to do so in the information itself, and especially in the commission's work remains unclear when it comes to the previous and this material, and I don't really know what the motives of the commission are, I don't want to get into it, let it be on board, I want to comment on it because it's in the material, and I comment on this proposal for a measure that's written where I think that no matter what the commission should consider it. And even if she didn't have to consider it because it's very serious measures, some very far-reaching means some that are intruding into many other laws, especially when it comes to speeding up activities in the formation of the State Ministry of Agriculture even though we haven't yet decided whether or not we will. So I guess we should just get our minds together first and then speed up our activities. We should have some attitudes about it. Then some more measures here. But also just to support the measure under a) means that it is necessary to review these contracts. That review in my opinion means full legalisation of what the Council of Ministers did. So if we fully agree with these countries to review, change what we change to be the result of the agreement between the signatories of the agreement, then we get new agreements so we can avoid that story that, of course, it's impossible to change the contract without the agreement of both the signatories. And for that reason, I think that, if it were good and this measure had not been debated, it would have been supported if we had adopted this information today. If we're not going to adopt it, but we're going to act on the commission's proposal, then that's a whole other question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19335	Thank you very much. Mr. Petar Kunić. Replicable minute. One minute, please, he can't take it anymore. No more, the session should be run. Here you go, blend in in at the time. We can't discuss it all the time when someone will. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19336	I know we're tired.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19337	We're not tired, I'm not tired. We have plenty of time, but we must respect order.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19338	But that doesn't give us the right to talk. I explained it twice here. Mrs. Majkić, too. Mr. Novaković didn't listen at all. So it can't be, it can't be the subject of discussion conclusions and suggestions. Because it wasn't the subject of the Council of Ministers' debate, and the material was sent earlier. It wasn't the commission that sent the material. Examine the matter to discuss. Don't beat yourself up.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19339	Thank you very much. Novaković. Replication response. Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19340	I hope the professor listens to himself. If I don't listen to him, then I hope he listens to himself, so hopefully in the future if he doesn't listen, he'll listen to himself. What he's saying, of course, doesn't exactly contribute to his calling. It doesn't go his way. I made it perfectly clear what I said and that the professor didn't hear because he didn't listen to anyone but himself. I said I got the material that he got. So we got this material and said what he said that he wasn't discussing that material. I wondered why he didn't, because he said that some minister's assistant said he wasn't ready at the Council of Ministers. I still made it perfectly clear, I don't justify it to the professor, because I have no reason to, because he won't hear it anyway, but because of the stenogram that although these measures, measure 1, measure 1, or measure a) we need to accept because it solves a big problem when this was on the agenda, and that's the relationship between the states when we break the agreement. I think I made it perfectly clear I said and whenever I speak very well, I think about what I'm saying. Of course I can't, I don't want to, so I can't, and I don't want to convince myself here whether the commission knows how to work or doesn't know its job. That's her problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19341	Thank you. Mrs. Ljilja Milićević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19342	The chairman, the obligation, in fact, when he obliged the Council of Ministers to carry out an analysis under 1 within three months, must be determined that they fulfilled their obligation, with the conclusion that three months is a short period. They provided us with an analysis of the results of their decision. That's it. I can't accept the return of material to them because, only if I doubt the accuracy, because they wrote what 111 they got by their act of what they came up with. This other paper now means the consequences, that is, we have an economic analysis and we have political ones. What Mr. Novaković was talking about was seeing the meaning of the interstate aspect of such a decision in the context of some mutual relations. That's one aspect, and that's an analysis for me. It means what we've gotten or lost in the region, the environment, or other countries. As far as this economic analysis is concerned, I have received information here and, as far as I understand by my Rules of Procedure, this is not a document to which I can submit amendments. This isn't a document I can only say that they respected what you asked them to do, and I take it to the knowledge that or question the accuracy of this and say that they should do it. I am inclined to accept this kind of analysis which is with the only possible conclusion is continuity since the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry, regretted that three months is little for the effects of getting a six-month period, means a six-month analysis to see if these are the effects that have occurred instantly, whether there is some continuity with the normal addition of a political analysis of this implications that can take place with these decisions. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19343	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to talk? I'm closing the debate. Dear colleagues and colleagues have therefore received an analysis of the results of the Council of Ministers' decisions to suspend the application of a zero customs rate under the free trade agreement between these neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina countries and we should of course determine ourselves against that result analysis. We got it on our own request. I think we have a few suggestions now. The first is the proposal proposed by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I think I could combine this what's-his-name with all these expensive suggestions and make one of our own suggestions. Let us take note of this information, to charge the Council of Ministers periodically to provide information on the situation in this area and on these measures taken and to recommend, in fact, to the entity governments that the positive financial effects achieved from both measures are directed at incentives, to recommend guidelines to encourage agricultural, primary agricultural production. As suggested by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. We can put it together as conclusions, and we can vote separately on them. Whatever you say. No problem at all. Mr. Novaković, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19344	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, I must say that the part that speaks of us recommending entity governments will not support. In fact, they work on the budget, so they have a budget law that they've adopted for this year and they also have the law and the budget and the law and they act on it and really any of our own, and even the suggestion doesn't make any sense. 112 So I don't support the proposal
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19345	All right, I got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19346	Chairman, but of course I will support the proposal, this first part of the proposal, as I ask you when we talk about this information, what information does this refer to?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19347	Results analysis
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19348	Both, both parts of the result or only to the first part of the information. I want to be clear. For what? Because I'm interested in the long-term measures. So I need to know what information I vote on when I vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19349	Mr. Novaković, we take note of the analysis of the Council of Ministers' decisions to suspend the application of a zero customs rate under the free trade agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and here are neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina countries. That's what we're getting at. So that's my suggestion. And secondly, we task the Council of Ministers to periodically inform us about the effects of these measures and I am ready, of course, to put it separately to the vote, and then, of course, I will propose what the chairman of the Council of Ministers has proposed, in particular, to vote on it. So, the first vote is now voted on a conclusion that takes note of this and tasks the Council of Ministers to keep Parliament informed periodically about the situation in this area and we are now voting on that conclusion. Here you go, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19350	Looks like we went into one practice to sort of ignore the commission's report. So we have a commission report here, no matter what it is. We've kind of cleared up what this second piece of material the commission wrote here. It is the Ministry of Resort material, did not pass through the Council of Ministers and was not treated by the commission. So I suggest we make a statement about the commission's report. So the commission estimates that this analysis is incomplete and that it does not give sufficient data and should be done new.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19351	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19352	And let's be clear about the commission's report.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19353	We'll put your proposal to a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19354	It's not my proposal, it's the commission's report.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19355	We'll put a proposal to put the Commission's proposal to a vote. So we'll put everything to the vote. I'm the first one to vote on the proposal for this conclusion I suggested. We'll do it in a row. So, please nice, allow me. Avdić'll let me run the session. I am putting the motion to vote that information is being taken into account and that, i.e., analysis is being carried out and that the Council of Ministers is tasked with informing Parliament periodically. Prepare to vote on this proposal for a conclusion. Vote now. 14 for, 11 against, no entity majority from the Federation. The proposal for a conclusion is to be agreed upon. We put forward a proposal to recommend to the entity governments that the positive effects of these measures be directed at the incentive of agricultural production. Prepare to vote. Vote now. You know what they're talking about. It's got nothing on it. It's more of what you're saying. Ten for, ten against, nine, one. The proposal did not receive parliamentary support. We move on to Mr. Belkić's proposal to make a statement on our commission's report. We're voting on our commission's report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 17 for, 9 against, 1 abstention, there is a sufficient entity majority of both entities. This Commission proposal has been adopted. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda. That's, uh, 114 Ad.9. A brief analysis of BiH's external trade exchange -- the state of the BiH trade deficit and the measures to reduce it, and this jumaterial is the result of the House's conclusion from the 53rd session. The processor is the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and also adopted at the 84th session of the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2005. It has been examined by the Commission for external trade in goods and customs. You've received a report from the Commission. The proposal of our commission is to ask the Council of Ministers to draw up an action plan containing a proposal for measures, a carrier of activities and deadlines for their implementation. I'm opening a debate. Does the Council of Ministers want to give an opening statement? Yes, you can. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19356	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that the College is having trouble calling for a follow-up to this Assembly, but there are more practically 10-11 hours that we are in this room, we work continuously, I predict that this point will also be very interesting, that the point behind this will require at least half an hour of presentation and after that the story. We need to know how we're gonna get out of this situation. I suggest you put it to a vote, we interrupt the session at this agenda point, and then the College finds a way when they'll schedule this session. If that doesn't go away, then you continue the session as you will, but if you know the SNSD Club will demand half an hour's break at each of the points so we can at least prepare ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19357	So, this is the kind of esteemed fellow. So we have the next situation, then. Tomorrow, so tomorrow is, I already said that once, my colleague Raguž travels on the official trip, my colleague Špirić tells me he can't be tomorrow because he has an obligation in Banja Luka. So, as far as I'm concerned, I'm here tomorrow and I can, of course, run a session, and as far as I'm concerned, we can break up and move on tomorrow. But here's the problem is that objectively two colleagues are not there for objective reasons. The second thing, when it comes to Friday, Friday's men from the Council of Ministers are busy. So I got this information, they have obligations in Bihac, the entire Council of Ministers, so even the day after tomorrow, we're not getting up to hold a session. I think we need to make a decision here, or we'll continue tonight, or we'll continue tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Well, here you go, whatever you want. Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19358	Thank you very much. I don't think this is really correct from some colleagues. At the last session, we established this item of the agenda that is attractive to the media and when the end came, it was able to remove the point from the agenda and leave. It's happening again tonight. If ever, today we had a break and we rested 115 twice, once almost two hours, twice almost half an hour, and I beg that the session continue as we have determined the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19359	Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković, you asked for a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19360	Well, you see, I think we need to assess whether we can end this today or not, this session. Secondly, I don't see any reason why we have to finish before the annual break of this agenda. I'm trying to see which points are so urgent that we have to finish them before the holidays, and I haven't been able to find one, given what Sead's colleague says, what's attractive to the media, etc., what's not attractive to the media, in any case, even what's attractive to the media, is at least the least the subject of this House, but entity governments. So, I'm talking about a proposal for measures to mitigate the consequences of price hikes. So, I don't see anything urgent that we should finish tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19361	Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Gligorić, then Mrs. Majkić, you'll get your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19362	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So we're having a discussion on how to proceed with our work, and I remind you that we agreed on a few sessions ago and set a clock until when we were going to do it and we respected it for a while. And I think that we should continue to respect it and really see if there is a way and I suggest that you as a College take it upon yourself and just let us know when you find a suitable time to continue the session. And I think it's the only real solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19363	All right, thanks. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19364	I just want to draw attention to the fact that of these points that remain, the only critical, the only one that might require that we finish work today, is about informing problems in the Department of Information and Technical Development of the Election Commission of BiH. This is a very critical material that has long waited and needs to be answered by the Election Commission as soon as possible. I don't think we should be done without giving an answer to this.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19365	All right, Mr. Lagumdžija, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19366	Mr. Chairman, I think colleagues from the SNSD Club and colleagues were very specific. One who, those people who were active today, were naturally tired. The one who wasn't active didn't get tired, it's not at all controversial. But what's urgent here? First of all, every point of this is an emergency, and there are some that are well-emergency. The one who's 116 about social programs is urgent because we're behind on social programs for half a year. And today we're going to realize that we're going to be late, because what we have ahead of us is not social programs. Information from the Council of Ministers on the issue of passports and license plates, as soon as you read this information, well, who doesn't have to go there to see where people are looking for passports and plates, so let them explain that it's not really an emergency what they're doing. So it's urgent, too. This information on external trade exchange is urgent to the extent that the situation is alarming. But what would be the worst, and that's what I'm up against, is us running through these agenda points and hitting the line that we've been discussing. Eh, look, we won't do that. So, Mr. Chairman, if you're not ready to move on tomorrow, then at their half hour, we're looking for half an hour right now, and that's to let us rest for an hour, so let's get on with it, we can do it by morning, there's no problem. But then don't rush us. We're ready all night to stay but give us an hour, to walk for a while, even this light seems to have dropped a little or we're tired, or maybe it's because of the presentation. So, business, you can decide to go today without a break, then we ask you twice a half hour and there's no problem. And we're ready to continue all night.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19367	Please, nice. I think, please, like this, so we have two suggestions. It is one proposal from the SNSD Club, therefore, that the session should be terminated now and that the College should then set a date when the session will be held. It's a SNSD proposal, which I did, because that's one proposal. And the second is the proposal to continue tonight with the session, of course respecting the needs of MPs to rest a little, to refresh and this is all we talked about, requests for breaks I mean.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19368	In order for it not to be unclear, we are not, our proposal is not to leave it to the College when it will continue, please. Our proposal isn't. So, to continue tomorrow, let's just get this straight, and otherwise we're looking for a half-hour break, so you guys change then. Please don't worry, you'll all be in SNsD or in SDP I think,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19369	Please, Mr. Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19370	So we got it, so I want to help you. So, here I have a memo from your services, from the Council of Ministers services, which clearly states, since everyone has been employed in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly since 1.8th on collective vacation, etc. etc. So they're asking for something from the Council of Ministers, so I'm not going to say at all which one it is, but 117 effects on Parliament's services in 1.8. going on collective vacation. So, we have one thing, I beg you, we have a plenary session of Parliament. We were killed by MPs by requests to deliver the quota information, to deliver information on the application of this, the customs burden with the Republic of Croatia, to submit the Information proposal for mitigation measures due to payment of basic life intentions, etc. We were all prepared for the plenary session and you took it off from the plenary session. Most of all, at the request of Mr. Lagumdžija. Then you didn't put it in the last session, so Mr Lagumdžija between the rest and me sent me a letter warning me that what I owe Parliament, as if I were putting on the agenda of Parliament, that I was obliged to put the social programme on the agenda, to ensure that it was put on the agenda. Here's today's agenda. First they go on a collective vacation and don't stick our heads in the sand. So don't delay, let's discuss this today. This is an important matter, but you also know, this proposal was passed by the fiscal council of BiH, where there are three perms, three finance ministers. The proposal passed co-ordination for economic development and European integration, where most representatives of all three governments are based. And this package of measures has already taken entity governments to make concrete measures on the basis of it, and according to its constitutional and legal powers, to mitigate the consequences of VAT implementation. Therefore, I must admit that after so much delay in the debate on this subject, you may not even need to discuss it. Our commitment was to conclude with us, in adopting the VAT to offer you this. You've done everything, here's the thing, and you're trying and now you're not discussing it. That's why I want to tell you gentlemen, I highly doubt you and that you can contribute to the debate because the entity governments, in co-operation with the Council of Ministers, are working on a package of measures that need to mitigate the consequences of increasing the prices of basic life intentions following the introduction of the VAT.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19371	Thank you very much. Please, nice. So, like this, I think we can keep working. I think we can continue to work and meet the requirements of SNSD and SDP clubs, for breaks to rest. We'll work all night. We have materials, and I think this is the best way to end any kind of debate. Please, do you want a break right now for the next point or should we start with a dot? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19372	I must say that the Party of BiH MPs' club will, in that case, require two hours,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19373	You're looking,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19374	Please don't embarrass yourself, please listen to me. We cannot continue tomorrow just because two men from this congregation are absent. The seat's on. We can carry on tomorrow, no problem, Šefik at 10 o'clock we continue as humans and discuss 118
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19375	We have a session of the House of the Peoples of Beryza tomorrow
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19376	Let's have, there's room down here, there's space down here.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19377	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19378	Mr. Chairman, I would really ask you to have as much measure as you have for the MPs from your party. That's all I wanted was one sentence I just wanted to add to what Mr. Chairman said. We've been looking for all this, but today's session is so hard that the question is how well we can work and I just wanted to add it. And please don't deny us the right to speak our mind anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19379	Mrs. Majkić, I mean I'm not denying you the right to do it, but when you feel the need to say something, you have to say it right away and ask to say it right now. I'm just saying wait there's order and don't always have to be told everything you're thinking. I'm really trying to have the same relationship with all of you here in Parliament, believe me. Did you ask for a word? Ma'am, wait, wait. Mubera. Here you go, Mubera. It's on.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19380	I speak as a member of the Chair's club. The replica of Mrs. Majkić. I would ask all my colleagues who have been very active to have consideration for those who seem inactive by not talking much today in this House and everyone else is tired. Mrs. Majkić spoke today whenever she felt the need to speak. She really wasn't entitled to it, and I think it's incorrect to mention this situation that we from this club SDA have been kind of weighed down. I even think that Mrs Majkić, in order to work more efficiently in this House, should in some cases have been a little more and more tolerated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19381	No, I'm not interrupting the debate. I'm calling the club presidents. Please, I invite the presidents of the clubs, please invite the presidents of the political parties' clubs to come here to discuss a further way of working. Come, please, club presidents. 119 I couldn't reach an agreement with the presidents of the political parties' clubs. Please take your seats. I will now put the proposals in order, therefore, to the vote. Please be nice, so we have three suggestions. One is a proposal to proceed tonight, another is to proceed tomorrow at 10. I can run a session tomorrow at 10. So there are no two colleagues, but I can be there, if I'm alive and well, and I guess if God does, it's the third suggestion that this, as it's called, that the College determines when that deadline will be in line with Parliament's work schedule. Well, that's the September proposal. All right. Please, nice. Please, nice. I'll get it, I'll get it. Please be nice. So please like this. We have four suggestions now. The proposal is to continue tonight and make it possible for people, but not to abuse that if they think they should have a break to have a break. But don't let it be abuse. The second proposal is to pick up tomorrow at 10:00. The third proposal is that, if neither of these two proposals fail, it will be the College that determines the continuation of the session. And the fourth proposal is that Mrs Palavrić be discussed in September. Here are four suggestions.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19382	I'm sorry. Business intervention. Please don't let us vote yes, if we're only voting for one proposal. Is he in need of an entity majority again? Don't let any proposal get an entity and super-half majority. Please don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19383	The first to pass, Mr. Lagumdžija, is adopted. Please have a seat.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19384	It's the first one to pass.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19385	That's the way it is. That's what the Rules of Procedure is like.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19386	Well, let's do it in a row. 120
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19387	We're voting on a first proposal to continue our work tonight. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - Ten for, 16 against, so one abstention. The proposal didn't get most of it. Let's go to another proposal. We vote there's a session tomorrow at 10:00. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 12 for, 13 against, 3 abstentions. This proposal does not have the necessary parliamentary majority either.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19388	I suggest 1.8. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19389	We vote. Please, Mr. Terzić, let me just finish the debate a little bit. We are voting only now that the College sets a term, since the work schedule in Parliament will be the new session. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 18, please nice, 18 for, 9 against, 1 abstention. Enough entity majority. I'm closing today's session, interrupting today's session. You will be informed of the continuation of the session by the College. Thank you. The session was suspended at 20.00 hours. 121
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19390	I suggest we move on, continue the work of the 63rd session of the House of Representatives. First of all, I would like to welcome all present MPs and guests and as representatives of the public information funds. I want to inform you that we have a quorum for a full legal and full-time decision. The session is attended by 23 MPs, 18 from the Federation, 5 from RS. As far as I know, other MPs have come. We expect them to enter the O.R., but let's not wait until I suggest we start working because we have a quorum. As you know, we interrupted the session on July 27th at the 9th point of the agenda. We are left with means of unrealizing the next item of the agenda, 9, 10, 11, 13, and 14. There's no need to repeat the names of the agenda points because you have them in the materials in the call for a session. So we're going to consider the remaining points of the agenda. We're going to the ninth point, which is, ad.9. A brief analysis of the foreign trade exchange of BiH, the state of trade deficit of BiH and the measures to reduce it This material was delivered to us on the basis of the conclusions of the House adopted at the 53rd session on the discussion of the Information Council of the Minsitaries on the suspension of certain provisions of the Free Trade Treaty between BiH and neighbouring countries. In point 4 of this conclusion, the House obliged the Council of Ministers to prepare information on BiH's trade deficit with an emergency programme to reduce the trade deficit within 2 months. The obrađivać of this material is the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and was adopted at the 84th session of the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2005. An external trade and customs commission code has been considered. And, uh, you've received a report from the board of directors. So, our commission's proposal to ask the Council of Ministers to draw up an action plan containing a proposal for measures, a carrier of activities and deadlines for their implementation. I therefore propose that we open a debate on this item of the agenda, but I ask that this conclusion of the committee in charge be kept in mind and I hope that, at the end of the debate, we will make a statement on this conclusion of the Commission. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Beriz Belkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19391	Dear Chairman and members of the College, colleagues and colleagues, I hope that I will not violate the Rules of Procedure if I thank Mr. Džaferović for his successful presidency in the past period which he said belonged to me and wish on behalf of the Party for BiH Club to Mr. Spiric, also successful chairmanship of this house in the coming period. And now let me say a few words about this point of the agenda, that is, this material. So this analysis short as they call it short, and in my opinion it has not fulfilled the task, i.e. expectations in terms of understanding the overall situation in this area. But here I go in a row. A few sentences on the Commission's report. This Commission report, and unfortunately this is increasingly a practice when it comes to Commission reports, is practically not helping MPs, of course it is our obligation and our own obligation is to make efforts, etc. but this commission work, and as is the case with this report, does not practically help understand the problem or give some kind of assessment of this information that would help us in further discussion, but is simply a report, 70% of the reports refer to convincing procedures and some assessment of concerns etc. I do not understand this, this Commission claim that there are no proposed measures of activity, etc. The proposed measures of activity exist in this information unless the Commission thought that specific measures and activities should be directed to this segment relating to the exchange with neighbours. So, so much for the Commission's report, I am absolutely not pleased to say so, nor has it helped me much to understand the problems and the proposed measures. As far as the information is concerned, I have been asked the question of the source of this data used by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, i.e. I have no information as to whether the State Statistics Agency has virtually unlimited and free permanent access to all data in entities in Brcko District, where there are specific statistical institutions, or whether these data are the result of one synchronised to say monitoring the situation in this area. So this one, a bit of an open question remains whether the data is completely accurate. With these grades that were given, etc. I'm particularly concerned about the two findings, and they're not commenting, they're not an explanation, etc. because it says that BiH is one of the most open economies in the world, especially in the region. Without any comment on what it means for this country and whether it's getting up and being in such a position without any more serious consequences. And another thing that wasn't explained, at least for me. So it is that BiH is exposed to major barriers to accessing most of its target markets, especially when it comes to food, agricultural products. So it's not explained what kind of barriers these are. Are these barriers not allowed to go beyond the World Trade Organisation standard, beyond the standards or agreements established by free trade contracts, etc. Information is practically information from the ministry. I could not find in the materials that the Council of Ministers practically considered this information and 123 stood behind it, so that these measures, proposed by the Council, proposed by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, could practically be interpreted as measures proposed only by the Ministry and not by the Council of Ministers. Why am I saying this? This problem is such a weight and such seriousness that it is simply not in itself that any ministry solves the problem of the overall action of all resistors in the society, etc. Because here the result is the product not only of economic factors but of a number of other factors, delays in reform, investments, relations, etc. which certainly reflect the overall result and therefore I believe that this, one ministry, regardless of what is relevant, is not to propose overall measures to the rise. Especially their coverage. And finally, when it came to the conclusions and suggestions that were finally made, I couldn't understand what was whose. There, you have it like this, instead of, in my opinion, instead of the recommendations of the Economic Institute that are listed, it says, the recommendations of the Economic Institute, and then it says, and some views from the material of this unit, one of the units in the Council of Ministers. And in the end, the final pearl, we would add to this. So the material processor first gives us the conclusions of other institutions and some attitudes and opinions and then as a material processor eventually says, and we would add something besides this. We think, or I think, that the Council of Minsitors should have come out with a clear diagnosis of the situation, all understood with the causes etc. and do practically based on this reliable diagnosis to make a practical proposal of a kind of therapy. So to embrace society's activities in solving these problems that are not just economical. So I don't know what the intention is, or what we can do today, or by receiving information, by accepting not accepting, supporting or not supporting it like this to say the formulated conclusions. So, I'm not some optimist, and even if we were to support this material that it is going towards solving the problem, so I think we should practically send a message to the Council of Ministers that this problem has a far wider dimension than what they have presented to this Parliament and that in one more serious way one platform must be created, to open a long-term process that would solve this very bad situation for BiH. Here, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19392	I would like to thank my colleague Belkić, especially for his kind words about the chairman, Mr. Šefik Džaferović, for the successful conduct of the meetings to this day, and, as words of encouragement, I personally try to manage these sessions successfully. I hope, I'll do everything I can to make it so and I'm asking you to help me, especially today, since I'm going to be a little harder to handle this technique, so if I make any mistakes, please understand that it's not intentional. Next, Mrs Dušanka Majkić answered her word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19393	The Honorable Chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19394	I'm sorry, I'm asking MPs to sign up on the keyboard so I can easily announce that I'm not making any mistakes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19395	Dear President, dear colleagues and fellow Members, after these holidays, I am pleased to see you again, and I want to welcome you all and all together, I wish you successful work. Before I decided to speak at all about this important item of the agenda, I wondered if it made any sense, since the representatives of the competent ministry did not consider that they should be present when discussing such an important agenda point. It is not the first time that the significant topics and discussions that are being held in this House remain without the answers of the competent ones and this says something in favour of the state of the country in which we are located. But the MP's responsibility requires me to say a few words on this subject. Indeed, it is not necessary to be an economist or to have a special education in this area to understand how difficult this country is and that the responsible authority, as well as this example, shows no minimum responsibility for the situation in which we are. We know that this is, we saw that BiH's trade deficit has crossed 6 billion marks and there is still a trend in growth, that export coverage barely reached 38%, that the trade deficit of 50% of the gross social product affecting the current account deficit of 17%. This alarming situation in one country, in fact, in every normal country, would produce a chain of government reactions to stop negative movements and introduce mechanisms to overcome the situation we are in. I remind you of the conclusion of the 53rd session of the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, which reads – that the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations in co-operation with the Department of Direct Taxation, prepares within 2 months information on the BiH trade deficit with the emergency programme for its reduction. So, instead of emergency measures to overcome unfavourable movements in the external trade... between BiH, a superficial material has been delivered to this parliament that can hardly be found a few important information that could be used for this debate. The material reflects the irresponsibility, inability and extreme amateurism of treating such a serious matter as to the alarming state of the country's economy. I wonder, and many of the members of the Commission were wondering when they were discussing it, did Minister Doko even read the material that his officials had sent to this parliament. Also, is it possible that this parliament does not enjoy even a minimum of respect for the authorities, that such shameful materials are being delivered to it for consideration. I want to believe what I'm doing so that we don't humiliate ourselves or other fellow Members of Parliament, if this material was not seen by the minister. And then again, I ask... as part of the material, general recommendations are listed, which are more academic views of the problem than the emergency plan. Recommendations are non-systematic and consistently prescribed certain studies of the Economic Institute, which we do not know either that 125 or on whose orders it was carried out, or whether any official institution adopted and whether those recommendations came from the BiH Trade Deficit Reduction Strategy, etc. That is why, as the Commission, we have also proposed to return this embarrassing material to the applicant and to request that the proposal for emergency measures containing a systematic proposal for emergency measures, operators and time limits for their implementation be drawn up as soon as possible. I repeat, we need an action plan with a proposal for short- and second-term measures. We need the bearers of this process and deadlines on the basis of which we might be able to monitor the execution of obligations. I would just like to point out that the Foreign Chamber of Commerce has created one comprehensive material based on a sufficiently good information system that allows for the analysis of various data on the external trade of BiH. As an MP, I think it is too much to suggest that members of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce participate in Parliament's work on these issues. After all, I know that mostly chambers of chambers are called and participated in their work. And what I think there are many good proposals that refer to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Trade, are the part that concerns the repair of BiH's foreign trade exchange, and I remind you, that the Foreign Chamber of Commerce has ignored a large number of requests made by the Association of Agricultural Producers from both entities, and that none of these requirements has found its place, although we are distracted that the ratio of food and live animals and tobacco to imports and exports are 1:10, 1:16 and that BiH should work in these fields. So much for getting started, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19396	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, members of the Council of Ministers, wishing that this last year's term of office of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives would go simply and be a year really in the full range and capacity of Parliament's functioning, especially from the aspect of the protures that stand before the state of BiH. In this context, the material that is ahead of us, I think that one of its definitions gives a large answer to this dramatic socioeconomic situation today in BiH. It says this, as counterpart Beriz read, the general conclusion is that BiH is one of the most open economies in the world, and especially in the Southeastern Europe region, which is unnaturally, illogically and contrary to the elemental economic principles, as BiH was destroyed 10 years ago, by a decomposed economic, infrastructure system and each other. And now, I'm really asking you how it's possible that a small country in the Balkans for 10 years after the catastrophic war could be the most open economy in the world, one of the most open, liberal ones. How is that even possible? The answer is that today we have a 44.5% unemployment rate, never recorded in Europe in history, 44.5%. It's about poverty that we don't even talk about, etc. And in that sense, I think the real material doesn't offer answers, giving only this definition the answer to why we're in such a difficult state. I am having an aferiti with all those who have run this country's economic policy for the past 10 years. It means that they led her against this country and that it was simply not adequate or suitable for a difficult, dramatic state from which BiH came out just 10 years before this time, which is war. And how we can be the most liberal and one of the most open economies in the world. How is that 126 possible? In the nearer environment of 8 countries etc. I'm reading you a sentence. He says BiH has preferences for exporting to European communities other than wine, fish and beef. Believe it or not, Europe is being protected. So there are no preferences within these three product groups, so fish, wine and beef. And BiH doesn't have... so it's sad real, how we see where this country is going. It's really sad that we don't have a complex of measures to stop this devastation of this country. Which means it's not enough by the ministry to send us a document that says the Sarajevo Faculty of Economics recommends. It's not a document for us. I'm sorry. The Faculty of Economics can be a consultant and the Ministry of Foreign Trade must accept it and refer as its material to this parliament. He can't, he says, here he says, recommending and studying the Sarajevo Economic Institution, and after that, it's sad to say it's sad, we would add the following to this, and then a few modest cartoons. So, really, people, what's this all about? Says the Ministry in the end, we'd add this to the next one. Which means, the material is unusable to me, objectively this is not a complex of measures that will stop the devastation and decommissioning of this economic model of this BiH country, is not the response to poverty reduction, nor is it the answer to the opening of new jobs, etc., and especially from the aspect of protecting domestic production. It says below, the development of standards and procedures for the application of sanitary, fitness and sanitary measures in imports of goods that would protect the domestic market from dangerous non-quality and non-compliant products. That's what they've been promising us since the beginning, really, this term. We've been hearing this for three years. So it's high time to implement it in the fullest sense, and eventually the material ends with it. I still don't think this material answers this thesis how to simply reduce this dramatic external and trade debadlant of BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19397	I thank Dr. Avdić. Mr. Jozo Križanović comes forward for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19398	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What I wanted to say, and I have to admit, my colleague and colleagues have already said very well. I want to express my deep disappointment and I don't know which way, astonishment by the Council of Ministers' relationship to the conclusions of this home. This brief analysis, as colleagues have already pointed out, is a material that can be fully understood to come from an institution, a scientific institution or a professional institute, which has from one professional point of view analysed the problems of BiH's imports and exports. And what can be concluded by this last passport, which is here by colleague Avdić, mentioned here, that, in addition to all these measures, problems and what should be taken, we would add to that further. So here's the obvious to this problem, so only one ministry through five of its observations without the Council of Ministers taking any position on this. So this is not about professional analysis of BiH's export problem. This is about, and this shows the Council of Ministers' relationship to one significant economic 127 issue, gentlemen. If we add to this both the previous conclusions and the previous relationship, as well as the Council of Ministers' relationship, and I would say even this parliament, according to certain initiatives that went towards reducing BiH's trade imbalances externally. I'll just mention the Tobacco Act, the Excise Tax Act, etc. which aimed to reduce imports in some way, to encourage domestic production, etc., we remained unfortunately deaf to these initiatives. And I wanted to say this, too, that I am sorry that today will go as it has been, and that the only institution in BiH that has had a chance to be a valuable institution, one serious institution, that is this Parliament, protecting this kind of unhappiness and this kind of relationship of the Council of Ministers, I'm afraid it will fall on that too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19399	I thank my colleague Križanović. The word is Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19400	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take part in this brief analysis of BiH's external trade with a finding that is at the very end of all this, that the state of foreign trade in BiH is not good, better said it has been extremely worrying and for a long time. Why? That's something that's said in conclusions and suggestions. Among the lines can be seen but something that is not said and which I will add, and it is probably skillfully bypassed to say directly affecting the work of those who are most responsible for this situation. However, I would ask those responsible at the Council of Ministers, or the Ministers of the Ministry what they are doing, what they have done to remove these findings in their proposals and conclusions because they have been present here for several years and not not to happen, but rather some and agree and become extremely worrying. What our embassies and consulates do besides their regular jobs, do they have certain services that they need to break these broken up and that affect this state don't connect, just this one, a group of tourists around the world because it says we don't even have such institutions that do it in this context. What the Chamber of Commerce does, unfortunately in the chamber system, is lost and does not reflect its adequate condition and the task it normally has. When it comes to listing in conclusions and suggestions, then here are the factors listed which in a certain way are the cause of the condition which is what it is, so the rest when it lists, I put it under 1.2.3 below 6, I say, a satisfactory infrared structure in the field of transport, etc. As far as I know, and I'm part of that commission, there's something going on between us, which is precisely about the work of the ministry that follows this work. It's not a flaw, there's a lack of something else. I have a few Uts of potential in this House. Unfortunately, no one reads or reacts to what I said. It is not said here next to a series of listed, that certain administrative barriers such as various permits, certificates and similar expensive and complex papers are also one of the reasons that people simply turn from fire to another side which may not even be legal, and not legal work that practically makes a black picture in this country. 128 Furthermore, the responsible do not follow the work of the neighbours, I put this under the supposed signs because they do not introduce countermeasures that are practically visible at every step when it comes to exporting from our country and importing goods into our country. And especially the weak work of our chambers doesn't solve their status because they don't show up in this problem. When it comes to the proposal for measures to reduce the trade deficit, here are the recommendations. We usually know in life that recommendations do not bind anyone. They're a simple story to apologize for and then what the government is doing, where concrete measures and activities have been taken to overcome this situation. Someone in this country has to be responsible for both this state and the state that should change. I don't see it from this. It's an invisible force that only goes from a distance and simply is not seen in life and work. So, in my view, I lack the responsibility of certain institutions of this country for this situation, and I, as a Member, want to say it publicly and to be seen according to the state in this country. I agree with some suggestions that this should be processed slightly differently, so that we MPs here and this people see and benefit from such material. We don't see any use for this material. We all understand this condition, but we don't see what's beyond it that could trigger activities that will overcome this state of affairs in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19401	I would like to thank my colleague, Moranjkić. I don't have any more reports, Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19402	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I join in a certain way my colleague Belkić, who thanked Mr Špirić for not holding the presidency for you, Džaferović, I apologize to this one, and congratulate you both both, as well as my fellow Raguž, who is preparing, will play until the end of this term if Bog gives good luck and health to him and to Bog and to us. I think I have to admit, I've waited really, I've lived in one hope obviously unnecessary, for the prime minister to appear, no longer a minister. The minister doesn't know exactly whether the minister is resigning or not, but regardless, this is such a big subject and we've initiated this topic precisely because of the importance. We dramatically initiated it. This parliament has accepted this unanimously, there is practically a full consensus between us that this is a topic which is a capital theme for the reform processes that it likes to say in this country. We have an analysis ahead of us, something called a brief analysis of states and measures. I think the title is half true. She's really short. It describes more the state that exists among the people who made it. But objectively, there's no analysis or measure here. I'm sorry that I'm saying this, I'm saying this like a lot of others, I'm going to be shorter so that a lot of people who are nervous about my move, uh, I'm turning their attention really short over what would be normal, for one simple reason I'm saying and for that and for that and for the sake of the public and for what should be left in writing. One day this will be yesterday. 129 One day this will be remembered by a time in which we had a power that had completely closed our eyes to reality, to economic reality above all in this country. And this country objectively, enters slowly by all parameters and by less, more to say, the conclusion and reasoning of all people, regardless of whether scientists, experts or ordinary people, the country objectively enters a recession that several parameters very clearly, and that is the number of unemployed growths, the number of employees declines, we see every day from statistical reports, the trade deficit grows. He was 5 billion two years ago, now last year he was 6.4. Corridor Vc, which was announced loudly three years ago, will most likely end up on round the toll one more time, and probably with another cheating attempt to try to make a new option that something is going on. I mean, I think that, that should say this material that we've got here, I've got to admit I've been thinking about whether it's gonna show up or not to show up people here. And I lived in the hope that he'd show up, but then I figured there was no way they'd show up. There are two reasons. One reason is that they won't show up because they read this after they sent it to us, they decided to read it. And when they read it, they decided not to show up. Because when they read it, it's perfectly logical that they don't show up to defend us. Another possibility is that they haven't read it, and it also justifies that they didn't show up. So, read them or not read, it makes sense that they won't show up here because this is something that fellow Špirić you correct me, here is counterpart Hadžiahmetović, I doubt this would be one seminarical at a higher school that would satisfy the country's passing score on the state of the country when it comes to the external trade deficit. I'm going to give an example so it won't be later for me to talk without an analytical background. The material says that in 2000, the deficit was 5.2 billion and that in 2002, the deficit was reduced to 5 billion. So for 2 years, the trading deficit in absolute amount fell by 5%. And then it says that in 2004, he went to 6.4, which means he increased by 30% in 2 years. You turn the next page, there's about the same whole other data. On the other side, there are data that is not clear to me at all, which, in the same material that I am speaking of, on the other hand, is completely incorrect, because the data that did not appear in any relevant international institution, which is standing, see for yourself, who doesn't know what I'm talking about, on the other hand, has a table containing these exact data from 2000 to 2002 and 2004, you see in 2002 that in those two years there was a decline in the trade deficit and that in 2004, it re-exploded and then you turn the next page, the first paragraph that says that in 2002 we had 6.9 billion deficits and that in 2004, it fell to 6.4 billion. So in the same material you see practically that in 2002 there is a deficit that has increased by 2 billion marks on two pages. I don't know if anyone knows of these people who wrote, how many 2 billion marks it's to rub in a figure that comes before Parliament. And on two pages. Not to say, that these conclusions that are given here, please take a look at the conclusion, is the first conclusion why it came to this. He says, because of the low level of production activities and the lack of stock funds for the foreign market. Whoever explains what this means, the goods don't have any goods. I mean, completely unserious that things like this should come to us. You're trebadte to be to say so by the lecturer, the one we're asking him about, and at the same time, he's a professor of economics to explain to himself that this really has nothing to do with his brain. Here in these factors that affect the trade deficit, among other things, you can see that everything we've said here that needs to be changed, they say that's the problem. On the list of factors affecting the level of the trade deficit, there are only 130 more missing ozone holes, tsunamis, and Bogami and this tarine these days. Everything that has absolutely nothing to do with us here is listed. And what has to do with us is missing. The first proposal for measures, to increase the costs of importers of final products whose production exists or is possible in BiH. Translated in our language, that excise law that we have regulated amendments and additions to the Excise Act, which has failed here, which the Council of Ministers was struggling not to adopt, which the parliamentary majority eventually accepted their position, is here the first recommendation is to do what we proposed a year ago and what they refused, the first recommendation. Look please about that some have spoken, the biggest deficit, the most unfavourable amount, is where? For drinks and tobacco, 1:16, that's what it says here. I'm going back to what I suggested. And we just suggested for the sake of the reason they're writing here, and again, instead of telling us, that the conclusion should be that we're going to go back to the agenda of some things that we've misjudged. So, I really think that this kind of material that came before us would be best if I didn't want to paraphrase it right now, but my colleague Majkić suggested that this conclusion, that this material be returned and that it be the conclusion of Parliament and that it is asked by the Council of Ministers to give us an emergency programme that will be converted into at least 3-4 laws or amendments to the laws that are here so notorally repeated. And what my colleague Avdić was talking about, I mean, it's really something that needs to be drawn specifically. That's what after they've written the conclusions, then eventually they're saying they'd add something else. I mean, it really, it even loses its sports character, I mean, if someone wanted to play with us. And, Mr. Chairman, in the hope of coming at least to the next point, I end with this.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19403	I thank Dr. Lagumdžija. The word was received by Šefik Džaferović, vice-president, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19404	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all. I could agree with many discussions that have been discussed here so far on this topic that talk about the unsatisfactory state of foreign trade of BiH at the moment, but I went out for a pay phone just to say some things that seem intentional or unintended to me, I don't know, but standing here in the material was not said today in the debate. We have had this situation in the foreign trade in BiH since yesterday. Whoever has looked at the table in the past five years can see trends in foreign trade in BiH and it is fair to say what these trends are and that is why I went out for this speaker. And that's to increase the trading deficit in the nominal amount from year to year and that's true. But to increase the coverage of BiH exports, which is a key category for me, because from year to year, BiH, regardless of the unsatisfactory situation, is growing by an increased rate of exports from BiH compared to imports, although 131 in nominal terms the external trade deficit is increasing from year to year. It's clearly in this information. I came out here for a pay phone to say, therefore this thing, that no matter how unsatisfactory the situation in this area is, there is a positive trend. The only question now is whether these measures are adequate to the Council of Ministers, whether they are using every possibility to speed up this trend in the future and to improve the situation in this area year after year. Import coverage, by exporting in 2000, was 27.69%, in 2001. 27.53, in 2002 27.44, in 2003 27.95%, in 2004 32% and in the present period, I think for the first 6 months of 2005, 37.92%. And that trend here should be pointed out. So I just came out correct for the sake of it. I agree with the many discussions that were here to say this thing, and to take another note of this information Mr. Lagumdžija pointed out in his discussion, which is that I now find it unclear from this information whether the external trade deficit in BiH is growing or dropping from year to year in nominal terms? There are data on page 2 of this information that say that the above table shows that the trading deficit has crossed nominally, a nominal figure of 6 billion KM and shows a constant trend of growth. However, according to the following page, according to the data given in the above-mentioned study, the Sarajevo Economic Institute, used by the Statistics Agency and the Central Bank of BiH data, has shown a slight decline trend in 2002 in 6.8 million, possibly billions, thousands of millions, and so on in 2003, 6.7, 2004, 6.4, etc. I'm saying, I went out for this pay phone thinking it's fair to say this, if nothing is said for us here and for the Bosnian-Herzegovina public because BiH is not in this state since yesterday. So this is one longer period of time. Mr. Sead Avdić also spoke of the reasons in some way and it is fair to say that in this area no matter how unsatisfactory we were and how unacceptable it is for me, the positive trends present and that they are improving year by year because for me, although I am not an economist, there is a professor here from that area, but here I am also allowing myself to say at the cost of saying something that can be subject to criticism, it is important that our exports grow at a higher rate than they are growing from year to year, the increasing coverage of imports from BiH. When it comes to the fate of this information, I can join colleagues and colleagues who point to the lack of measures that are highlighted in this information. I think it would be good to ask the Council of Ministers to do what has been said so far, to make one emergency or emergency plan whatever you want, a measure in areas where it is possible to do so without injure the basic principles promoted in free trade contracts, so as not to violate the principles of modern world trade and trends. I mean here on economic liberalism, economic protectionism, so we don't fall into that kind of mistake. So, where possible and I think it's possible. Some examples are also highlighted here, such as tobacco and other products, to make a proposal for emergency or emergency measures that will speed up and improve the situation or this mild trend of improvement, in the case of otherwise unsatisfactory situation in external trade. 132 I am particularly interested here in this measure which says, in order to ensure a higher degree of subsidisation of imports, to ensure greater subsidisation of agricultural production, not including export subsidies. I think that once we have to open this issue here in the state parliament, although I know that entity governments and entity levels of government are competent to regulate the issue of subsidies when agricultural production is on Wednesday. We must put it here in the state parliament because it is obvious that agriculture is the resource of BiH which is not only not used enough, I would say that its potential has been minimally exploited, but is not properly treated by neither the state authorities nor the entity bodies, and I think that there is a great chance and great activity ahead. So many waves to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19405	I thank my colleague Džaferović. Who's next to the word? No one's answering, is it a replica or a discussion again? Doctor Lagumdžija replica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19406	Call it whatever you want, I agree with what Mr. Džaferović was saying. I mean, it needs some things, but don't do this, let's try to darken what's really going on with the numbers. The fact that imports are growing slower than exports, in mathematics in numbers at this rate of growth, both of them, only extends the gap and increases the trade deficit. If exports are 10 units and imports are 30.3 times higher, which is now covered by us, if at the beginning of the four-year term you have 5 billion deficits, in 4 years this trend will increase to 10 billion, it is the mathematics that Džaferović is saying, rightly. So, it's not the point of importing us so to say, it's growing faster than export growth, the problem is that this growth in exports is just a mathematical fraud and a mirage because it's not enough to catch up with such a gap and at this rate that we have now in 4 years will double the trade deficit and we'll be happy that mathematics says we've increased exports. It's just that this country's economy can't handle this, that's what people are talking about. The country's economy with this trend in two years is completely on its knees, completely. They won't go bankrupt, countries don't go bankrupt, but the economy is on its knees. That's just it. Stepen, I mean it, I know why Azra won't or counterpart Špirić about talking about it, because they think you should know. But the point is that the elemental, macroeconomic models say that with this trend of the trade deficit we are going into an even greater recession, that unemployment will be even higher, employment even lower. That's the end of the whole story. And that's why this should bring people back to say, we're warning you that these figures themselves are the reason for the alarm, not for accepting the knowledge of inroffication. We won't achieve anything if we know her, if we make some bureaucratic formulation. I think this has been received. And that's why I'd just ask that we don't fool ourselves because we're all going to get hit by this economic tsunami.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19407	Thank you very much. In spite of your predictions, Dr Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19408	Of course, I want to say hello, I do not want to abuse the place with which I am chairing, and I will not, of course, speak for long because here, through this information we have received, there are various dilemmas opening up and I almost agree with all the colleagues who have discussed today but I do not call this information that Parliament has asked for. This is called getting out of work. This kind of information that we have received offends the dignity and dignity of the state parliament and every MP, whether more or less understood. And there's no such thing as getting an explanation on two pages of which we cannot conduct extensive parliamentary debates. But there's a question of purpose. The question arises here whether the ministry's resolution and the Council of Ministers has been capacitated to define and formulate the foreign trade policy of BiH. And I don't need to hide in front of the weaknesses we have at all levels. So, I'm not saying this like Nikola Špirić, who is from the opposition party, but I'm saying that we need to look the truth into the eyes as a state Parliament simply to let the Council of Ministers know that we will not be discussing materials that are not at the level that the state Parliament can contribute to certain things in this country being regulated in the interests of its citizens. And that's why I think if there's no clear foreign trade policy, then it's impossible to define any measure and that's why this material is the way it is. I think the Third Council of Ministers will return this information and ask for not a brief analysis, but an analysis of the situation as it is with clear measures that can encourage what everyone has talked about today, especially Dr. Lagumdžija. I am opposed to our parliamentary committees, and we fellow MPs being elected by words, saving the Council of Ministers, and not saying that we are unhappy with what we are instructed in the procedure. It will be the strongest support and the chairman of the Council of Ministers as well as the restoring ministries to see what weaknesses they have inside. A serious question arises whether the resolution ministries have been allocated to each area and to the problems in which BiH is located. This is an obvious example that they are not and that people simply do not read the information that they provide to the state parliament. We could say this if we believe in the College that the information is incomplete and that we don't put it on Parliament. But we all want to come to the realization that something's wrong and something can't be done like this. I agree with everyone here and with my colleague Džaferović and everyone who discussed this information should be asked by the Council of Ministers to make full information so that the conclusions of the state parliament are of benefit to the citizens of BiH, otherwise I would not consider this discussion to be meaningful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19409	Thank you very much, no more reporting for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19410	Ladies and gentlemen, since there's no record of a hearing, we still have to have some conclusions. You know, I have read that it is the Commission's conclusion that the Council of Ministers, that the Council of Ministers requests, that the Council of Ministers draw up an action plan that will contain the proposal for measures and the bearers of activities and deadlines for their statement. This is the Commission's proposal. I think it should be here, many have said that this information is not accepted but that this Parliament is looking for the full information that will contain this, 134 action plans and operators of activities and deadlines for their execution when it comes to foreign trade policy.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19411	With special reference to the emergency plan in areas where it is possible to do so immediately.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19412	Here, with special reference to the emergency plan and that's good if I can, therefore, not a problem, I agree. Can we make a statement about this conclusion? Please let us be clear about this conclusion. Vote now. The conclusion that, therefore, that Parliament has not accepted this material, that it is asking the Council of Ministers to return it to the Council of Ministers for the Council of Ministers to come out with a new programme with therefore concrete measures of plans and with urgent measures to address the problem in the context of external trade. Please, this is a proposal and part of the Commission's proposal and colleagues Džaferović and the people who discussed today, Dr Lagumdžija and others. So I'm trying to make a proposal that would be acceptable to everyone. So please vote for this proposal now. Just a little patience, please, let's get the technique back to the vote again. No, I didn't vote, so I guess the others didn't vote, so we go back to voting. So vote now. For therefore a total of 29 for, from Federation 23.6 from RS So I find this conclusion accepted. Moving to the tenth point of the agenda that's Ad.10. A proposal for measures to mitigate the consequences of price increases in basic life intentions following the introduction of the VAT you received material for this point at the 9th session of both BiH Parliaments Assembly homes. The proposal for a measure was discussed by the Commission responsible for finance and the budget and you received a report from the Commission. Just to remind you, the Commission has found that the issue of developing social programmes is the responsibility of entity governments and has proposed to the House to adopt a conclusion that the House recommends to the entity governments that the proposal for measures to mitigate the consequences of the increase in the price of basic life intentions is used as a basis for the introduction of VAT as a starting point for the development of social programmes. So this is the committee's proposal after she looked at and analyzed these materials. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Milićević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19413	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to request a five-minute break because there's a document here. We didn't discuss this document on the committee. This is what it means.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19414	So you're looking for a five-minute crawl.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19415	I asked the Secretary of the Commission to bring in the original document so that we could be among ourselves.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19416	Will five minutes be enough?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19417	Five minutes is fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19418	Five minutes break at the SDS Club's request, commission. We've got enough MPs, we've got a quorum. [[PAUZA]] At the request of the committee in charge, we had a five-minute break. I'm asking if there's any need to explain the reasons for the break? Mrs. Milićević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19419	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. So it turns out we were actually right looking for this break. As you know, all of us in June and received a proposal for mitigation measures due to the rise in the price of basic life intentions due to the introduction of VAT, Sarajevo, in June 2005. That document was considered by the Commission at its session and on 26 July and at the session of the House which followed it, the report on the document concerned was submitted, as this item of the agenda was included at that session. That report is still in front of you today because we are continuing this session today. However, during that session, another material that has been expanded and has other areas was distributed. So, an extended version, innovated, July 2005. Sarajevo, which the Commission has not given an opinion on. In fact, we have this document, to be clear and to understand it, because it means specific matter to the Commission. So I am obliged to inform you that this document, which bears the date of July, which has been extended with certain recommendations, conclusions, the proposal for activity, was not a proposal, in fact, the subject of the Commission. We've received this previous document and I believe you've all read this document as well. Now, the way we're going to receive that document, I'd love to, so we're actually the chairmanship of the Commission, Mrs. Lehoe and Mrs. Sopta, in this pause, consulted. We know what we're talking about, there's a difference. Whether, in what way will the House approach, since this is a hot topic and topic 136 that we have long been waiting for and to say what anyone thinks about this point of the agenda, and today probably the basic point of the continuation of this session, I would like to make clear about the way it works. So the relationship actually to the document. The Commission has a relationship on the first document and now we have an extended document and I would like to hear your suggestions how to get out of this situation. Maybe the Secretary of the House can explain business, but I'm saying, it's not the law, it's not something the amendments are being applied to.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19420	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19421	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19422	Mrs. Milićević. We were planning to now give a word to the chairman of the Council of Ministers to talk about what is called the programme, which is from the authority of the Council of Ministers. I am asking you for one collegiate debate in order to benefit from it and the governments of entities that have to form social programmes and therefore, in the end, I will conclude on this first conclusion of the Commission, for the first material, of course, that the chairman of the Council of Ministers will cover all of this, and that the stenogram from this debate will deliver to all those whose jurisdiction is therefore, from the social sphere. Therefore, I ask you MPs to be correct and, of course, aware of the difficult economic and social situation, to make a concrete contribution, so that these social programmes, if the entity governments make them, are as good as they can be, than onteres for the citizens of BiH. So, I give my word, I say hello first, so I give my word to the chairman, Mr. Adnan Terzić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19423	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, let me just briefly refer to what the President of the Commission has stated. So it is true that we had one version and that version we also had on the Committee, in fact, at the coordination for economic development and European integration and at the two sessions of the Fiscal Council of BiH, which in the meantime was formed and made up of three prime ministers and three finance ministers. So at these meetings we added actually the original material and you noticed that these were actually more clarifications and additions than some changes in the strategy itself and so on. So I guess, after this presentation today, we can have a quality debate that will consider these additions as well. Therefore, the proposal for measures to mitigate the consequences of an increase in the prices of basic life intentions following the introduction of VAT and material created in co-operation with state-level institutions, as well as the co-operation of the Council of Ministers with entity governments. 137 This is the material that is the permanent point of the BiH Fiscal Council agenda, which we are constantly reviewing to reach as high-quality social programme as possible for the introduction of VAT. We have previously provided you with an inoculated version of the proposal for measures to mitigate the result of an increase in the prices of basic life supplies following the introduction of a VAT containing the additions of data to the previous version you have also received. The complemented parts concern the completion of an analysis of the social protection system in BiH, a projection of revenues to fund social programmes for the introduction of VAT, covering around 100,000 new people who should also be included in the social protection programme. It is a population that is concentrated directly above the poverty line. Thus, a new one has been established, i.e. an increase in the amount necessary for the implementation of social programmes for the introduction of VAT. A new résumé has been given, covering the activities that have been completed so far. A proposal for new measures involving the protection of poor categories in the purchase of textbooks, medicines, as well as measures to ensure the protection of agricultural production of betrayal and printing and compensation to health funds for the payment of VAT on health services has been made. Finally, certain errors that have been subdued in the previous material have been corrected in the infused material. I would like to point out in particular that the proposal for measures to mitigate the consequences of an increase in the prices of basic life supplies is the result of the introduction of VAT materials that we constantly supplement with entity institutions. A recent job has been done to conduct a survey on household consumption which confirms the main allegations of this document. However, in order to produce more precise social programmes, we will further supplement the proposal for measures to mitigate the consequences of the increase in basic life-saving prices with the findings in this survey. In view of this, we are prepared to introduce you to the supplements that we will continue to work on the proposal for measures to mitigate the consequences of an increase in the prices of basic life supplies if you ask us to. Proposal for measures to mitigate the consequences in the text below, Proposal for measures. The proposal was drawn up by the Economic Planning and Implementation Unit of the Mid-term Development Strategy and the Office of the Prime Minister's Presidency. Adopted by the Co-ordination Committee on Economic Development and European Integration, and by the Fiscal Council of BiH. Presented to the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board. Given that the Council of Ministers has no responsibility for social protection, the proposal for measures is only a proposal for entity governments. The entity prime ministers and finance ministers through the BiH Fiscal Council sessions accepted the proposal for measures as the basis for the development of their social programmes. The proposal for measures to mitigate the consequences of the increase in basic consumer prices following the introduction of VAT is based on survey data living in BiH wave IV. Poll data live in BiH wave IV are consistent with household spending survey data. A preliminary report on the state of poverty in BiH for the period 2001-2004 then, based on an analysis of household spending in BiH and on a macroeconomic economic projection for 2006, which includes a VAT-based revenue projection. The draft measures for the IPPU included the macro-economic unit of the BiH Direct Taxation Authority, the BiH Statistics Agency and the entity. Therefore, only data and technical assistance from the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank were used. The proposal focuses on 680,000 people in BiH. Of these, 347 people in RS and 333 thousand persons in the Federation of BiH. The most endangered part, about 30% of the population located directly above the poverty line, is 109,000 persons in BiH, 25,000 persons in RS and 84,000 persons in the Federation of BiH. 138 The proposal is based on an analysis of the consumption of households in BiH that includes flour, bread, milk, oil sugar, personal hygiene, detergents and cleaning products for the apartment, water, electricity and wood for the heating of the apartment. This graph shows the share of spending of the poor and the poor in total spending in BiH. The share of spending of the poor is the largest, for flour 17% and the smallest for bread, 5%. The share of the poor population's tax in the total amount of tax collected from all 10 product categories is less than 17%. This means that the introduction of VAT will have the greatest impact on the non-poverty categories of the population. At the same time, it is not necessary to ignore the impact of any of these products on the poor. Accordingly, it is necessary to apply appropriate social protection measures for BiH's most vulnerable categories. The total amount needed to mitigate the result of price growth following the introduction of VAT at BiH level requires 50.44m KM for the poor population 43.48m KM for entities 24.12m for the Federation and 19.36m for RS. For the population directly above the poverty line, 6.96 million and 5.36 million for the Federation and 1.60 million for RS. Total revenues based on sales tax in 2006 are expected to be around 220 million KM of which about 154.3 million KM will be lost on new VAT revenues. Out of VAT-based total income, around 33% are planned to be allocated to social programmes for the introduction of VAT. Although significant steps have been taken in 2004 and 2005, towards centralising the social protection system, in particular in the Federation of BiH, it is still necessary to reorganise this sector in order to make the funds allocated to social programmes most efficient. This implies the need for all socially endangered in BiH to have the same level of compensation. It is very important to stress that this analysis does not address the overall needs of the population for social protection but only a small part of the need to mitigate the consequences of the growth of basic food prices following the introduction of VAT. Therefore, here the proposed income should be additional social threats compared to what they already have on the basis of social protection. It is also important to note that the International Monetary Fund has carried out an evaluation of the allocation for social programmes based on the introduction of VAT and that their recommendations for the introduction of social programmes are going about 25 million KM, two times lower than the amount in this proposal. Furthermore, it is important to stress that the social programme, based on this proposal, is based on the assumption that the total number of BiH residents is 3 million and 800,000, although surveys on the measurement of living standards and the survey on household consumption estimate that less people live in BiH, i.e. About 3.5 million. Finally, this proposal was made on the assumption that the poor in BiH should be returned to the full amount of VAT on basic life supplies, not just the difference between the current level of sales tax and VAT. So, it can be said that when making an assessment of the level of the social programme envisioned by the proposal, the measures tried to protect the poor maximum in BiH. 139 Reorganisation of the social protection system. The system of fighting and child protection in RS is only done in an adequate manner. Other categories of social threats do not receive any or very low aid because they depend on the material condition of the canton in the Federation of BiH and municipalities in RS. As a result of an unsettled social protection system, more than 300,000 poor people are not covered by any form of social protection, and most of this applies to the poor in RS. It is necessary to reorganise the social protection system in order to ensure the same protection of all socially endangered people in BiH and to avoid the situation shown by this chart where it can be seen that Canton Sarajevo provides even 73% of the total funds for childcare in the Federation of BiH. How to prevent manufacturers and traders from unfairly increasing prices by introducing VAT. The existing public debate on VAT, which focuses only on price growth, gives the perfect alibi to manufacturers and traders to unwarrantedly raise prices and make extra profits. All analyses show that high profits are being made on bread today and that there is no reason for its collection even under the conditions of VAT introduction. In addition, p.h. for VAT registration is high and amounts to 50,000 KM which is another factor that should affect price increases, that price increases here are minimal. This chart shows that the price of bread has been growing in the past. One reason was the increase in the price of wheat. However, the price of bread never fell when the price of wheat fell, which means that producers and traders were constantly seeking to make a super profit and would also seek to use VAT for those purposes. Therefore, it is necessary to launch a public campaign and include the NGO sector in monitoring price developments. Let me say something about activities so far. The proposal for measures to mitigate the consequences of the rise in basic consumer prices is presented to the Management Board of the BiH Direct Taxation Board. The proposal for measures to mitigate the consequences of the rise in basic consumer prices following the introduction of VAT was adopted by the Co-ordination Committee on Economic Development and European Integration as well as by the Fiscal Council. Both bodies are involved in the work of state and entity prime ministers and finance ministers. This in response to some dissonant tones that we have from the Social Policy Ministry in the Federation of BiH government. What is more, so far the activities of the entity government have adopted the proposed measures to mitigate the effects of the growth of basic food prices following the introduction of VAT as the basis for their social programmes for next year. The federal parliament passed the Law on Fundamentals of Social Protection, the Protection of Civil Victims and Family Protection with Children, which will centralise social protection at the level of the Federation of BiH. The Ministry of Labour and Social Protection of the Federation of BiH has drafted a bill on the protection of families with children, which has received a positive opinion from all cantons. This law plans to foster a children's protection fund at the level of the Federation of BiH. As part of the survey to live in BiH, wave IV, statistical institutions conducted polls. A standard standard of living survey of about 3,000 households in both entities. Statistical institutions have also conducted surveys on household consumption in BiH on a sample of 7,000 households in both entities. The unit of economic planning and implementation of the medium-term development passions of the IPPU has drafted a preliminary report on the state of poverty in BiH. The Economic Planning and Implementation Unit of the medium-term IPPU Development Strategy has formed an analysis of the consumption of basic needs in BiH. 140 So this is all what we're talking about so far. The Economic Research and Implementation Unit of the IPPU and the macro-economic unit operating at the Governing Board of BiH's Direct Taxation Board formed a macroeconomic projection for 2006, which includes a VAT-based income projection. Technical assistance from the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank has been realised. As part of the negotiations on the new haystack arrangement, agreement was reached with the IMF that part of VAT-based revenues were used to mitigate the effects of the price rises in basic food products following the introduction of VAT. An agreement has been reached with the World Bank to use part of a future loan to support corporate restructuring in BiH for the implementation of the Programme to mitigate the effects of the price rises in basic food products following the introduction of VAT. The funds for the implementation of a public campaign for the introduction of VAT, to be managed by the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board, with a view to preventing unfair price increases by producers and traders. What are the next activities? It is necessary that entity governments, as part of budget preparation for next year, include funds to mitigate the result of the growth of basic food prices following the introduction of VAT. It is necessary that the government of the Federation and the parliament of the Federation of BiH adopt a law on the protection of families with children in order to establish a federal children's fund. At the same time, it is necessary for the Federation of BiH Finance Ministry to define a new mechanism for the distribution of income between the Federation of BiH government and cantonal governments. It is necessary for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt amendments to the Social Protection System Act which would raise social protection to entity level and reduce the role of municipalities in the assignment and implementation of rights. It is necessary that entity pension funds form a list of pensioners below 200 KM for 2005. It is necessary for the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, the Directorate for Direct Taxation of BiH and the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to consider the possibility of adopting a decision to reduce the customs rate on paper imports in order to mitigate the effects of prices for books, brochures, journals and publications of scientific, artistic, cultural and educational character for official newspapers and daily and weekly press, which are currently not subject to sales tax. It is necessary that entity governments ensure greater subsidisation of agricultural production in order to mitigate the impact of price growth due to the introduction of VAT on natural and artificial fertilisers and plant protection products of all kinds of seed and fruit material, as well as equipment for agricultural production which is currently not subject to sales tax. It is necessary to ensure a greater issue towards health funds in order to compensate for the amount of VAT to be charged on the basis of the provision of health care services which are currently not subject to sales tax. It is necessary for the cantonal and municipal governments to develop a subsidy programme for VAT payments for medicinal products supplied by beneficiaries of social assistance and pensioners with low pensions, since drugs are currently exempt from paying taxes on the market. It is necessary for the cantonal municipal governments to develop a subsidy programme to pay VAT for the purchase of textbooks for pre-school, primary, secondary, higher and higher education by households that are users of the social protection system, since these goods are currently exempt from the payment of sales taxes. It is necessary that governments in BiH, therefore, by the end of October 2005 achieve agreement with the World Bank on the conclusion of credits to support budgets that would be used to finance the programme of mitigation due to the rise of basic consumer prices following the introduction of VAT. 141 It is essential that the Governing Board of BiH's Direct Taxation Board implements a public campaign to introduce a VAT which will aim to prevent the unjust rise in prices of manufacturers and traders. It is necessary to train the Directorate for indirect taxation to ensure the return of VAT within the legal period. A further survey of the survey on household budgets needs to be carried out to further facilitate the more precise determination of the level of entity measures to mitigate the consequences of VAT, introduce VAT on target groups in BiH. In conclusion, I would like to stress that employment growth is the best social programme for the socially endangered population in BiH. The introduction of VAT should ensure that the business climate improves and faster growth of the economic sector, which will lead to the very improvement of the standard of living of all BiH residents. The introduction of a single rate VAT was supported by the majority of BiH scientific workers, the Association of Businessmen, the Foreign Chamber of Commerce and the Association of Farmers, which is a very important segment in the implementation of this reform and should be kept in mind when discussing the consequences of the introduction of the VAT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19424	I would like to thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers for the presentation. I'm opening a debate. Dr. Živković answered for the word, then Mr. Potočnik. And please log in over the keyboard, it's easier. I'll make less mistakes in giving words.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19425	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, seems to me that the point, the previous item of the agenda we had, has made a certain cream for this point, and when I was wondering why we were even discussing this, we practically came to the conclusion that it was all because of the VAT. So, when we passed the VAT Act, the single rate, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I remember, well said to the speaker, MPs only asking that you believe me, that when a single rate law is passed, there will be more money and that money will be evenly distributed to the poor. There was a lot of discussion here at the time, and it's been said that we're going to make a lot more trouble than we have right now. We may have more money but we'll have a lot more problems because our people are otherwise untrustworthy and it's particularly untrustworthy to, to make money evenly. It means everyone who has a little and who has a lot and then hopes for some reasonable time that the money will be returned to him. I am therefore interested that this presentation was and could have been done before we passed the VAT Act, would the MPs who are sitting here at all vote for the VAT Act on a single rate, because this presentation now gives us much more information and material and fear than we had about VAT law with a unique rate when we asked for various calculations. When we talk about the material that we got here, I'm going to talk about the material that the Commission was considering, I'm not going to look back at this new material, and I'm being questioned in the material itself. The first sentence of this material is probably copied somewhere from an foreign magazine where it says that the individual's standard of living depends on consumption and not on the amount of income, is very questionable to me, because, you know, by translating at 142 us into our area means if you have 100 income marks doesn't matter what you have 100, it's important that you don't spend them all and your standard of living will be pretty good to you. It is also said that many people in the farm at home have beams and work, so they prepare home food, so that it will not apply to them, and on the other hand this VAT raises both for agricultural products and for crops and for seedlings so that it is questionable for the rural household that has so far had to eat and live, as it will be worn. The strangest thing was to say that other countries' experiences showed that there could be greater consumption of rice compared to bread. It's probably thinking that now everything, every day there are more Chinese here, so that's why there's going to be more rice consumption than bread because I can't believe that our people are just going to have a VAT to be projected, you know, on rice and not stay on bread. As far as the calculations here on page 26 are concerned, it is said practically that, on the basis of only these 10 living intentions where the purchases will take place, it is necessary to spend 43 million to reduce or mitigate the consequences of price increases. In which, when we divide it into 3.3 members of the household as far as there is, it is assumed that there is in BiH, to mention that we do not have a census, that we have never done it or intend to, that it will receive the family of 211 marks annually. Divided into 12 months, about 17 marks. So a family that has nothing to eat should get 17 marks a month and get 10 of those groceries off those 17 marks... We will not talk about the VAT that affects the sick, hits the children, hits the poor even more and is only introduced for one single reason, that what we talked about at the previous point, BiH is at bankruptcy but the state as a state will not go bankrupt but will introduce VAT, will collect that part of the income from the citizens, whether they are poor or rich, will survive and will survive the International Monetary Fund that needs to take that debt money and thank Bog if it can be a little longer in charge of BiH so that international organisations and everyone else can collect and regularly service the debts. This is why VAT is introduced, especially with a unique rate. I can only conclude that in this way, as Parliament state, we have made a law that is state and the problem we have brought down on entities, cantons and municipalities. And that's why it's as easy as the commission and as Parliament we say we're not interested, you know, we've passed the law and now, he's going to make social programs down there, etc. Although I would remind my colleague Palavrić who said there would be no VAT until the social programmes were completed. Since they hold most of the authorities in certain municipalities, I hope that there will really be no introduction of VAT until these social programs but not with 17 marks per month are introduced. The conclusion of all of this is that after the introduction of VAT, we can expect the poor to be even poorer, that the sick will be even sicker because they will not have enough money to pay for the drugs that will rise, that the children will not be because the economic factor in the fact that the family wants to have more children is likely to decide, that we do not count on education and culture to be at a lower level because we have taxed the children's textbook to book as well. I believe that the Prime Minister, or chairman of the Council of Ministers, had the intention that when he said that you believed it would come. But I assure you, and if it were to come to that money going into social programs, most of that money would be spent on the administration, on what you said here, our social sect is nothing, so we need to develop it. So most of the money needs to be spent on developing that sector to get 143 situations that you know and those 17 marks, somebody remembers down there that if we got a family of those 17 marks, it would probably be this one, the one who runs that family, drank it, so let's sort it out another way, give them some flour, give them some corn, and in that way, or we'll open up some folk kitchen somewhere, so the social program means taking it another way and that the family that needs to get it never gets it. And in the end, I can only say that this report from our commission would have ended with this third passport where she said she was considering the Predolgo measure and took it into account. This below is absolutely unnecessary and suggests to the governments that have already considered and adopted this, that they will use this again for their starting point. So I propose this report to our commission means that only in the third paragraph will it stop and after that there is nothing left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19426	I thank my colleague Živković. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19427	Just a little intervention to make, given that this discussion would not make the other MPs fall into a trap that was trapped by MP Živković. So, consciously or unconsciously, I'd like it more if it were conscious and I'd be sorry if it were unconscious. But what is it? So this is a social programme, which is a response by the authorities to the fact that there will be certain gatherings since VAT is being introduced. This social programme is only part of a comprehensive social package in BiH. And if we're looking at whether it's a little or a lot of 5.5 marks, then we can't look at it by the numbers, but by the checks, how did those 5.5 marks happen? This is the government's answer to all the demagogues that some MPs in this assembly used when we discussed on the topic of VAT introduction. So, it's just about those items that eventually, if they collect, will endanger socially endangered categories. So, categories that fall into the order of the poor. And don't link the figures from this social programme to the comprehensive social protection in BiH because that's not it. So you asked the government to come out with the numbers and if the figures showed that the disaster you announced when we adopted the VAT Act, it would be worth 5.5 marks for each man and this program tells you that you were announcing something that really doesn't represent any disaster. So I will ask the MPs only to clearly distinguish in their discussions what MP Živković did not distinguish. This applies only to the fact that certain gatherings will increase the issuance of poor people and if they are quantified by 5.5 marks, then know that this is the case and that we can talk about 50 marks but that the difference between 5.5 and 50 marks is pure demagogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19428	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Again, Mr. Živković's replica. I would ask you, therefore, to receive the right to replicate anyone who asks, to try to lead this debate today, to come to something that is generally useful, not to turn this session into a replica forever. So, Dr. Živković, here you go. So please colleagues, I won't take anyone's right to replica, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19429	Just a brief chairman of the Council of Ministers. We would probably all be pleased to have received a total number except for these 10 lifetime supplies and everything else that will increase and how much the state will refund through all the other programmes, and then come up with whether or not there is a difference. It turns out that there are differences here, however, I assure the Council of Ministers that the way I think about implementing this social programme will eat most of these social benefits that are meant to be given and will not be evenly distributed and that only the introduction of VAT with a single rate has caused more problems than it would have done if VAT had been introduced at a higher rate. And also, MPs read the same material as me, will see if they have made a mistake in the discussions that follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19430	I thank Dr. Živković. A colleague called Mladen Potočnik. Have Dr. Sead Avdić prepare.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19431	Ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of VAT is a necessity and inevitability and it's one of the components of law enforcement in this country. At this point we have for the past year 13.2 billion GDPs and 6 billion grey economies. Only 17% on those 6 billion is a billion. We've decided to bring in one step, maybe it's a good one and maybe it's not a good one, which we'll unfortunately see. As far as the Social Programme of the Council of Ministers is concerned, it was estimated to be 50 million. And this should be followed immediately after the first month and the second month, whether these funds are really enough. But what's wrong with all this is that virtually no system has been provided for that money, from that 50 million to the users. That is why I propose to this House that the Council of Ministers, at one of the next sessions, propose a system that will be adopted at the level of the BiH state, that this money actually comes to socially endangered persons. It's perfectly normal that when you make a plan you have a score, it's perfectly normal that this plan is never 100% and it's perfectly normal to correct that plan. Let's think positively once and let's help each other in this case to the Council of Ministers to help people who are really going to be socially endangered, and let's not constantly turn a concrete policy into politics. I therefore propose, in conclusion, that we make a request to the Council of Ministers to bring a concrete system at one of the next sessions that this money will come to the users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19432	I thank my fellow Potočnik. I would ask that this conclusion in writing be delivered to us so that if he insists that we plead, he insists. Dr. Avdić has his word. 145
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19433	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, respected members of the Council of Ministers, I must confess as an MP that today we have three items for this item of the agenda, relatively richly designed, and we cannot stand by simply to have no information. It's objectively true and it's good to have innovative versions that kind of design still design these documents. So, under two, this is also the right way and approach to address a difficult life-saving existential issue that will certainly be apostrophyd and articulated by the introduction of VAT and I can also congratulate Parliament to simply approach its conclusions in this way, with the help of normal, Council of Ministers etc. Which could not be said, let's say these estimates for the previous item of the agenda that also caused a lot of controversy. What should be pointed out is that the general impression of the public change is that BiH is very reluctant to introduce VAT and that the ratio of the general population is simply with a chill and with a high degree of concern it looks at the introduction of VAT. It means that from the point of view of promoting this measure, and the introduction of a single VAT system means a unique VAT rate has the feeling that BiH is unprepared for, from the aspect of the impressions and the simple feelings of ordinary people. Which means there must be a lot to be done in the campaign for the introduction of VAT. For this reason, this will also result in an increase in the prices of basic life supplies. You will not prevent independent entrepreneurs with these documents from providing themselves until VAT funds are recovered, etc. Which means that there is much to be done in terms of promotion and attitude towards an ordinary man from the aspect of VAT introduction. What worries me is there's no methodology here that's been used to identify who's poor, who's poor. Who are poor, who are below the poverty line, who are those who live relatively well. That makes no sense to BiH, so there's really no reason to worry. All 17.6% in BiH are poor people. We live well, too. And that has no one's right to say, so most 80% live well in BiH but you took the 2,200 limit rate, I don't know how many 15 marks in a year, so, and you took on the other side of the household spending. Very cleverly, the entire statistics and strategy of the document are based on household consumption and not on the total GDP per individual and so on in BiH. So this rate is not taken at such a GDP per capita but is taken simply, is taken up by household consumption which certainly cloudes the image and does not give objective indicators. So it's a very controversial criterion by which the poverty line in BiH is being built, it's very controversial and can be deceived. Which means it should be reconsidered and there's a lot of controversy. So, what methodology, as 680,000 were found simply poor in BiH, it says, is below the poverty line, 109,000 people, which is also controversial, and the biggest VAT coup will be on the unpoverned. Who gets the middle layer and the rich ones? Well, people, we make this for the poor. And in that context, I absolutely mean, what do we do? And it's really a picture, take page 3 of the consumption ratio and the poor, the poor, so I don't think there's anything to worry about, because the poor spend very little as you can see from this diaram here, so why all these Parliament sessions? So they won't affect anything in terms of disturbances, look at that scheme, that chart. The rich in this country are dominant and the poor are, how many? 15-17%. What are we doing? Which means absolutely the wrong assumption is the premise of the relationship between the poor and the poor. When he looks at it, let him turn around here in Sarajevo, the richest in the canton in 146 BiH, and he will see a high degree of poverty without simply talking about other regions in BiH. So, I think I'm on the right track when I criticize the criteria, the methodology by which we came up with a relationship between who's poor and who's not poor. Still, when you say here, that I'm right on page 6 says, as a result of the disorderly social protection system. More than 300,000 poor people are not covered by any form of social protection and are said to be in parentheses, mostly in RS. We're talking about 300,000 that aren't covered by any form of social protection, here we say we have only 109 thousand people below the poverty line. So where do people have that? Please, above the line, it doesn't matter. Okay, but 109,000 that are above the line, border lines of poverty, okay. But here it says, here's now 300,000 poor people who aren't covered by any form of social protection. Well, aren't these 300 in these 109? Well, it should be. Please, ma'am, I know what I'm saying, but simply these numbers are at least controversial. In that previous diagram, he says too. BiH, stands out about 5% of the GDP on the social protection system, considering the fact that the GDP is underrated. So that's a subjective grade. In line with the average transition countries. Don't people, I mean, you can't take the gray economy as a relevant economic indicator, you can't take it. How can you say from the cider or simply estimate that the GDP is underrated. Who's estimating that? How is the GDP underestimated? In what way is it underestimated? How much is it underrated? Itd. So I repeat again once again, so the material gives a lot of information and that's good and that's what encourages it. In the end, this last page of this Puerto Poin..(?) The presentations, the next activities, all four of these dots per me, don't go their course or their dynamics. Whether governments in BiH have agreed to fund a programme to threaten the effects of price hikes in basic living foods, and then says the needs of the Management Board of Direct Taxation Board are realised by a public campaign to introduce VAT that will aim to prevent, it is already in total stalemate, simply not going its course. Under three, it is necessary to train the Administration for indirect taxation to ensure within the legal time limit the VAT return is necessary, so today it is not able to do so. Whether it will be able for the next three months, remains appropriate for the issue, and ultimately, further research and analysis needs to be carried out, showing that I am on track, a survey in the household budget that will further facilitate the more precise determination of the level of entity measures to mitigate the consequences of VAT on target groups of poor in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19434	I thank Dr. Avdić. Gligorić answered the word. Have Dr. Lagumdžija prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19435	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I am joining you and wish you a successful presidency and good co-operation with Mr. Raguž and Džaferović in the College as it has been so far. 147 Since we have heard at least this part of the discussion that is quite analytical and I support them in that direction, and I would suggest only two things because I expect, here is Professor Lagumdžija, that he will give his analysis which is likely to be more comprehensive and in this direction, saving time and yours and mine, I would only like to highlight two things, because we have already absorbed the number of poor and financial resources that are being allocated and that is 5.5 KM, and that is a lot of debateable and perhaps controversial when it comes to the number of poor but it is not disputed by the other side, and that is how much financial resources are foreseen. It would be better if it were more but this second part, it is a problem which, of course, means a lot. Given that you have listed on page 24 of the proposal measures, expectations of unwarranted price increases by producers and traders, and that on page 30 of the proposal for measures, you have provided for activities of the Directorate for indirect taxation, to realise that you have listed a public campaign for the introduction of VAT which will aim to prevent the unjust rise in prices of producers and traders, which in my view means, in fact, only an appeal. And that is why I would say that the proposal should certainly consider the measure of state interventionism. It's the only way you can solve that problem. Who in the free, free market will listen to the Directorates for indirect taxation of the Council of Ministers or entity governments when they have the right to freely form their prices. And you can't influence it with any campaigns like you said. I have long advocated this parliament for state interventionism only in segments allowed by the country in transition and not as we talked about at the previous point, it has led to problems like this that we have in BiH that BiH is only one sale on the market of other countries. And the other thing, in your activities, you also state that it is necessary to conclude a loan to support budgetary entity governments because there is a jurisdiction, a mitigation of the effects of the prices of basic life supplies due to the introduction of VAT. I personally find that unnecessary. If we're going to give 5 marks to someone with all the problems you've been talking about, and at the same time you're in charge of the World Bank and you're going to give it away, now you're going to have to mathematically calculate with interest as much as that means, that's unnecessary. It's a duplication of costs, and that's why I suggest, in order to be able to solve this issue again, and I'm incorrigible because I think the zero rate should have remained, it's easier to adopt amendments and additions to the VAT Act, return zero rates and count this, which is why I would not be adequately financed by the poor, which is actually no help to them. Here, this is my contribution to this debate so that we can solve in two ways with state interventionism and, of course, we can solve it either this way to change and supplement and return a zero rate, and so we would have two steps and join many EU countries that also have two rates and not just one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19436	I thank my colleague Gligorić. The word is Dr. Lagumdžija. My kolega Križanović, I wrote, there's no problem, it can be quite anything if Dr Lagumdžija says so. Comrade Križanović, here you go. It's not me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19437	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to start with this, I want to join my colleagues who said that today's presented material from a methodological point of view is very good quality, and I think we can very easily agree on that. However, given the state of the country as we come to statistical data, that this area has been arranged for us by the colourful entities and even by the cantons, of course we can take all of this data with a large reserve. That is why I would not like to comment on these data, but I would very briefly refer to the proposal for concrete or future activities. You see, in these 12 next activities that stand in this material, four of these activities therefore, 1/3 of the activity refers to the adjustment, the various corrections made by the amendment of the Foreign Trade Act, customs, etc. Therefore, to amortise the impact of VAT on products that have not been taxed so far. You see, first of all, point 5 says that the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH will consider adopting a decision to reduce the customs rate on paper imports, whether this one, for magazines, brochures, books, etc. So, then, that entity governments will provide greater subsidies to agricultural production, in order to mitigate the effects of growth due to the introduction of VAT on natural and artificial fertilisers, etc. Well then, social aid users, low pension pension pensioners, for medicines, and then cantonal and municipal governments will consider the programme, subsidize to pay VAT for the purchase of pre-school textbooks, etc. Wouldn't it be better, simply instead of these complicated shops, to admit that we made a mistake introducing the VAT law and returning this, and to make a correction to the law to free the VAT of certain categories that are listed here and here? We are now going to make a whole legislative one, to say the crowd at all levels of power to get to this. It is also irrational at one of these points of the next activity, it says, it is necessary for governments in BiH. Look out, the BiH government is 14, as far as I could count. That she is now, each in debt to the World Bank during this year to prepare certain funds as a shock absorber for this VAT. That's why the BiH government can't do it. She collects VAT. It has a guaranteed return of that loan and distribution of all inflows from a single account, etc. So, what I'm saying is that there's still a lot of superficial and unserious work here. It is necessary for the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Directorate to analyse a public campaign to introduce a VAT which will aim to prevent the unfair rise in prices of producers and traders. I think it's high time to start talking about VAT in BiH at all, because it's a very complex job and I think we're not going to be prepared for the use of this VAT. So, once again, I think it would be good instead of the many of these measures to find a more rational way for this solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19438	I thank my colleague Križanović. Dr. Lagumdžija has a word. 149
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19439	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry the Prime Minister isn't here, not just otherwise, but in this room today. I'm sorry that he probably went to continue planning the action, to get to know his country so that we'd like it more, and to recommend through the newspapers everything we can't hear here. Those who said that the programs were kept in the drawer, including the prime minister, I think they are now, in fact, I doubted it. I must admit I doubted that they kept programs in the drawer. But now that I've seen this program, I realize I've made a mistake. It's perfectly logical that this was stored in a drawer. It's perfectly logical that this was stored in the drawer and only it doesn't make sense that this came out of the drawer. Because this shows all the misery and what we're talking about today. My colleagues were saying, I'm not going to do it again, but in these programs for the sake of the public, for all of us who have read this, so we want to condense ourselves a little bit, when someone asks us from family, from friends, what are you talking about today? We should tell them that we had a program that recommended to us summed up in a few recommendations, to spend less, to read less, to eat less, which could be healthy but not for those people who don't have anything quality to eat anyway. We can find out that it says here that we're eating more rice, because it's going to be cheap, that we're going to eat less bread that will collect 17%, although we're told it won't pick up when we've adopted that VAT here. I even remember a Beriz being attacked by that story as a demagogue because he talks about how in the Sarajevo class people buy bread a day older because he's cheaper, and then they're accused of people talking about it. The truth in this circulation is that it will collect not exactly 17%, but because something will come back, 11%. In this programme, we also asked to conclude that we should be determined to deal with the beneficiaries of bread because there was a whole lab here, how many secret profits there were in the bread and that this could be effectively done by all 17 governments probably and coordinatedally prevented. This programme also suggests that fewer children are born. For those who are in... that process, it can no longer be stopped but for those who think about it this, they still have time. Also, it can be realized here that there is more to be shaved, that less beards should be around us because let's say the razors will be cheap. It also suggests that we don't get sick, spend less electricity, because it will collect 7%. The only thing here doesn't say is that we're expected to be saved by an ozone hole over the winter because of more warming, and then we're going to have to get less heat. We don't need this program, we need to take it, take who goes alone, who, who takes a child to tell him to go to one of the supermarkets a little bit bigger, once you go on a periodical basis, buy a little more stuff, get that bill that you end up getting, and look at it, and you'll see from that account much better than in this social program what it will collect and what it will cost. In each of the accounts that must be legally issued, it writes with each item written in 010 or 20 now. It says and there you can see exactly what's 0 it's going to collect 17 or 11% when it's all coming back. You can see, here's what I've been doing in preparation for this session, so I've seen if it's cheese and milk that I need to eat more now because it's going to pick up after the new year, peppers and tomatoes should eat a little more now because they're just going to pick up a little bit more compared to now. But since New Year's, I've been recommending that everyone shave more because the razor will collect 3% at all levels. 150 I think this really shows that we still need to have another four months. We know that the Indirect Taxation Administration is struggling, fighting who the lions are somehow able to manage to start from January 1st with the introduction of the VAT, the VAT for which the foreign technical assistants are those who give us, said that it can be introduced if there is only one rate, because it is easier to count and that with a lot of effort by January 1st they will be able to do so, there's one easy-to-account to introduce. So we don't have much time. I don't believe any of these social programs that say it can be realized, if the conclusion is that we conclude that all of these governments that we have from the entities of Brcko, the district, the entities, the canton, etc. are doing in coordination. Now unfortunately, everything we warned about proved true because it would be more precise. Look, there's this program called Ljilo, and I apologize for looking at this one of yours just now that you showed me, and I didn't have it with me, just because I got this one, again because I realized that we had an inoculated version that we also got in July, and it's a good thing that we were given again to see that nothing was initiated since July, but in June, we got what it said was classified. Well, in that classified one, all this could be settled for $43 million, and in this one that's no longer confidential, 50 million can be handled. So the degree of confidentiality is, that confidentiality is actually when you do a little better analysis, I'm just looking at it, but those 7 million differences in what they live almost at the poverty line, because now that this confidentiality has a little bit scattered, it's realized that the problem isn't just the officially 600,000 poor, but also those, let's say potentially poor, about 200 thousand. And when you divide it, multiply it, put it together, separate it, assuming that this 50 million just doesn't eat anything from the administration of this social program, be careful, under that assumption, that this comes directly to the end-users who need it, it's from an opportunity of 4 marks per month to those people who are recognised as poor. I think this data, it's good that, methodologically, it's good to talk about these 200,000 almost poor people, but I think this VAT is going to get a lot bigger than 200,000 people pushed to be closer to poverty. And that doesn't include this. I think I'm going to make an illustration of this, according to that confidential programme, in the Federation, it took 24 in RS about 19 million, because of these almost poor in the Federation, this Federation is much more almost poor, so the difference is now that in this innovative programme about 30 million goes to the Federation, about 40 for RS. Illustrations work, here in Sarajevo we have four clinical centres today in Mostar, Banja Luka, Tuzla and Sarajevo. Sarajevo, Sarajevo canton clinical centre and pensioners are not interested in this they are not sick, so the Pensioner's Party is having a debate on this. Only health care in the Sarajevo Canton, only the clinical center and health homes by the year in Budget must plan 20 million marks more than they have now for what they have not been taxed for and will be taxed next year because of the nature of the new system, which I agree with which fellow Potočnik is whether, which should be introduced. So no one slows down the VAT to be needed, and only in the Sarajevo canton. In the Sarajevo canton alone, health care will be burdened by as many additional funds as it is said that complete poverty in RS will be resolved. So, I think some numbers there just don't need to be a great scientist to realize that this just can't be done, it won't hold. Now, there are calculations different, I don't want to return that calculation that we had within our expert one team that was working a year ago, when we talked about VAT, when we realized that these different forms per household were going to mean about 450 marks more per household. I'm not saying yes, and by the rich household, but also by the poor. But unfortunately in this country a very small number of 151 wealthy people will because of that who is going to be, but in this country, the problem is that the middle class is getting poorer and actually the largest number of people will be burdened with an additional about 40 marks per our calculations. The Chamber of Commerce has now come out when it has introduced the communals into play, and when health care is introduced into the game, that this figure is much larger. I don't get into whether it's 400 or 500 or 600, but that doesn't solve these terms, 4 stamps per just poor man per month. So that's just not the answer. To one job, the number of poor people reportedly due to the previous agenda, which did not include some, statistics say that in one opening job, 264 unemployed compete on average. It's statistics, I didn't make it up. The number of unemployed in the last six months, while this was taken off classifiedly, has increased by some 5,000 unemployed, monthly only in the Federation, back to Federation statistics. So that the absolute number of living people, if the new 5,000 are unemployed, will certainly fall into the category of socially endangered people. I, it doesn't have to mean say Sejo, it's right, it's possible, I don't know which, I haven't met any who said, I'm unemployed but that doesn't mean I'm threatened. But it could be with a bigger field tour, they can be found. In any case, I think these, what's encouraging in this, and I think, one conclusion I suggest to the Council of Ministers, I don't propose that we discuss it at all, and I suggest that they write it down, is that, they have people who write it down and I suggest that, here, it's said that 150 million will collect more than an opportunity for VAT. They assured us there'd be more, but here's to 150. If it's 150 million if it's going to get more, I don't know why it's only 50 for social programs, if it's 150. And in the end, the proposal that if that's the case, if that's the case, there's no reason to be in charge and ask the World Bank in October, so they don't give it to us, and then we say the World Bank is guilty. If 150 million will gather more than now, then you can do something that is always being made in these countries, one buffer fund, a transitional fund that will allow when in January, to remind you just what we talked about, in January when VAT starts to collect, everyone will focus on collecting the extra one. And by the time the first tax return begins, it'll be a time that's just the way it is. And since it won't, this mechanism will be all focused on collecting, then it will lead to a difficult situation because of the lack of trade and any other capital, healthy companies. Be careful, healthy, the sick will certainly kneel without it. But it'll put healthy companies in a difficult situation. And so, I propose to the Council of Ministers to come up with a special project in the next few months, I don't propose that we vote on it because nothing is binding if they don't understand this, to come up with a proposal because they already exist, they say, they themselves have calculated, to prepare appropriate mechanisms for companies that pay and already have a conditional payment, and they are not given back what needs to be returned, to bridge it properly. It's all over the place. Eh, and finally, a proposal for a conclusion. I'd like to make this clear. Since we adopted in this home a new year ago, that VAT bill that had some kind of zero. I do not suggest that zero be introduced now but only to introduce an appropriate member who will then put what we put as zero to be transferred to the category behind Article 24. The VAT law, which is to exempt from VAT, is what we adopted here a new year ago and what is being brought into line with the House of Peoples down. So that's one thing. 152 And, second thing, that from those amendments that also got the green light here, the Excise Act, the excise duty, the taxation of luxury goods, that's on the question, because they're going to ask me immediately, and when it's released, when it's zero, how are we going to calm it down? Well, we'll settle with that excise tax code, in which we've given the special amendments that we've adopted here, there are preparations in the commission, all there is, to further tax the luxury goods according to what we've concluded here. In other words, I'll give you a written chairman, I suggest that the House be declared. It is up to the Council of Ministers to come up with a law amending and supplementing the VAT Act and amending and supplementing the Excise Act, following an emergency procedure, Article 105, in accordance with the versions of the basic laws adopted in this House at the end of 2004, by which they are exempt from the tax on zero rate brackets, certain goods and services and introducing additional excise duties on luxury goods. And then, these 17 governments go after 15, as many as there are, coordinate, and if all social programs are made with 50 million, just fine, those governments will certainly be celebrated in October next year, and we will all be fine, including ourselves who will then be the opposition in a regulated country. So I could, Mr. Chairman, break the farce of social programs, too big and just go back, do something that could still be done four months before the zonal hole was celebrated.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19440	I thank Dr. Lagumdžija. Please give me a written conclusion. The word was further answered by Mrs. Majkić. Let Mr. Berz Belkić prepare himself. Mrs. Majkić, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19441	There's a formal dilemma about this material. What's he supposed to do? It's not quite a question, even though it looks like that on the first wave. The basic dilemma is that it is possible for this parliament to make a decision, whether positive or negative, today on August 30th, and the entity governments have already adopted the programme. So they're, they can already work on it, the way it is. The proposal for measures to mitigate the effects of price growth was adopted by the Co-ordination Committee on Economic Development and European Integration, which is by the Fiscal Council in BiH. Finally, the proposal for a measure is presented to the Management Board of the BiH Direct Taxation Board. Indeed, it is unclear, in this country, whether Parliament's decision, the state parliament, is no longer important to anyone. How can any institution adopt or adopt an opinion on an act which has not previously passed the verification of this Parliament? I really miss that answer because I wonder why this decision by Parliament today should serve? The other thing I'm trying to say is, it's about the shortcomings this program has. The basic principle of each social programme should be calculated the monetary minimum needed to survive an individual or family. So how much money does 153 need in this country for one individual or one four-member family to survive. We do not have this information in this document called the Action Proposal. Also, it would be good if this proposal contained what is the minimum that should be calculated one pension, some social supplement, a social protection supplement or a children's allowance. We haven't written a word about it. I expected that, given that there is no law at the state level regulating the social protection programme of citizens in BiH, that BiH as a serious country that is a signator of many international acts bound to a minimum level of social and health care should have one such document to show that it cares and that its citizens do not come to a worse position than they do today. I therefore expected the Council of Ministers to submit a proposal for a platform to mitigate the result of an increase in the prices of basic life supplies following the introduction of the VAT and that entity governments would carry out the operationalisation of that platform. Today we see we don't have any. Another important thing that citizens of this country expect to present to them is whether the introduction of VAT will affect the reduction of tax burdens on the economy and citizens through a reduction of taxes on consumption or wages? In that segment, this material didn't say a word. And, next, how will the introduction of VAT affect the control of the gray economy and the fight against crime? I think these issues were required to be contained in the proposal for a measure that presupposes to be a basic document based on which entity ministries will do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19442	I thank my colleague, Majkić. The word has a colleague, Beriz Belkić. Who's next to the word?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19443	To tell you the truth, I've been in a great deal of trouble about whether or not a man talks about these things at all. We all had, what we had to say, said when we adopted this law on value added tax and there were many controversys etc. Now, however, there are practically a few facts that we must face. So now it's completely, I guess, finally clear that the problem didn't produce the fact that VAT was being introduced, but that the problem created a model. So, a single rate model, not differentiated. And now we have these consequences of price hikes, and that should be clear, not only of life supplies but of a wide variety, that I don't now list, the medications of textbooks, media, etc. Who adopted it? He's adopted Parliament. So, by adopting these solutions, the BiH Parliament no matter how anyone acted then and how we came to the law, so we have practically now a responsibility to the citizens to find solutions to the consequences that only now have agreed to be produced. So this is not about the government's response to the demagogy of MPs. This is about joint responsibility and processing and proposing and the one who passed the law. I have a very comfortable position, so I can say I've been giving amendments, the BiH Party was against, we're this, we're what we are. But here's the fact that now we're here, where we are. What can we do in a situation where 154 are increasingly common reactions to both unions and chambers and the public. The public is slowly turning the turkey and people are slowly resisting this, fully aware and insecure whether they will be protected or not and fully aware, this is what I wanted to say, falling into more serious problems. People feel what's coming to them and we slowly have public reactions through and unions and chambers, etc. The real question is practically that we face the truth, what can we today practically do to counter the answer, or to tell the citizens? Shall we say that we have established a good basis for not social programs, I don't know, so we're not talking about social programs, I guess, we're just talking about measures now. And by measures for the consequences of these things. So, are we going to tell the citizens, we've established a good basis? Guys, I think that would be really not enough. Shall we say we'll recommend it to entities and cantons, etc. So we have to face the fact that our options are reduced. If the Council of Ministers can practically, I have mostly called to ask the following, whether the Council of Ministers can guarantee and come out publicly and take responsibility for the citizens of BiH that these measures, that they will provide funds for these measures, provide support for all these governments, etc. and protect the citizens and implement the program. If he can do that, the story makes sense. If he can't, Mr. Hurtić, this story really doesn't make sense, and we've been cheated. So, what's left of us, an alternative to going the other way, to fix what can be fixed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19444	I'd like to thank Koelgi Belkić. The word is Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19445	I thank the chairman, the honourable members of the College, my fellow Members and my fellow Members, and I have listened carefully to this debate as I have read with attention the materials that have come to us at this point in the agenda and what my colleague Belkić mentioned earlier, I think it is particularly important to resolve the proposal for measures to mitigate the consequences of price increases due to the introduction of VAT and social programmes. So that someone wouldn't have the illusion that what we got from the Council of Ministers was accidentally social programs. It has nothing to do with each other. Secondly, I want to remind you of those who are economists, maybe remind those who are not, it's not a waste of hearing. With the introduction of VAT or the Law on indirect taxation, we passed one part, a very important part of the tax policy, only from the area of indirect taxation to the state level, direct taxes are not regulated by that law, and all other policies, therefore, from the field of indirect taxation policy, have carried out the transfer of jurisdiction, and all policies that were dependent on indirect taxation have been left where they were. Among other things, social policy and regulation of pensions and pensions, regulation of education, regulation of culture at all, let's say when it comes to publishing, that we don't talk, for example. on some other very important segments, a story advocated by this Council of Ministers and this Parliament and entity government and the formatting of society, etc. I only mention this for one reason why every story about regulation, i.e. the link between indirect taxes and, for example, social problems, lose meaning, reminds us of what is happening now with farmers living here in front of Parliament or going to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and the Ministry of Agriculture is in entity governments. Or what we had yesterday, say, when customs policy was for example. at the state level and its implementation in entities. I'm only saying this about the absurdity of one system, or the imperfection of 155 of one system, and if anyone here in this room has the illusion that anything in the field of social issues will be solved by indirect taxation in the way that, or by the incomes of indirect taxes, in the way that we did it by law, and that everything remains the same, it has illusions. We need to change something here, or possibly transfer those responsibilities from those areas that depended on income on indirect taxes to the same level as we did with indirect taxes. Until then, it's an empty story. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to remind you that the area of indirect taxation as part of the tax policy is an integral part of fiscal policy and that countries that move to an indirect system or, which already have experience of switching to the VAT system in the area of indirect taxation, have experienced two types of shocks. First, a transition shock which is short-term, due to an increase in or a change in the price system, for which a programme should be done, or a proposal for measures to mitigate the consequences of this transition shock, therefore, short-term. And, secondly, in the medium-term or long-term programme, what we call social programmes that will be part of a development policy which is the essence of fiscal policy, or what should be fiscal policy. And now I want to remind you of some very important things that are in the context of our story. Where are our regulatory pensions, or pensions, from which incomes, for example, finance pensions and pensions? Do we even have a population policy? I want to remind you here it was said that we do not even know, perhaps even with what number of people we count in BiH, but I want to remind you, regardless of all these reserves and demographic character of such a story and, of course, politically, that in BiH there is an increase in the number of people supported, and that year by year, we have a larger number of sustained populations, which I want to point out in the context of this story because the key to solving the problem of the supported population is precisely in the area of fiscal policy and especially in the area of indirect taxation. Or, let's say, what I mentioned was a population policy, if we have one at all, we do. Do we want to stimulate, say, natality, so we'll release children's food, children's clothing, etc. either temporarily or temporarily exempt from paying taxes or lower to a zero rate or something else. What kind of statistics we have, projections, etc.? Or let's say, shall we continue to advocate, for example, the realization of the passions of the information society, whether, fellow Lagumdžija, the information of society or the information society, if for example, We count on not having a book or having more expensive books. Or, let's say, when we talk about books, I belong in a circle like my colleague Duraković, Lagumdžija and others here, who published books, or textbooks that said they were freed, because they were tax-paying textbooks. Since that is no longer in this law, we are stimulating an import book, or importing a book. Or, imagine another absurd, let's say among these measures that are proposed here amongst others there's a reduction in the customs burden on paper, books and so forth. Imagine the absurdity of such measures, that first we reduce customs burdens that are even the lowest of us, here we heard earlier in approach, and the background knows what is, or, let's say, what about home books and domestic producers and book writers? Are we putting them in an unequal position? Or, for example, The proposal for measures on subsidisation, I can't remember now but it seems to me that it was just such a formulation, so let's just say it says this in the proposal for measures to mitigate the consequences of the increase in the price of life supplies, and at the same time here full mouths we all talk about our European path to our future membership in the WTO, etc. So we're jumping ourselves into contradiction. 156 What am I saying? The VAT as part of fiscal policy, which consists of tax and public spending, and what is financed from VAT, should be a key development policy in a country like BiH. And it doesn't just have a fiscal character, it also has a developmental character. It shall, without regulatory or jurisdiction at the same level, only constitute a space for the absence of responsibility. The indirect taxes are in the jurisdiction of the state level, i.e. in the state jurisdiction and all that is financed or, which is the consumption of income from indirect taxes, are at some other or lower levels of government. As long as social policy and everything that depends directly or financed directly from income from indirect taxes are not at the same level as indirect taxes, we will talk about these stories. And now I'm just going to go back to what's coming to us and it's a transitional shock. Therefore, what will be effected in the short term during the first months of administration, i.e. switching to VAT. Consider, for example, a proposal for measures that, in a complete, almost complete vocabulary, says that entity governments, etc. What does that mean is that entity governments? Entities governments can always say indirect taxes are at the state level and the state can always say social issues and everything else is on the entity level. So the result of all of this is not going to be zero but minus. And I would like to warn this Parliament and the Council of Ministers that we must welcome the first three or six months of VAT implementation more readily. So, transition shock. From what means, how? I'm not sure this country needs borrowing. And I'll say it right now, because it's the easiest way to reach the means and put out the fires. But in order for us to put out the fire, I'll tell you that out of income, expected revenue from indirect taxation, we can put out the fire, it's just a question of how. I am not sure that this proposal is a response to the transition shock, and at least the answer to what some MPs here called the social programme. This, indeed, is not a social programme, we can talk about social programmes in a different way, and certainly the effects of such social programmes can only be when social issues at the state level are regulated as well as where social programmes are financed, and this is the system of most of the indirect taxation system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19446	I thank the doctor, Azra. The word is Ljilja Milićevć. Have Sead Palavrić prepare.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19447	Thank you. You see, um, I'm not going to repeat and enter a story that we've been talking about for a very long time on the Finance and Budget Commission and here in this home. I think the situation is very serious, that it's not the time to say who's right, who's wrong, and I'm really sorry that it's not here, there are no people who have attended all of the Commission's meetings here today with us, then we've looked at them more often than family members for a time, because this, half of this material actually looks like a stenogram of the Finance Commission and the budget, which is the previous session, which is before... the passing of the law. So, what's done is done and I feel like someone in that former civil protection system was practicing and shouting fire, fire, and firemen were deaf, not people listened. Now, the firefighters are simulating that fire, and now whether we're going to stay deaf or we're going to read this, and I've read this first material and this inoculated version of how it's written and I think it really is this one, that it's proved that everything that we've pointed out is, that it's just like that, that the prices we've simulated, assumed, that there's 157 of them, the problems that are like this and better ever, and it's a good thing that it's been understood and written and someone signed it and sent us here. And it's clear to me that it actually means that this is the maximum that people could do, that they tried and did it. I can recognize a lot of things here from environments that were done the same way when a single VAT rate was introduced, to recommend here that it be done in BiH, in countries in the environment, when they faced the problem that will happen to us tomorrow here. What do you say? To say that this is an initial step in my opinion and that the only thing that it means to comfort me is that I have knowledge that still at the level of entity governments is working on this and that a lot of things have been done. We are shown only one aspect here, and that aspect is short and clear, so what's going to happen is not this situation. This is actually this, here they are, so it's proposed that the consequences are mitigated, not that we are left without the poor, that Bogdo is like that, but that these poor are not even poorer. So, here's to implementing everything from here, we're going to have none of the poor, less poor or less hungry. We'll just have him on the same level, barefoot, hungry and poor. So this is actually just so it doesn't get worse for those who are so bad.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19448	So Vl... for the maintenance of poverty
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19449	Plus, uh, the ones that are going to be fighting for them, they're going to get in the line of the poor. So I'm looking at this as one aspect and that's how this document was done, and that's 200 famous marks a year. That's it. So, the one who doesn't, how much more will they praise him. Here's the thing. So it's properly done and recorded and that's how it is. What's the matter with you? I'd love to answer because there's a big difference and I don't see how we're gonna get out of this. So our estimate is that 50 million effects are that negative of what we've still imposed on the fairies of people so much praise that it's analized, that they're as poor as they've been. And it's said that the International Monetary Fund has an estimate that it's half the amount. In order for the last page of the inaugurated document to be said and here, during the lecture, it was said that an agreement was reached with the International Monetary Fund. Did we meet them at 25 million, or did we meet at 50, which is very important, or where, if they only accept 25, will we find these 24 that praise us? And, one thing I'm asking you to erase, any conclusions, no, this is very ugly and unserious. Last proposal for activity, it is necessary to train the Directorate for indirect taxation to ensure the return of VAT within the legal period. Well, we can't doubt in advance that people who do business, or they'll work, they won't respect the law. We call upon the obligor to register according to the law, the penalties are severe and we in advance suspect that they will be able to do something that, you see, the importance of a single rate, is so important a legal deadline for the return of funds. On it rests, it's the second leg of this VAT to be able to walk. And this measure is prescribed, very funny, I think it should be deleted. If necessary, it may be necessary to amend the legal item, so as to say that the Administration is going to pay interest if it doesn't pay people back the tax, it means if it's late in that. Now, that's a way to encourage a man who works at that job, to do his job, or to lose his job because he's not back in taxes and his business isn't working as well as it should. For now, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19450	I thank Koelgika Milićević, especially for this clarification, that this is power, not for fighting poverty, but for maintaining poverty at the same level. We realized we'd be fighting poverty, not maintaining poverty in the next 100 years. But that's the way it is, Sead Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19451	Thank you. And it seems to me that after all, Ljilja didn't say that we would maintain poverty, or at least that's not a fact because compared to 2002, at least by about 2% we reduced poverty. I'm sorry that most of my predecessors didn't even try to discuss here in a way that we have to do what we have to do, but he was trying to show that something can't be done and that VAT, the way it is, leads to this country's collapse. And unfortunately, that's what people say who only a few years ago when they were in power, advocated VAT on two entities, not a single VAT on state level. Individuals go so far as to forget that today's budgets at all levels couldn't work, and that means we couldn't pay for health care or the police, or education, if we didn't have the support of the World Bank budgets. So, that support already exists in the proposal for measures, as far as I can read, it is said that only part of this support should be given for the VAT collection mitigation programme. Why 50 million? Because we're conditioned, if I can think, if it allows me a professorial level. As long as we have the need to have support in the budget, then we will be conditioned to set aside for social care as many as those who support the budgets say. The moment we're more effective with tax collection, even indirect taxes, so we don't need that support, then we'll certainly be able to isolate more. I really want to express my satisfaction with the fact that the Directorate for indirect taxation for the first 6 months of this year, from the moment the indirect taxes went to a single account, still picked up 90 million KM more than last year, for the same period last year, i.e. it exceeded even 10-12% and last year's realisation and plan for this year. So it's a bright future for me. The discussions were also in the direction, there are no poor, now VAT produces poverty. Unfortunately, they're wrong. I wish they were right. In 2004, we wouldn't be in a position to single out 690 million KM from all levels of budgets for social assistance, the most vulnerable part of the population that is viewed in a 17.8% figure that I believe and want to be smaller. We also act as if VAT, the introduction of VAT, brings a tax that never existed, as if VAT should not be replaced by sales taxes and as if there in the laws on sales taxes we have not written that their application ceases at the moment of VAT introduction. So, the turbulences that will be caused when we talk about VAT are only those that are viewed in the fact that certain foods or objects of taxation such as fuel, such as meat, which now have a 20% rate, some with 10% will collect the problem of introducing taxes on those who are now tax-free. So it's the subject of our discussion and our problem. I think what Ljilja said, the current level of poverty, when we single out 690 million in BiH for the poor, so 990 KM annually or 83 Km per month for 159 poor, will contribute that this additional social programme can be this big right now, as in the proposal for measures. So let's not ignore the fact that there are already separations for social categories. Unfortunately, they are not enough and our task should be to ensure that we include more people with this, to enable more resources for social protection and to ensure that what Professor Hadžiahmtović was talking about. So as many real people as possible come true in one place. In this light, I am also looking at the point of the 4th proposal of the next activity. When said, entity pension funds are required to form a list of pensioners below 200 KM for 2005. First of all, I believe that the Brcko District must be included here, then that 200 KM is not the same in the Federation, is not the same in the RS and is not the same in the Brcko District. We here need to find a ratio that will say whether it is the lowest pension increased by 20% in the Federation, also in the RS, and also in the Brcko District, until the moment we agree that it is more useful for us that the Pension Fund, the Ministry of Social Welfare and the laws that provide a unique, equal separation, ensure that people have the same pensions throughout BiH, but not just equal pensions, but equal separations, because I say again, a pension of 200 marks in the Federation does not have the same purchasing power as a pension of 200 marks in the RS or Brcko District. And, I think, in the proposal for measures of future activities, it is necessary to include besides beneficiaries of social assistance and pensioners, people who have compensation, receive compensation for unemployment. I also think that today we should not say that, on the proposal of the next activities until the Council of Ministers has put into the proposal the next activities of Professor Hadžiahmetović's suggestion and the Ventually this, which I am talking about, and that we should continue to look for solutions so that by the new year we have had an answer to as many questions as possible that require the introduction of VAT, which we all know inevitably and which, where luck has happened before, so that the turbulence has ended, that we are now going to a normal course like all normal countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19452	I thank my colleague Palavrć. The word has a gentleman, and Mrs Milićević's replica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19453	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And to you, in part, and to the lady, because I don't want to get things out of context. I am merely this proposal of measures, the document, which I have brought down, in fact, what it refers to, the consequence, the mitigation of the consequences resulting from the introduction of VAT into basic life supplies. Because here, we're at least the kind of country where if you get out of context, so you say 200 marks solve a social case in a year, strange things happen. So why did I say the number of the poor wouldn't, with this actually means you won't get anybody rich but we won't feed anyone else, but let's not get hungry more than he was. I mean, that's it. I have to comment, I didn't want to talk about what our sector is best reformed social and this, with this additional document that we have along with this, I didn't want to talk about it. But I have to comment, we can't say it's not the same 200 marks here and there. I mean, if we're going to be banal, you see 200 marks in my Plant and 200 marks in Sarajevo, there are two worlds. I mean, it's not just about, it's about geography, so the bigger seats, so you see the price of living in the city, the city has its price, I mean, every item, it all stands. We're all going around. What's the point of the story? The large, most developed 160 industrial countries, are you actually aware of where the level of one country's development is seen? It's actually in his social policy. It is the most perfect in the most developed countries and that have gone far and wide in all of this. Our problem is that we wouldn't be dabbling around and hooking up with some million people, moving from account to account, all from hollow to blank, is in fact that we don't open up, so we don't have development, we don't have new jobs, we don't have people to make money to get out of that category of socially endangered. As long as it is that, while BiH and all of us together, we are no longer turned to it, it is normal that we cannot reduce any number except, Bog forgive me, when someone dies, the number of those who are poor and that. So our point, apart from this socially normal, social measures and everything that goes along with this activity, still needs to be basic, our accent needs to be developed, to complete this privatisation or to turn some new list into new investments. It's our future, and it's just going to bring this better social policy with it, so we're going to cut these people down, and we're going to allocate more funds for these. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19454	Thank you, Col. Milićević. Dr. Živković, is it a replica? Replica Dr. Živković. Please, if we can refrain from the replicas, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19455	Here's a quick one. I was in a hurry to say an incorrect quote, not a replica. Namely, I am deeply convinced that the poor will be even poorer. And I'll explain why I think so. For the simple reason that VAT with a unique rate will also hit all people linearly no matter how rich, and the return of that money will depend on the efficiency of our system and everything else. Right now, our system isn't efficient enough to make that money return adequate. It's what we talked about here, the transition hole, so in a certain period these poor people will be even poorer, and that's clear to everyone in this country. Whether this system is ever going to be good, whether it's going to be consistent with Western European countries, it's up to us to do it, but right now it's safe in the next year and that's why we're talking about it all day. The poor will be even poorer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19456	Thank you, Dr. Živković. Word has Mr. Bešlagić. Let Mr. Moranjkić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19457	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I will be a very wasteful man. I am one of the few who acted in office and in the county of Canton, and here I am today in the state parliament. One thing I know from local self-government, what takes state or canton or Federation or entity RS into money, very hard to get back to local level. It's about what we have here, in fact, brought the Single Tax Act, that is, to an additional value that is collected at the state level, and in the measures proposed, it is said that the measures had to be distributed at the level of entities, cantons and municipalities. Why am I saying that, 161? I speak for one simple reason that here from today's debates we've had, faced the fact that VAT goes, that it's like that, etc. I think we're fooling ourselves in one thing. We're supposed to have a follow-up, application and realisation regulation today, and I'd say tax on extra value. I'm afraid, and I think that should be one of the conclusions, you can estimate that, in fact, the indirect tax administration is obliged not to the new year, but rather to adopt those laws, so that a simulation of the collection and distribution of VAT could be carried out. Because otherwise, all the things that we've been talking about today are going to be far more critical because I'm telling you that there's going to be what she's been talking about, I think Dr. Hadžiavdić, that in the relationship of shock, the first shock, we're going to experience that it can't be realized because they're going to transfer responsibility to each other, that they're in charge of this, and they're not for that, etc. I think we have to do it here, but on the other hand, when we talked about the value-added tax, there was a debate that the value-added tax would prevent the black market. If it is known that today the value of the black market is estimated to be 6 billion, then I am optimistic, but I'm afraid, if we don't buy the accompanying documentation, or the accompanying regulation, it won't have any effect either. So I would ask, if these representatives from the Council of Ministers had this in mind, that the documentation, at least what needs to be done by the Directorate for Direct Taxation, be brought in as soon as possible so that here could be a simulation of these materials.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19458	I thank my colleague Bešlagić. He's an optimist, not to suspect holes and shocks different. Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19459	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try for a while. I'm going to start from a simple finding that I could pull from reading this material and folding it into one sentence or one thought. He says so. The VAT will impoverish this population with 50 million, but that's why this people will be rich by 154 million. The simple bill is take it from that camera 50 and what's the charge? It is placed simply under the supposed signs, a solution. What my esteemed colleague Potočnik said, he said the system and I'll say the technique to divide those 50 and we solved the job and what to worry about this country and someone that this people will live worse, be poor, etc. But it's not really because there are hidden phenomena here. I don't mean deliberately hidden, but simply not processed, not taken enough data, etc. which they give if they were to be taken, a completely different picture. And I don't particularly care as much as I worry about segments hitting on that healthy part of today's agriculture and economy that life is in this country. In this analysis, for sure, and because of that title that he says, the increase in the prices of basic life supplies has been dropped, but in my view he should not be released because he will retroactively reflect on poverty and on the impact on the standard, because if we ride on a horse that we slowly sow from behind, I don't see that this horse will then get us out of this state like this, and we said, here's the picture we hear that what it is, black, the truth that moves forward, can't be said, but it's not what we want and what this people need and what this people expect from both this government and this country. 162 I would particularly like to return memories of the beginning of the struggle under alleged signs, for VAT in these benches when we were fighting on two fronts in a dilemma whether unique, whether differential rate, which at the time some were trying to explain that the introduction of a single rate is sufficient and measures that will guarantee that there will be no impact on the standard and on the accumulation and impact on the little healthy economy that still draws a little bit in this country. However, it was clear to all of us that there was going to be a gathering, it came, that in this material I did not see a few things, and that is good I think colleague Avdić said, that we started from or that we pointed out here what it is, because the dilemma here is who is poor in this country, if not poor and what they measured. If that's what those 10 products were, then may Bog help us, then we missed it completely, we just combed the target, and far away about the center where we should have guessed. So, in my opinion, if we don't work out this material and we don't cover this problem wider, I think that our conclusions here and our opinions are absurd, because they're essentially not reflecting anywhere, we're simply wasting our time today while we're discussing it. So for me, it's once again worrying about that impact on the healthy part of the economy. I pray to the gentleman who has done this material, that this Parliament, in the form of one of my proposals, shall in particular process and reflect on that part and reflect that part on poverty and on the impact on the standard of the total people in this country. And here, too, from the materials I don't see either deadlines or carriers very clean and they're somewhere in the mall, and the mechanisms that are proposed, I don't think they're enough, and they're not going to provide an adequate solution to what we expect, or that's what the people expect from someone who runs this. If we don't, I can just say it quietly for myself, Bog help us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19460	I would like to thank my colleague, Moranjkić. The replica, Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19461	It's not really a replica, just an addition to what Mr. Moranjkić said, in three minutes. Mr. Moranjkić is absolutely right because the experience of transition countries is that by introducing VAT and over 30 businesses has been closed. In fact, it appears that most of the unhealthy but unfortunately healthy businesses can fail. The government would have to co-operate with banks to prepare a programme to protect healthy businesses. And it's very simple to do. I want to tell the government that suggestion. In fact, healthy companies will get credit from banks because they are healthy and the state should subsidise interest, in order to withstand this liquidity impact, because it can really happen that these 50 projected millions are not 50 million but that it would socially say unsettled or threatened need and more after the decommissioning of such economic systems. I know reliable data that in Slovenia over 30% of companies closed after the introduction of VAT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19462	Thank you, fellow Potočnik. In the end, I have Mr. Izet Hadžić reported, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19463	Well, here's this one, I hope there aren't a lot of people in here yet. I would suggest that the Direct Taxation Board campaign goes first to parliamentary means benches, for two reasons. One thing that I will say freely about VAT demagogues is to cover up real problems in this country and another, when political representatives convince themselves, there will be no problem in showing the health of VAT measures of this country, as well as their effects. If we agreed, and I didn't see anyone contradicting it, that VAT will collect more than 5.5 marks per capita per month, and that we will collect around 220 million, and that it participates in this mass with 54 million to say the population that is on the border or below the poverty line, then the state will provide some 150 million that can be deployed according to certain objectives, so if it needs to be in the social programme. I want to point out that right now a zero rate that we don't all pay, means 80% can pay and provide funds for progress, at least to cover that poverty line or improve living standards for the poor. Or, first of all, it's not at all black, which is a unique rate. It would be black if we didn't protect these 680,000 that are being led in the border of the poor. It would be then, I mean, if we said it would be very bad if we didn't do it. The second thing, if that's 5.5 marks then believe that a much bigger blow has already been made by the refuelling of these pairs, we pay a lot more who spends 15 liters, already a month means more payments than 5.5 than what VAT and we already run a VAT campaign at a unique rate, etc. So that's why I said we're clouding the right picture. For me, as an MP, I want to tell you, it's a problem primarily that this country collects very little public revenue. We are visiting the Foreign Affairs Commission of neighbouring Croatia, getting information that the neighbouring country, with approximately the same number of inhabitants, is collecting about $30 billion in public revenue. Our country is killing about 3.5 billion dollars, total public revenue. This is what I'm saying for the reason we have to deal with, billions of dollars, 30 billion dollars. I'm officially speaking and we can take data from the Internet, etc. to be clear and I mean, it's not a problem, we can take Slovenia, etc. I would like to say that for you MPs it is much more important to deal seriously with the question of collecting public revenues and ensuring the development and progress of the state and social measures, but now that we are trying on one small thing of 5.5 marks of collection in basic life supplies, we are already creating a blow to VAT, etc. And we expect this measure to say, some of it's progress and some of it's results. Here, I've reached out to that goal, so primarily if it's said in the campaign, then first to the parliamentary benches campaign and first that we really get a good idea here if that's the case, then we can finish everything else and we'll probably help this campaign, because we're expecting positive results from the VAT. There's so much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19464	I thank my colleagues, Hadžić. I don't have any more reports. Is anyone else answering for the discussion? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the discussion, ladies and gentlemen. I have an announcement from the Council of Ministers, Mr Hurtić, that he would like to answer some questions, but just a little, Mr Hurtić. I wish I hadn't realized this debate that we're two hours away, Parliament and the Council of Ministers to convince each other. This was the one that, yes, I just want to help, to have one constitutional proposal. So it was an extremely tolerated debate of the MPs. I don't think any answers will change the attitude, so I'm asking you, maybe we shouldn't stay on this point, because the answers can produce answers on the other side, and I think we've concluded the debate. If you don't have a particular need to interpret something that distorted the image of what the Council and the chairman presented here, I ask you not to, if you have no reason not to allow it, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19465	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is my great pleasure to speak again today in front of you. I didn't mean to open up any discussions. There were some concrete questions that I think I would answer and I didn't intend to do it, because I think today was a very good discussion and that it was very, very good proposals. In any case, it is very good that the Parliamentary Assembly is speaking again on this subject, because this topic is important and it is very good that this matter is being updated because, as you can see from the materials that we have prepared, there is still a lot of work to be done to introduce the VAT on 1 January, etc. with a unique rate, one adequate social programme welcomed. Because, as you know, the unique VAT rate only gives all the positive effects if there is therefore an adequate social programme to protect the poor in such a situation. I think that's exactly what Mr. Potočnik was talking about, is that it's necessary to work on this system, or to exploit every possibility, to create a system that can ensure that money gets to people right now. Because, I think, basically, we have all this problem here. It is not so much a problem of money, whether there will be money, but of course whether there is an adequate social protection system that will allow that money to travel through different levels of government and come to one who is really poor, so that he does not feel the consequences of any collection. I think it is very good to answer the question of Mrs Milićević in the sense that there are differences between the AMF programme which has also worked on a programme to mitigate the consequences of both our programme and our government. We have received technical assistance from the AMF, but we did not agree with much of their findings because, as I said, they predicted this lower amount, somewhere around 25 million, while we think that amount should be somewhere around 65 million. On the other hand, I would like to point out that we and the AMF have received agreement that in the entity budgets of the following year there should be a social programme following the introduction of the VAT but that this does not mean that 25 million, as the AMF thinks, is the agreement on the programme that we presented to you here today and based on these figures. 165 Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, Professor Hadžiahmetović, I apologize, highlighted one very important issue like everyone else, and this is the transition period. And it is, yes, true, so somewhere in the range of 3 to 6 months, it can be expected that if we talk about prices, the price is going to rise in some way, and then they could be reduced, and in a large case, it is also this possibility that, in fact, the need for the companies to go to the banks will have to, you know, be in debt because they won't be liquid, etc. But let's not compromise on that. I just want to explain that when we talk about the World Bank loan. The World Bank loan will certainly be taken by BiH. In this case, we're talking about a loan that would bridge, so I'm stressing, over the first three months, a lack of funds based on VAT that we won't get for three months. So, you can't expect to have funds per VAT right now, but you're going to have to find some funds, spare funds to reroute and the social protection programme has to go right away and in this period we're planning to use the World Bank funds that BiH should definitely take to bridge until the World Bank revenues come from VAT. But according to the latest information from the entity budgets, and the indirect tax administration, we probably won't even have to use one such asset because this year's revenues are growing by let's say, a surprising basis, so it can be expected that there will be an excess of income that may possibly be calculated into budgets, from these funds to take that part. There were more notes here that it is necessary to do one program for companies, because it is true that companies will be hit, i.e. they will be struck by liquidity, as Mr. Potočnik, Mr. Lagumdžija and Mr. Moranjkić said. I think it's justifiable concern, but if we take the fact that it's in the preparation of VAT, that employers or the Foreign Chamber of Commerce strongly support the introduction of VAT at a unique rate, then we can expect that at this point it may not be such a big problem and that they expect much greater benefits from VAT and that's what I might say in some conclusion, which is that VAT will bring them an improvement in the business climate, a reduction in the gray economy, that it will provide them with lower tax burdens and that will only affect greater investment and only this once again affects the growth of the private sector, i.e., employment growth, which I think is also the best social programme for this country that VAT should be affected. It is very important that we keep Milićević, however, that we think it is very important to train the Directorate for indirect taxation to return VAT in legal time because the experiences of other countries have said that the administrations for indirect taxation of these countries did not return VAT within the legal deadlines and we have said and kept this because it has a direct impact on any price increase. So we even think that it will affect companies most to increase prices because in a short period they will have to borrow from banks and this one, the credit debt will be transferred to prices. Mr Gligorić has also made interesting observations. It points to thinking within us working on these programs. It speaks of a system of state intervention which, although I am a representative of a liberal economy, cannot be without some logic, especially if we fail to find a suitable mechanism through a public campaign, to give employers some kind of pressure not to increase prices. I would like to say that, for example, for these reasons, France, which is a market economy country, has frozen bread prices when VAT is introduced, etc. 166 And in the end, here are the same guided discussions about the level of poverty that I really have to say a few words about and how poverty is measured. You see, if we had calculated the level of poverty in BiH, we had to conduct two surveys. A survey of the standard of living... a survey of household budgets. Ten thousand families were interviewed. So, a large number of people and based on it, it lasted a year. Based on this, an analysis of six months of poverty has been carried out. I know that in practice there is subjective and objective poverty. Subjective poverty is what poverty is in terms of whether or not a person thinks is poor, but we must deal with objective poverty. So in order to achieve one calculation of poverty in one country, it takes you a year and a half to survey and analyze. And that's exactly what we did and why we trained the state institutions. And, finally, it's not the number of Zlatko Hurtić or IPP, it's not the figure of the Council of Minsitarians, it's the number of statistical institutions. So they're ousting that number and we're using that number accordingly, such a single line of poverty is calculated and published according to the world methodology. Therefore, according to the methodology with the technical assistance of other experts from outside. Secondly, how poverty is calculated. It is true that in BiH it is calculated solely on the basis of consumption. But it is also true that there is a methodology that Mr. Avdić refers to that calculates poverty based on income. We think at one point we're going to have to move to a phase where poverty, let's say, will count on the income axis, as England, Germany and some other countries do, but you can see there's a big difference between these two countries. So these are countries with a regulated economy, where the grey economy is very small, while the grey economy in BiH makes up 50% according to the analysis that has been published and that we can deliver to you. It is very difficult on the basis of incomes in a country such as BiH to count poverty, because we ourselves know that people at the employment bureau are applying to each other not because they are unemployed, but because they are working in a gray economy and they want to be on the Bureau for health care. And secondly, we know that a large number of employers pay far less wages than real, so under the table. And if they took such a methodology in such a single country with a large grey economy, they would absolutely not come up with real data, and that is why we have to stick to this methodology that applies in all developing countries, and that is the methodology that is based on consumption. And finally, I don't know if I owe anyone any answers, yeah. We have a situation here that often says that there will be a cost of luxury goods. That's true, it's possible, but we want to point out one very important thing here. Yeah, and we wrote that in this paper. The price of a particular product is not affected by the dominant tax height. It affects the elasticity of the demand we were talking about here. So, luxury goods may be cheap, but above all, I mean because of demand. But the fact, let's say for other goods that concern the poor, which are important, which is rice, that's meat, that's fuel, you'll also have a lower tax rate than the current one, because they are now burdened with a 20% sales tax while VAT tax will be charged 17%. So, according to that same logic, it should come to the cheap of these goods. However, we think that they will not come precisely because of this elasticity of demand instrument and we want to say that even if you have introduced a second rate, I think there will be a collection because traders and employers will take advantage of the opportunity to make a profit, 167 elasticity of demand is the one that affects height and I want to give an example of Croatia that had a single rate and that had a price increase of only 3 months. Then prices returned, but after six years Croatia introduced a double rate and imagine what? The prices aren't back. Prices remain as they were, and I think that will happen if you decide to choose another variant, absolutely in BiH. Okay, and in conclusion, I think that the best social programme for BiH is therefore employment growth, and that is exactly what the interrest needs to do because I repeat, improve the business climate, reduce the grey economy. Farmers are also the ones who have supported the single VAT rate because they are being tortured by it, so they do not suffer so much that there will be a collection of certain things because they see greater benefits from reducing the grey economy and ultimately, the end of higher investment and growth in unemployment, because unemployment is the main cause of poverty in BiH. Here, thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19466	I thank my colleague Hurtić. Dr. Avdić reported on the replica. I'd be begging my colleagues really if it's possible to avoid replicas. So I also prayed to my colleague Hurgić, God Bog the Council of Ministers, and he himself has an answer to all the questions, we would not have discussed these problems today, and therefore I think that this Parliament and the Council of Ministers should be at the same wavelength. We are not two sides to this problem, but together we are trying to find a solution. I would ask my colleague Avdić for brief and other colleagues to refrain even if they feel the ptoreb might, so that this does not turn into questions and answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19467	That's right, Mr. Chairman, thank you for this intervention. I don't think it was necessary to elaborate every MP's exposure because immediately, you simply have consequences and replicas behind it. Col. Hurtić knows well, the basic premise, which is statistical indicators are not irrevocably accurate and mathematically accurate data, under one. Two, the pattern on which this was made was 3,000 families in BiH at 3.5 million apartments. Under the table, the grey economy is taken as a relevant economic indicator and in this context much that has simply been missed in the assessment of poverty in BiH. Well, people, do you really want to convince someone in this country that we only have 17.5% of the poor. Take the criteria you want. So you didn't convince me, you can't even convince me. We already have this degree of poverty in Germany and other highly developed countries of the world. So absolutely unacceptable data that absolutely introduces and cloudes objective facts in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19468	I thank Dr. Avdić. We've closed the debate. Is there? There's no need. So the debate is closed. Let's get to the bottom of this. 168 ladies and gentlemen, help me absorb this point the way we conducted the debate. I propose here in agreement with the kolegij that this information, we say that Parliament has received knowledge and that we adopt this conclusion of the Parliamentary Commission which says that, which House recommends to the entity governments that the proposal for measures to mitigate the consequences of the increase in the prices of basic life supplies as a result of the introduction of VAT is used as a starting basis for the development of social programmes. This is one Benigan conclusion, but I think it can be accepted, by saying that Mr. Potočnik and Dr. Lagumdžija are not in a relationship with this conclusion that I think we can also accept because they are not analizing each other. And I think we could successfully conclude this point. Do you agree? Please nice, so individually you'll be loud, in that sense I think that, I ask you these are the conclusions of the College to be, these are the only conclusions that exist. Dr. Živković, the debate and the proposal for a conclusion have been concluded. What conclusion? No, this is not my conclusion, this is the Commission's conclusion. No, this is the conclusion of the Parliamentary Commission, which I am now quoting to adopt and to make clear on the conclusions of Doctor Lagumdžija and Potočnik, because these are the only conclusions we have received, and that the attitude is that we have received this information and had a broad debate on it. I would like to make it clear about this first, so the conclusion that we have received knowledge and recommend to the entity governments what the Commission recommends, that they take this as a starting point in the development of social programmes. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, a total of 22, 14 Federations, 8 from RS voted. We also have most of the entity. I find this conclusion adopted. We vote next to the conclusions we get. Mr Potočnik's conclusion that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's Representative Council of Ministers is asking the Council of Ministers to bring and explain the system of money distribution for the mitigation of the socially endangered in BiH and to set the deadline at the end of September 2005. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Please, we vote. Therefore, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is proposing to the Council of Ministers, asking the Council of Ministers to bring and explain the system of money distribution for the mitigation of the socially endangered in BiH. I think that's the point of this. If that money doesn't come to those we discussed, an empty story today. So, please prepare for the vote. Vote now. So, for a total of 23, 18 from the Federation, 5 from the RS. I find this conclusion adopted. We also have a good conclusion from Dr. Lagumdžija. I'll read it. It is up to the Council of Ministers to attend the next meeting, since the next session tomorrow seems to me, that by the next session, it will come up with the law amending and supplementing 169 of the Law on VAT and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises, following an emergency procedure, Article 105, in accordance with the versions of the basic laws adopted in this House at the end of 2004, by which certain goods and services, in brackets, basic life supplies, medicines, books, newspapers, learning from taxes, in parentheses, zero rates, and introducing additional excise duties on luxury goods. You heard the conclusion. Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19469	Why do I say tomorrow? First because we need to, and... so, basically, introduce the zero rate we adopted here, and there's this. So this exists very clearly, adopted by this home. So, if you want to, you can do it tomorrow. There's no reason not to because we've already adopted it. At the very least, I have these two texts, these laws on amendments and additions to the law, done and if the Council of Ministers has any problems, I'd be happy to give them them.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19470	We thank you for further clarification. I think we're clear. Prepare to vote on this conclusion. Vote now. Total vote, no vote. So, nine from the Federation, five from the RS, there's no ordinary majority. So there's no need for an entity statement. You can get a listing, I'm sorry, this conclusion didn't go through and that's when we exhausted the debate and the adoption of the conclusions. About this part of the agenda, we from the College have one proposal. I'm asking you to take a half hour break, no more. Half an hour to use the MPs to eat fast, we can do it, and get going, we have a duty to one College and the other. So we start at half past three with a follow-up. But please don't let us call you back. At half past three, we'll continue the session. Moving to the 11th point of the agenda, that's Ad.11. [[PAUZA]] Information on an initiative to consider the possibility of introducing a passive registration system in BiH and co-operation with the CIPS Directorate of the Project The Election Commission submitted this information on 10 June 2005, on the fourth page of the Information, the Electoral Commission presented proposals for conclusions. If the House supports this Electoral Commission initiative, then if this House would support this initiative, the Election Commission has proposed certain conclusions. The Electoral Commission subsequently submitted additions to this material or proposed to the House to adopt concrete conclusions if the initiative was adopted. You've also got that piece of material at this point. Since we have representatives of the Electoral Commission here, I welcome them and if they appreciate the need to inform this Parliament of something new, here's a chance. Is there a need? There is. There isn't. Thank you. 170 Ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening a debate on the 11th item of the agenda. There's no argument. I'm closing the debate. Here's Miloš Jovanović. Comrade Jovanović, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19471	Well, I don't know, I haven't been to the last session, but the fact is that the voters' lists have really made a problem for both voters and voters' committees and election committees at all levels, so I think this initiative on introducing a passive voter registration system in BiH by the Election Commission is good. And I would immediately say something about the proposal for this conclusion, my one suggestion for this conclusion, where it is said, is the working group on amending the BiH Election Law on the basis of the proposed technical solution to establish a proposal for appropriate legal solutions that will regulate the system of passive registration of voters in BiH. And, I would add, if the Commission doesn't mind, means to refer it to a parliamentary procedure, in order for Parliament to adopt it by an urgent procedure, is it, I think, what if the working group, which is the role of the working group? So the task force is going to prepare something, but obviously it means if there's a need for a proper passive registration, there's probably a change for the Electoral Law. So, first we have to do it, I agree that the task force is preparing it and normally means that this Parliament should adopt it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19472	Because it's legal solutions and it can't be different. I think this is a good conclusion. The legislative solution is passed by Parliament and the working group should prepare it, a way to bring it into parliamentary procedure. And that when it comes to the agenda, we can, I can look for article 105, 104, that's the thing when it's done, but I think this is a good conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19473	I'm going to say, I think it's going to be a complete conclusion, that's to say, my opinion, and now I'd suggest this, I'd suggest that we vote on the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19474	I thank my colleague Jovanović. For his word, the co-chairman, Mr. Džaferović, came forward.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19475	My koleginica and colleagues, Mr. Chairman, I would first of all like to express my gratitude, and here is the Electoral Commission and the Working Group for making changes and additions to the BiH Election Law in one of these approaches to addressing issues in the BiH electoral system. I think it is good that some of the things that will be subject to the amendment and addition of the Election Law in the future and in this way before 171 officially, in the form of the law, come to the BiH Parliament, be tested here, by the House of Representatives and in some way supported by the people working on this project, so that they can continue to realise. I think the time has come for us to think very seriously in BiH about the system of passive voter registration or automatic voter registration in this way as proposed by this document. I believe that both the Working Group and the Election Commission and we, when we adopt legal solutions, will install enough mechanisms to avoid any possible inaccuracies and possible abuses. For my part, I would particularly like to draw attention to the issue of the registration of voters who have residence and who live abroad, so BiH citizens, I would like to ask, therefore, that this is especially the case, because both the registration and the voting system of these people has been so complicated so far that they have refused to express themselves in the elections of their will and to vote. And here I also support the information and the proposal of these conclusions that came from the Electoral Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19476	I thank my colleague Džaferović. kolega Jahić, then Moranjkić answers the word. I didn't think we'd leave much time, but here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19477	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I would like to say, so to remind all of us here that there is a working group that is searching your electoral law and which is tasked with proposing amendments to the electoral law and one segment of these changes that we are, which we include, is actually moving on passive instead of active registration, which doesn't mean that all other activities, therefore some technical changes and some fundamental, political changes to the Electoral Law. So, these changes are under way and we are going to be in this procedure that Mr Miloš Jovanović spoke of, so it will be in parliamentary procedure, the way he spoke. What we need today, therefore, is that there is one political training, that Parliament is in order to go into passive registration, in order to prepare the KIPS project from the Election Commission as soon as possible, so we can make a political decision on whether to make a passive registration but should therefore be prepared in a technical way, and to a significant extent, it will require certain financial resources, so that the Council of Ministers can also be directed to provide certain financial resources in order for this process to be realised. Surely, then, we have been on the task force discussing all these moments and there is also a vote abroad and I do not know the vote of returnees etc. the municipality of pre-war life. And I hope we can handle it. So that's what we need today, not to go further into the controversy, so we're going to give support to move on to passive voter registration, and all the details will be found in this House through law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19478	I thank my colleague Jahić. Comrade Moranjkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19479	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I fully support the Electoral Commission initiative and I think fellow MPs are well aware that I was the initiator, a year ago to implement this in the work, noting the shortcomings of the previous and can be said by the electorate registration system so far that they have been making the whole dissatisfaction and the problem between the citizens and me and my club we are standing at the point that this should be urgently supported and we support Mr Jovanović's proposal that this goes according to an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19480	Thank you, is there anyone else to discuss? There isn't. Mr. Belkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19481	I'm sorry, we're just saying our position, and we're kind of in favour of this approach. However, we should also face the fact that in this way we are slowly and definitely giving up so to say, encouraging the return of people etc. And in this way we enable them to practically, or even encourage them to give up their return in some way. I think you know that. So there are no more reasons to resist and list the population, etc. So, definitely where who's who and the thing is done.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19482	I thank my colleague, Belkić. Here's a replica of his colleague Džaferović and Jahić. I ask you to let us avoid replicas if possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19483	No, it's not a replica, it's just an explanation. So, I don't think we're going to be in a position to bring about a passive voter registration system with the voter's seat and the voter's determination to vote towards the place of residence, so to the place of residence. And, of course, it will be one of the very important issues when it is decided here in Parliament on a passive voter registration system. It will therefore have to be possible for all people to vote for municipalities and for places where they lived in '91, according to the census. So, those two things I don't get involved, I'm just talking about simplifying the voters' registration system. We kind of need some kind of control. So this is going to be some sort of survey on how long the CIPS project came, what about our voter lists. I mean, we'll see what we have here in the end and we'll make the right decisions. I thank Mr. Belkić for mentioning this question. It's a very, very important question and in no way do I think we're not going to be in a position to make moves that would in any way affect our return. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19484	Thank you. Is there a need for fellow Jahić, you? No, thank you. Is there anyone else? There isn't. I'm closing the debate, ladies and gentlemen, and I suggest we end this point the next way. To adopt therefore, we accepted the initiative and to adopt the following 173 conclusions which it proposed, therefore, the Election Commission, which we in the Secretariat did not reform but compared to some in our line of logic. So the first conclusion is to accept the BiH Election Commission's initiative to consider the possibility of introducing a passive voter registration system in BiH. Two, it is up to the BiH Council of Ministers to establish an appropriate technical solution and access to the design of an idea project of a passive registration system through the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and the CIP project implementation Directorate in co-operation with the BiH Election Commission. Under three, a working group is tasked with amending the BiH Election Law, to establish on the basis of the proposed technical solution a proposal for appropriate legal solutions that will regulate a passive voter registration system in BiH. And, under four, the Council of Ministers of BiH is obliged to support further implementation of the project and provide the necessary financial resources for the implementation of the passive registration system after setting out a list of project requirements and designing an idea project. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think there's any need to open a discussion about these conclusions. That's exactly what we were talking about. I invite you to make your statement on these conclusions. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So I figure we're out of 30 docks, 30 voted for, no abstentions, no objection. So we unanimously accepted these conclusions and it seems to me that we have concluded this point of the agenda. A colleague, Jovanović, asked us to make a statement about the procedure, but I think that once we have a proposal for a legal solution that we should then discuss the procedure, in which way Parliament will conclude all the legal projects. I think my colleague Jovanović agrees. Thank you very much. That concludes the 11th point of the agenda. I thank my colleagues from the Election Commission and I think this is one of the few good examples of correct co-operation between Parliament and the commissions that account for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Moving to agenda 12, Add.12. Information from the Council of Ministers on the issue of passports and license plates As you know at the 62nd session, we had this item of the agenda, which during which we obliged the Council of Ministers to provide information on this issue within 7 days. Information was delivered to Dom on 26 July 2005. You received information at the beginning of the 63rd session. Yesterday we received an update on the information that was shared with you both this morning. 174 I'm running an escrow. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. The only thing we can conclude is knowledge. So there's no voting on information. We received information and thus concluded the 12th item of the agenda. I thank Minister Halilović for his presence on this point because this is the intelligence of the Ministry whose head he is. The thirteenth point of the agenda is, Ad.13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Convention on tripartite consultations in order to promote the implementation of international standards 1976. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Please plead. Vote, who's in favor of having this ratification done? Vote now. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that we unanimously agreed to ratify the Convention on tripartite consultations in order to promote implementation of international standards in '76. We move to the 13th point of the agenda, which is Ad.14. The proposal for a conclusion by Mr Huskić, poslanik Adem Huskić, when setting the agenda for the 63rd session, suggested to the House that it adopt the conclusion of the following content. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare information on the situation in the economy by next session with a positive focus on the state of agricultural production in BiH. The proposal for this conclusion is included in the agenda. I am opening a debate on this proposal for a conclusion. Who's calling? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate and I'm asking you to make a positive statement on this good conclusion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19485	That's unreal. How are we going to make a conclusion that isn't real?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19486	For the next session, of course it doesn't apply to this session tomorrow, for the next session. Here's the correction, and I agree, which will take place in this next month, half next month. Who is it to adopt this conclusion with the suggestion of counterpart Zorić? 175
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19487	I suggest you write for the 65th session.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-27-0.u19488	For the 65th session. Here's to the 65th session. Do we agree? Who is it for this correction by Vink Zorić to adopt this conclusion? Prepare to vote. Vote now. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude that, with 25 votes in favour and one abstention, we have accepted this conclusion from our colleague Huskić. I thank you for your patience, for your tolerateable debate, and I hope that we will continue to hold on to this atmosphere. I hereby conclude, therefore, the work of the 63rd session, with the fact that I would like to inform the members of the narrow college that we will hold a tight college, here in five minutes at my office and in 15 minutes an extended college. So, at half past four, an extended college to prepare tomorrow's session. I ask my colleagues to have an understanding and a little patience. So, members of the General College have a small break, to peel a 15-minute break. Session completed at 3:15 p.m.
