ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16441	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 52nd session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I realize that today's House of Representatives session of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has a quorum for full work and decision-making. At any moment, paristine and new colleagues and colleagues at the House session and we can continue to work, with the finding that we have a quorum. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the draft agenda you received in the call for a session, I would like to inform you that, on the proposal of the competent committees and with the agreement of the College, two points have been removed and this is the Commission's report on gender equality on visits to the BiH correctional offices, in which the sentence of the prison is being raised by women and a special report by the Ombudsman for human rights of BiH on the complaints of parties related to the work of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the co-operation of the BiH Council of Ministers with the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH. Namely, the Commission for the achievement of gender equality for the session scheduled for 15 February has provided for a review of the proposal to supplement the conclusions in the Commission Report, which were presented at our last session in the Report debate, but the Commission's meeting was not held due to the lack of quorum. As regards the special report by the Ombudsman, the Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum, it informed us that, in the process of considering this report, it asked the Council of Ministers to show about the special report. Since the Council of Ministers has not arrived, the Commission has asked for a discussion on the special report to be postponed for the next meeting of the House, because they believe that the special report would be worth considering only when the Council of Ministers shows it. The House College respected these Commission proposals, and we excluded these points from today's 52nd session agenda. As for the addition of the agenda proposal, we, meanwhile, have received three legislative proposals in the procedure for the request to be considered in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, and one draft law with an emergency request under Rule 105. Rules of Procedure. We have provided you with these materials in good time, and 2 according to the Rules of Procedure, we are obliged to place them in the first next session, so this is about the following suggestions. 1. The proposal for a law on the Public TV System of BiH is a procedure under article 104 and today's declaration of this home, related to the procedure. 2. Proposal for a law on foreign affairs services, 3. A proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the use and use of part of the property, which BiH received under the Agreement on Sucession. These three laws shall be subject to the procedure laid down in Article 104. The Rules of Procedure and today’s Declaration of the House concerning this procedure and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement under an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. We agreed this agenda and what I read to you this morning at the College, and I hope so far divided into benches as an innovative agenda in relation to the agenda, which was presented in the call, is the decision of the College and the decision of the Extended College of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, so much for the introduction when it comes to the agenda and I am now opening a debate on the agenda of today's session. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16442	Dear colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen of the chairman, I sent a letter to you a dozen days ago as the chairman of the House in which I asked you to withdraw from the procedure of the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of Members of the Parliamentary Assembly. In fact, this law is not only contrary to what the state of the country is, but it is also contrary to the resolution we adopted on 8th of last year, at the 43rd session, which precisely puts the moratorium on all new privileges, which would eventually be introduced, which are clearly introduced in this law. You answered my letter, Mr. Chairman, I thank you, but I am asking you to put it on the agenda today, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Agenda under Rule 3. Conclusion/decision of the procedure of the Law on Rights and responsibilities of Members of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't think there's any need to explain this in particular, because if we don't, that law will be dragged on committees all the time representing a stain on the cheek of this entire Parliament, that's one thing. And, Mr. Chairman, I would also like to ask you to make a statement on item 12 on the agenda. Namely, information from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of Parliament's conclusions on amendments and additions to the Excise Act. 3 We, at that last session in 2004, adopted that excise law, in the manner in which it was adopted, concluded that by January 31st, the Council of Ministers had the obligation to amend and supplement the Excise Act, which would be in the function of protecting domestic production and since 31st of January this was not done, we in the parliamentary procedure as a group of MPs, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, have sent three laws, which is a practical obligation of the Parliamentary Assembly, which unfortunately has not been carried out by the Council of Ministers, so I would like to put an end to the agenda that the Council of Ministers will inform us why this is not fulfilled until 31.1. or to see what to do to speed up the realization of that conclusion. Whether it will be according to the laws that we have proposed or to others, it is less important. Mr. Chairman, so point three, point 12, I will also provide you with the exact name of these two points in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16443	I would ask you to deliver it to me in writing, so I can formulate your proposals exactly as you asked. Mr. Jozo Križanović. Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16444	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I sent the College an initiative on the 14th of this month, on the basis of Articles 8 and 15. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives in front of the SDP's Club of Representatives. So, I have instructed the initiative to form a committee or commission at the Parliamentary Assembly to determine the text of BiH's state anthem. I would remind you that at the 11th session of the House of Representatives, it was almost two years ago, 9.4.2003, I referred a parliamentary question to the Council of Ministers which voted. Will the Council of Ministers, if they will and when they will initiate the procedure in which our anthem would receive words? Of course, I never got an answer to that question, so I repeated that question after 14 months, so 9.6 last year at the 38th session, and of course I didn't get any answers again. I would not like to explain to you the importance of the text of the anthem, which is rightly expected in our public, because it would be a more complete state feature of BiH. That is why, as the SDP Representatives Club of BiH, we have addressed this initiative to the House of Representatives and again I say, in accordance with Articles 8 and 15, we are asking that this initiative be put on the agenda today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16445	I thank Mr. Joza Križanović. Mr. Milorad Živković is next registered for discussion. Here you go. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16446	No matter how someone in this country has called the state of the Council of Ministers whether it's a crisis or something else, obviously what my predecessors have said and the debate that was in the College that MPs are given the opportunity to propose as many laws and various initiatives as possible, because apparently, the honor of the exceptions that have come today, on this other side there are no ones who do, they need to do their job. That it also confirms the fact that I will again request that the agenda item be placed today by the Ministry of Defence on the carried out inspection of the barracks in Han Pijesk and the possible involvement of military personnel in the covert of war crimes indictees for several reasons. One of the reasons was that we put that agenda item in the last session just because the Ministry of Defence didn't deliver the chairman's notice that they failed to complete that information, until the soul, I later found the paper where it was delivered that day, so when we had a session, the Ministry of Defence delivered the paper where they failed to complete all that information, but that they would submit written information to this Parliament by 14.2. However, the fact is, we have all been present here that OHR has received information, that all the media has received information, and here MPs have no such information in front of them again. That's the only reason I'm looking again for that agenda point to somehow commit to the Ministry of Defense, which, and here, finely in the minutes of the last session, is bound and said. The overall investigation is still ongoing and is intended by the Ministry of Defence to complete it within this deadline, meaning until 14.2. and to provide information in writing after the completion of the overall investigation to the House of Representatives. Please, if we can't get information this way, only to ask the media or the High Representative for that information to come to us. It's an unimaginable situation for everyone before this House to get that information. I suggest that it be item 14. In that information that we have on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16447	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Mrs. Seada Palavrić, have Mr. Nikola Špirić prepare.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16448	I thank and welcome all those present and I want to say first of all that I am not surprised, but I am disappointed that today I do not see the Council of Ministers again, nor the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board, which should explain why the conclusion of this home to offer amendments to the excise legislation by 31 January o.g. He's not respected. And not only is he not respected, but it's supposed to be an additional deadline, it's granted. However, the additional deadline is not respected, and I would like to inform you that we have decided on the Constitutional and Legal Committee that even the High Representative and the Management Board of the Implementation Council, the Direct Taxation Board and the Council of Ministers have been instructed by letters with a warning why these laws do not appear, why we are in a situation where individual parties or individual representatives or individual groups of MPs take over the role of Council of 5 ministers. So we are now in a position to have laws offered before us, and we do not even have the opinion of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority. We know that part of them is under official duty, part of them has been elected, but I personally believe that this relationship between the Management Board of the Board of Directors and the Council of Ministers is absolutely inadmissible when it comes to the system laws in BiH. We have passed the Excise Act and voted on the condition that we are offered adequate amendments and completed by January 31st. And, really, I don't know what to do anymore. What we as a Parliament can do to make these people take their jobs seriously when it comes to proposing legislation. With regard to Mr Lagumdžija's proposal, and the Law on the Rights and Obligations of Representatives, which he calls the Law on Privileges, I would like to say what is often happening here, that Mr Lagumdžija does so while the media are present, neglecting the fact that this law is not at all on the agenda of today's session, and he would have to be. Mr. Lagumdžija would have to be on the agenda, because every thing in this country needs to be arranged and because this House of Representatives has on two occasions reached a conclusion to pass a law on the obligations and rights of MPs. Not about the wages. This time it's about the obligations and rights of MPs, who should be professionals and do this job with full capacity, not with one hand or with some finger of one hand. Whoever wants to do this job should do it seriously without politicizing, and how much concern is expressed on your part for the poor, for the regulation of this system, is the fact that the Council of Ministers in which you were in December 2002, after losing the elections, has made a decision to install the minister's position supplement into the ministers' salaries, so that ministers, who were then ministers, if there will be no ministers for at least a year to receive that increased salary. I ask you once to be correct and not to constantly create an opportunity to hunt in a dim. I personally as an agent who does this work with all my being and only do this work, respect the Law on Conflict of Interest, I want a law in which to write clearly what my obligations are, which are my rights and I want to have a law at BiH level in which to say how much the president's salary is, how many parliamentarys are, how much is the prime minister, how much is everyone in this country. You look at the employees of BiH institutions, the highest-quality personnel leaving these institutions, because they find better paid jobs everywhere in this country, starting with public enterprises, banks and all those who are under this Parliament, people leaving and finding their place, and we remain even poorer, MPs remain without support and in vain that man has fantastic ideas, which wants to make amendments, which wants to offer the law, we are not all lawyers, and that we are, we can't do this 57 as many jobs as we need to do in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and boast that the status of attractive representatives comes down to entity status, and at the same time talk about strengthening the state, I don't think there't have a definition. So, please, when you're discussing, either this law on obligations or rights before the Administrative Commission, respect what MPs are doing, and when you talk about the agenda of this session, you're talking about what's on the agenda, not what's not. Thank you. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16449	Thank you. I have to give Mr. Lagumdji's line to the Rules of Procedure. If you agree, then Mrs Ljiljana Milićević, but you have a word in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16450	Dear colleagues, about what Mr. Lagumdžija and Mrs. Palavrić said, I just want to remind you, it's about the excise law on which the question is raised. It happened exactly as they said. We had a letter from the Council of Ministers and the Directorate for Direct Taxation at the last session. Mr. Lagumdžija was not at the session, where they begged that additional deadline to carry out consultations to agree. I feel the need to tell you that we were, therefore, offering the porches, they offered Monday last, which was not acceptable to us. We slept offered a term Wednesday, Thursday last week for a meeting of the Commission with the board. They didn't accept those terms, and I sent an emergency to the board and to them yesterday, to ask for a meeting, I think we know where we're at. Today I expect a final answer to whether it will be Monday or Tuesday, to see if they have suggestions, with what suggestions to know what to do next. I'm just saying this so my fellow members of the Commission know, so next week we insisted that we have a meeting with the board of directors and representatives of the Council of Ministers to see if they have draft laws and to agree on a further way of working and dealing with these legislative proposals. So much and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16451	Thank you. The replica of Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16452	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, as far as the supplement that my colleague Ljilja gave me is concerned, I'm glad that I've heard this and it's nothing new that I've heard, but it doesn't mean that today we don't need to get information from the Council of Ministers why they haven't done it by 31, and what they're going to do, because every day the law is costing us, I don't want to bring the numbers out here, because someone can trouble the figure, but it's clearly about millions of smugglers who aren't in budgets, every day of this kind of excise law, means further killing domestic production, and that's why I think we need to be informed that we have an active role. As for Mrs Palavrić's proposal for a discussion. It is clear as a day that we are, in fact, thinking about this and it is nothing at all controversial, it proves how democratic this Parliament is. The reason why I asked for the conclusion that, which I delivered to the chairman to be placed on the agenda is because it is not on the agenda today, and I am asking that the law that we have received and which we have seen and never is found on the agenda before us for one simple reason why it is a burden for this Parliament. We have received before us a law that is contrary to the decisions of this same 7 parliament on moratorium, and that is why I ask that the conclusion strengthens what I am, not to put the resolution out of force, but to act in accordance with the resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16453	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please do not enter into each other's word. Do not modify each other's dialogue. Talk to the entire hall and above all to the chair and vice presidents, so we are chosen from you to lead the order, to take care of the order in this room. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16454	Because I've asked for a conclusion on the removal of this law from the procedure. I'm here from a colleague found guilty of not receiving a salary in this House. I was found guilty here because as outgoing foreign minister on the same day that I stopped being transferred to college and I was not one day at the expense of taxpayers doing what I was appointed to do. So, Mrs. Palavrić, we should be correct about not accusing me of not receiving a salary in this House, and I would therefore ask that you simply declare this in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because I believe that raising your hands will show that we are not all the same, and let each one conclude by the raised hand who is who he is.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16455	Thank you. Now we have a replica on the line. Dear colleagues, I will honor all your demands. I'm asking you to be brief. I won't deny anyone's discussion, but to know that replicas can last for a maximum minute. Answer the replicas even shorter, and you can say anything in a minute if you think carefully about what is to be said before. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16456	I don't have a reply to the replica, but I wanted to ask the chairman that he really takes care when his colleagues suggest something on the agenda, I guess they should rely on some member of this Rules of Procedure, that is, the act we're working on. I didn't find that somewhere we could suggest not to put some law on the agenda, a law that isn't even there. So, a law that is not in the process, because the Constitutional and Legal Commission has not adopted even its constitutional basis, etc. Of course I respect the way Mr. Lagumdžija is trying to approach this problem, with me not saying that he and Mrs. Palavrić have different opinions, but different interests. 8 namely, Mr. Lagumdžija has no interest, because he has an interest in the other side and it's perfectly normal for him to have another story and another interest here. So we should say it like it is. And, secondly, we can't put something on the agenda that doesn't exist. I ask that today's session be guided by the agenda we have here, a team before this is before the SDP's proposal or the Expansive College. We didn't have this kind of proposal from the chairman of the club, because it's obvious that the motioner does not want to discuss the proposal, but rather that he is running politics here, and I must say he is sincerely undermining both the public and this home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16457	I thank Mr. Novaković. This is now the answer to the reply to the replica, Mr. Lagumdžija, a minute please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16458	I've heard from Mr. Novaković that this law does not exist. The law we all have, the law we got. The Coca law was sent to Parliament by the joint commissions. So, this law is ahead of us. Unfortunately, he has been in front of us for a long time, and I would just ask you to vote on my proposal and it will be easier for you to vote on the conclusion to get out of the procedure of the law that you certainly claim he is not there, so at least it will be easy for you to throw something out, is practically not going to throw anything out, but unfortunately there is a conclusion that my proposal is in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, because this Parliament can draw a conclusion that is binding, if nothing commits it to behave in accordance with its earlier decision, such as the resolution, which very clearly says, what...
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16459	Dear colleagues, I ask you to hold a debate on the agenda of the end, to go to a plea, not to open an unnecessary debate. Things are completely clear. I will explain it to you, and the Secretary of the House will explain it to you, and we will make a decision according to the Rules of Procedure, you will make it. Please keep that in mind. Very short Mr. Hazim Felić replica, come forward before you, then Mr. Zorić replica, then Mrs. Seada Palavrić, the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16460	It's not a replica to Mr. Lagumdžija. It's a recommendation. I ask MP Lagumdžija that the letter received by all MPs, and particularly by the chairman of this House and by the chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Commission to refer this letter to the chairman of Bihac municipality, given that they planned to pay 18% this year and the increase in compensation by as much as 29.5%. Since it is the SDP's authority, I ask him to send the letter to Bihac as well. Thank you very much. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16461	Thank you very much. Mr. Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16462	Well, I'm not fit by Mr. Lagumdžija who thinks he's smart, so he says unfortunately there's a bill. And that this matter is not regulated by law in BiH at all. So, unfortunately, someone has started the initiative or written some kind of proposal, and I'm not going to go into whether it's good or bad, wrote a bill that will sort out one matter, and I think any matter in BiH should be regulated by law. Lagumdžija thinks no one should touch the decisions he made in 2000, which pay the salaries of both officials and MPs and everyone in this parliament. I don't know what kind of work he's doing in this House. He runs into two -- three commissions, and then he runs into lectures, and then he says, "I'm gone, so he only comes here while the cameras are etc. I'm willing to talk about everything and talk about all the receipts here openly. Who wants to talk here about the payments at Central Bank? Who wants to talk about Parliamentarians' salaries? Who wants to talk about salaries or the SDP budget, about usurping the ownership of the communist alliance, etc. And they say they didn't commit those crimes, it's a Communist alliance, but whose building is ours. Let's talk about everything. What are the agency's salaries? The salaries are in the municipality of Bihać. I say to you that there are generals who have higher salaries than the representatives, not only in Bihac, and what Sead says, let's arrange for members of the Presidency 100%, the President of Parliament 90%, the President of the Council of Ministers 90 and then down. The president of the Federation is less than a representative. But no, we don't want that. I say, unfortunately, there is a law that wants some matter. Imagine, unfortunately. Unfortunately for whom? Please don't worry about the public anymore. If we all had what we had, and that's seven million spent by this parliamentary assembly, we'd give it to any institution that you care so much about, their wages, pensions, etc. They wouldn't increase 0.5%, and I'm telling you that there are agencies that spend more than the entire Parliamentary Assembly. Who's in the media Parliamentarians? Why? I don't want us to be, today I said it on an enlarged college, parliamentarians against everyone and vice versa against parliamentarians. I want to open that box. Let's talk about the receipts. How can a man write that there will be a pension after today, if someone went to retire 2,500 today and when someone said, my colleague Jović said it was around 1,400, so he says it's small. And if someone lied to 1,100 okay. It's for the media okay and it immediately announces that they haven't asked or calculated how much it is, and then when someone corrects it and says, then it's a lot, so 300 marks is a lot if we compare it to 30 fening. Let's start talking real about some things once. I'm personally that law goes into procedure. What numbers are they gonna be in there? Wasn't it too much to say that the law states that the MP has the right to pay, and then the Council of Ministers has to write the bill on salaries, not just for representatives, but for all those who are on the state budget? If not, the Council of Ministers wants some Jusufović and Spasojević, who also wrote this bill, i.e. the Administrative Commission. So, you're allowing yourself. I have received a full set of laws from SDP MPs, and that the Commission must not do so, or two commissions in this parliamentary 10 assembly. So, I can say, unfortunately, Lagumdžija wrote some resolution or some law, but I won't say that. Let's, we'll measure it, we'll change it, then Novakovic's law on sending arms forces, etc. There are hundreds of amendments written, hundreds of consents and ten sessions we held, but we got the law. So is that a bad thing to write amendments to this law on the rights and duties of MPs? Let's get an environment. Albania, Macedonia, Serbia-Montenegro, Croatia, Slovenia, I am to take the average of these countries, to take below average. If it wasn't 65% starting, it'd be 50%, but if we're going to let us walk here, Mirko Baković from Livna, I know him, he was two mandates, where he is today. He'll die before anyone can pass this law. I can wait another ten years to 55, because there's a 55-year limit there. But will we tomorrow when Tihić or I don't know which member of the presidency who's out of a job, that he's going to some private firm looking for a job. So read the rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia when his term of office ceases. He's entitled to everything, to cabinets, to a certain number of people who will help him work, to the driver and everything else.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16463	Mr. Zorić, this is already rapping. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16464	Excuse me. This is the story I suggested at the College. I'd like to talk about it, but I don't have a place to go, and we're all being attacked through the media, like we're robbing this country. Let's compare seven million to the Parliamentary Assembly, to anyone, and I don't allow anyone to talk to the media that MPs have the right to use their cell phones. They don't, they have some.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16465	Thank you, Mr. Vinko Zorić. Please, this was a discussion. But it's too long for discussion, too. Because this is a debate on the agenda. I have a feeling that this debate on the agenda point proposal is actually going to turn into a debate on the agenda point. Don't let that happen. I've seen Mr. Jović. I've seen, I've already been distracted, I haven't looked at this electronic log-in and that's why. You're next in line after Mrs. Seada Palavrić's replica, but the answer now to the replica, I don't know what else to call it looking for Mr. Lagumdžija, but I beg you. From now on, I'll stop anything that passes a minute. Here, you know, so anything that passes a minute, I'll hang up.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16466	The proposal for my agenda has turned into a debate on the agenda and attack on me because of what I suggested. You're all talking to me in a very personal way. I've heard from you here that I don't need to worry about the public, I've heard from you that I don't need to speak in front of the cameras, I've heard a lot from you, Mr. Zorić, and we've heard that our interests are different. My interest as a man would be to accept a law like this, because tomorrow 11 could retire immediately and have twice as much pension as my regular professor's salary, but I have no idea that I'm in it. That's not normal, Mr. Zorić. It is not normal for an MP to have a month's pension as much as an average pension for years in this country, it is not normal and it should be kicked out of this parliament before it comes into the process of any kind. That's what this is about. This just right over here needs to be put to the point and to see that we're not all the same. We don't all have the same interest, we don't think the same thing, and that's normal. It's not the law, it's the answer to Mr. Zorić, who's been talking about me for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16467	Mr. Lagumdžija, the minute is up. Mrs. Seada Palavrić, a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16468	With a certain and certain risk that Mr. Lagumdžija today, tonight and tomorrow, the scapegoat will turn out again in all the media and if he is the one who makes us robbers. I will again, as he said correctness works to say when the gentleman decided to take his book and go to university, he did it because it was worth more to him, which is a better salary there, and so is the pay from the back of the taxpayers. You know I've been here three years looking for information on what the salary is in which of the institutions, but the correctness is asking you. Is it true that in December 2002, after you lost the election, as a member of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, you installed the minister's post in the salary of ministers, received by your ministers a year after they lost their mandate?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16469	It's over a minute, thank you, Mrs. Palavrić. Mr Ivo Miro Jović, discussion on the agenda, on the draft agenda. Discussion up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16470	While welcoming you Mr. Presidents and distinguished colleagues to make it possible for me, because we in the Administrative Commission have not had full composition for a long time, we have just received a young representative as chairman, one chair, so allow me on behalf of the Administrative and as a member, not on behalf of the Commission, but as a member of the Administrative and Constitutional Commission to say a few sentences more, and in a special way, here is what ten days the newspaper and the media about Jović, no one has asked him a word. This is the only opportunity for me as a man to say a word maybe more, up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16471	You've got two more, I've already started time-consuming. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16472	I am a proud member of the Administrative Commission who has proposed a law, which has its place, because I belong to a Parliament that wants to reform BiH and draw it closer to European standards. I guess the European sandar what I'm doing here, the European standard of what I want, and I want to enjoy it. Here's the noise of holding a thief, but it's a great shame that OHR got involved along with certain powers to interpret the false data proposed by this law. One of them is extremely embarrassing, which is that 2,500, you know that 2,180 marks are paid and that 60% is proposed retirement. And I'm just asking, just before one meeting of the Constitutional Commission, Mr. Ćeman had at one law 23 amendments, additions, amendments. That and other colleagues, so it's over 30. Just remember some laws, where I've had 40 repairs and, please, can't the law be fixed, but that we have and that we should be proud, because others didn't want to participate that we have that law. Please, here at the last session, we had a man by the SDP Party, Mr. Honorable Representative Jozo Križanović asked. Is it possible that the average salary in that agency is 60,000 marks a year? He said yes, gentlemen, so we'll hire two more men. Two thousand marks was a regression. That's what we heard here last time. Please, I wouldn't mind if this respectable home didn't bring in a budget for that agency, and we don't have the right to criticise or adopt what they're doing there, and, more importantly, the big Serbs about people who are taking pensions, and even that unblessed man who ran the diary the other day, he told me to leave me a salary to retire from 190, and I can do another 20 years to carry him back. Six million, my dear.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16473	Time's up, Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16474	I'll be right there. Six million is a pension fund postman's fee. Which is more than our budget, and I still have one thing to say. At the time of the alliance, we had a priest in Rahab, who spent the entire term on the minister's salary. Where were you, Mr. Lagumdžija? A year after his term of office, he was paid.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16475	It's a complete discussion, thank you very much. Please nice, I don't have any more, I apologize. Mr. Nikola Špirić. Discussion up to three minutes. I've got an electronic Mr. Nijaz Duraković here. I'm sorry, it's written to me here.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16476	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests, may be most grateful to discuss today, but here I want to say that I will talk about the agenda and, of course, I will support the position of the College, the Extended College for the 13th agenda. I really don't mind if the MPs propose an addition to the agenda, and I will plead on every point. Someone mentioned here why there are no Council of Ministers today, no members of the Bureau. I have spoken today, and I want to publicly say that this Parliament, unfortunately also MPs, will pay the price of poor work of the Council of Ministers, we are already paying it in public. It is said that the Council of Ministers does not meet for two months and that there will be no damage to the state and that there will be no meeting of the state parliament, and we are guilty, and we do not decide on the Council of Ministers. We are the only state looking in Europe, where the resignation of ministers is a procedural matter. A thing that could take half a year, two months, not to work or to do worse. But, ladies and gentlemen, this position is precisely this Parliament's fault. I've launched my initiatives countless times, talked about the work of the Council of Ministers, and then these felt like the opposition's passion to bring down the Council of Ministers. No, I don't. It is a message to the parliamentary majority that it changes something that is wrong within the Council of Ministers, and that if you do not listen to the word of the opposition, you tell yourself what it is that should change, but I think it is high time, not that people come here and listen is not the work of the Council of Ministers to listen to sometimes empty stories. So, to attend, but to do and to do what they're legally in charge of. But when it comes to the agenda, I have to say that sometimes we define ourselves the points of the agenda that Parliament puts on ice, to condemn the public for a reason, sometimes without reason, and I think the greatest privileges of both MPs and state officials that are not legally defined. And I think the undefined status of any civil servant, including the MPs, can be used for various types of blackmail. Sometimes they are related to the domestic political environment, sometimes to the international. I am not going to talk about the starting elements of the law, which is proposed, but I think this parliament must define the rights and obligations of MPs, assuming that we enter into that law a reduction of what one can call a privilege and I think we must legalise our work so that we can look everyone in the face. I'm afraid this as can be interpreted as a struggle for the social status of people who are also a miserable struggle to preserve the privileges achieved, if anyone thinks these are privileges. I'm ready to say everything I think about the law that's been offered. But this parliament has neither the power nor the power to accept nor refuse. The Constitutional Legal Commission communicates with the public instead of saying. The law is unconstitutional and we reject the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16477	Time, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16478	I mean. Or pass the law to discuss in this House and to say what we think of that status. I think rights and obligations must be in line with the economic social environment.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16479	Mr. Špirić, time's up. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16480	Just a little chairing to conclude. I think this should be legally defined. What's the debate, what's anybody gonna think if it's a high salary and the one we've got, if we cut it down, if we're gonna cut the extras, if we're gonna wipe the phones? Let's talk about it. Now, that's my attitude about this, and I don't think we should be making ice sucky, but open-minded talk about everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16481	Thank you very much. Mr. Sead Avdić discusses up to three minutes on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16482	Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, I'll just have a few suggestions. First of all, it feels like we don't respect the procedure in this home. So, the creation of the agenda is done on an extended college and the Extended College has the possibility that all clubs should express their opinion and their demands. Unless the Extended College accepts the club's proposal, the club shall have the right to apply for that item at the sitting itself. However, if a surprise factor is used, it should be objectively asked what objectives and motives such simply come forward or simply sensational attempts to animate the public etc. So, please respect simply what has changed since the Expansive College meeting to the beginning of the session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, unless the surprise factor is to be used and used by the media in this room. So that's one. Two, I think the Administrative Commission, given this dramatic economic and social situation, must have the sense to get to know the public about what it is that no manipulations and speculations in the public themselves would have already had figures cast out, which keep the public busy in BiH. Soon, MPs of this house and the House of Peoples will be walking heads down this city and other cities throughout BiH, they must not say they are MPs of the BiH Parliamentary House. So, I ask you, since a negative sign has already been obtained in public, given that there is no objective information, given that it is being manipulated by certain political forces, I am asking the Administrative Commission, and perhaps it is better to extend the College to give a full statement on this law on the rights and obligations of the BiH MPs. That's below two. Under three, I agree with my counterpart Zorić, this Pandora's box of unequal incomes and personal incomes should be opened at BiH level, from agencies, the Central Bank and 15 to the BiH Parliament. It's quite transparent to tell people who are receiving it. Who's ashamed of what? Just objectively open Pandora's box. And until then, by law, simply enable, give the Council of Ministers that at least by decision they try to even these personal incomes. So that's below three. Under four, Mr. Chairman, you must create a defence strategy to lead this home by the November – October 2006 elections. So the election campaign has started and it just has to be followed by the procedure and the Rules of Procedure of this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16483	Thank you, Mr. Avdić. Time's up. Don't worry about driving. I'll tell you one thing after we finish discussing the agenda. Mr. Petar Kunić answered the question. Discussion up to three minutes. Here you go, Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16484	Thank the chairman, namely, I have felt the need for a long time, related to this parliament and manipulation of the events that take place in this parliament. Since the Bosnian-Herzegovic media are completely manipulated, they have their favorites, so they have people who favor it, we see it here when we go out on break, always one of those same individuals. I'd like to make a suggestion about that. We are all equal here in this House. To open up the possibility, we have a public service, a state service, to transfer our sessions, finally. We have conditions, and I would suggest that this parliament open a debate, namely to make a decision to transfer Parliament by pro-future, that is, entity parliaments, at least the RS entity, why Parliament should not do so. So, that's how we get into some equal game, all of us. I would have just opened that possibility for the reason the elections are coming next. Why should the people appreciate what they say about what they say in this provision and who manipulates the public? And as for the Constitutional Commission, since I was there, I think that the Constitutional Commission has done very concretely in this regard, refused to discuss, accepted the principles and I think that, given the structure of the Constitutional Commission and the mood that this law is, there is no way to go into procedure before Parliament and that the Constitutional Commission gives the green light in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16485	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, replica in a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16486	At yesterday's meeting, the Administrative Commission concluded and set out its group of people, which will contact the Administrative Financial Commission there from the House of Peoples and 31st, we will have a meeting and we will propose a complete solution to this 16 law. I repeat, we must have such a law, whether someone liked it or not. The law that treats this problem must be done. He can have no privilege inside that he doesn't. But the law must be, I repeat, what kind of a serious parliament would we be that wants to modernise and reform BiH, and the basic law about ourselves not to adopt. From these principles, I'm advocating myself... to pass such a law and, probably the media, it's recognised that I'm fighting for my own privileges.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16487	I thank Jović. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, discussion up to three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16488	It's not a discussion, it's a colleague and a colleague, Mr. Chairman, just to correct a few of these allegations, which are procedurally natural, and they're simply making a mistake.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16489	In a minute, then.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16490	I think I have to say on behalf of the Commission. So it's about the following, it was a finding that the law doesn't exist. The law exists and is in parliamentary procedure. It is from the proposing authority, this is the Administrative Commission. There was one delay in the procedure, but at the request of the promoter, the procedure was continued. This issue would not be covered by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, but rather by the College's decision, since the Administrative Proposer has appointed the Constitutional and Legal Commission as competent. So, as findings. Secondly, it was not the Constitutional and Legal Commission that was still stating the principles, because it did not enter the stage, but it was in the previous phase, given the already submitted amendments and assessments, it asked the promoter to analyse all this together, so, eventually, when the Commission discussed it as a competent commission to show it, given everything we have heard, what we have not heard and what we will hear. Therefore, in the next phase, the debate will open as competent, at the competent commission, that perhaps at the next session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and vote on the principles, it may be accepted, perhaps not, which is what I will not prejudge the solution and I would pray that there is no prejudge here in Parliament at all the solution that will be in the law, because at this point no one knows what kind of law will come under the hammer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16491	I thank Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. I'm closing the debate. No more reported, I am giving my word to the House Secretary, that regarding this item of the agenda, which 17 reads, the conclusion on the removal from the procedure of the law on the rights of members of the Parliamentary Assembly and the obligations, the rights and duties of members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, should give a business explanation. I'd like to ask the secretary for a business explanation. Here you go. After that, we'll go to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16492	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished members of the House College, much more debate here was and I think there are also a lot of good interpretations of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, especially by Mr Ćeman, Novaković, Professor Kunić, etc., but as Secretary of the House I want to tell you next. As far as the procedure is concerned, we are regularly implementing the procedure and I would like to say that the law has arrived in the parliamentary procedure of an authorised promoter, in accordance with Article 82. Rules of Procedure. So, the mandated proposer is the Commission of the House of Representatives Administrative when it comes to the House of Representatives and the Commission for Administrative and Financial Affairs when it comes to the House of Peoples. The text of the law, if memory serves me well, proposes a law on the rights and duties of members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The reason for entering this parliamentary procedure was the next. Article 4 The Law on State Service in BiH institutions has excluded members of our Parliament, including others from, I say, the status of civil servants, leaving the question which the law applies when it comes to the rights and duties of MPs. We don't have a single law that regulates this issue, so on the Administrative Commission, which I attended, and I was also a member of the Working Group, we decided to appear as an authorised committee of our home and the proposal was addressed to the College of the House, the College of the House determined that the competent commission in accordance with Article 83(2). The Rules of Procedure shall be the Constitutional and Legal Commission. The reason is that the proposer is Administrative, so it has some logic, that as an additional jurisdiction, the Constitutional and Legal Commission will take over. In order for other committees, as not competent commissions, to appear in the post of proposing new amendments. The law is in the procedure that Mr. Ćeman explained, so the Constitutional and Legal Commission gave a positive opinion in that first part of the procedure, where it gives an opinion in accordance with Article 84(1) and we gave this positive opinion again to the Constitutional and Legal Commission that it appears, a positive opinion on constitutional, when I speak of opinion, then it is always meant by the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission on the conformity of the law in question with the Constitution of BiH. It's an opinion, and then a report appears. So, right now, the law is on the board of directors, which is the competent commission of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and it applies those provisions, so-called. The commission phases, the legislative process of the commission phase and, according to the current rules of procedure, 18 must end the procedure, positively or negatively. If the report is positive in the commission phase, the report with positive principles and with a positive bill with the amendments adopted, then it submits a report to the House and, according to Article 93, only then, the law in question is included in the agenda of the House, even if the opinion is negative, it also goes back to the House to show the House and that, possibly, a new deadline for investing amendments and correcting the text of the law. I'm not familiar with the institution of withdrawing the law from the parliamentary procedure when it enters the procedure. So the House can be manifested after the commission's report, either positive or negative. There's a business provision he probably wants to call an MP to, which is Article 51. The Rules of Procedure, which says that, at the beginning of each session, changes can be proposed and the agenda complemented, after a full debate, means proposals for the addition of the agenda for each new point, as the agenda shows. I think I've given enough information and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16493	I thank the Secretary of the House. So, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you've received an clarification from the Secretary of the House. You've seen how things are with the Rules of Procedure. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, it's not possible to get the law out of the procedure, by the Rules of Procedure, Mr Lagumdžija, I have to say this, if you want to vote on it, I'll put it to the vote. Do you want to keep voting? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16494	First, I would like to thank the Secretary of the House for explaining this to us. I have to admit that you didn't translate what was said, I wouldn't know what was said if you couldn't. So, from this explanation, I didn't realize at all that you couldn't do that. However, the House may, in its conclusion, regulate specific issues which are not regulated by the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 137. So, the House can conclude that the law in the form in which it was proposed is already given in the Constitutional Commission a constitutional basis that exists. The law that is before us is in a form that is unacceptable to this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16495	Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16496	Mr. Džaferović, I ask that we make a statement on the agenda point, and then we can discuss all this again later. But the agenda point is to plead. I'd also like to ask you to list me if you would. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16497	Mr. Lagumdžija, thank you very much. So, like this, please nice. Based on what I've been given, and based on what I've done, we've concluded the debate. This was a business intervention we're going to vote on. No more discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16498	...after the interpretation and after your statement, you, if you insist, we will vote, this talk about the documents, I want to say something on the subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16499	We've closed the raps. I can't go any further. Mr. Belkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16500	Please, on behalf of the Members of the Party for BiH, we have listened very carefully to this story, of course, and we have our opinions on the way and the goals etc. But the bottom line is the next one. So, after the Secretary of the House's interpretation, you said it was an interpretation, etc., but if Mr. Lagumdžija insists, you'll put it to the vote. Is it by the Rules of Procedure or not by the Rules of Procedure? If not, let's not vote for something that's not according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Lagumdžija will, after all, be at the opportunity and be on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and if the law comes here, we are also at the opportunity, but, for your information, we will not support this content of the law. Is it okay?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16501	Thank you very much. Please bring the debate to an end. So the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure is what it is. But there's no debate here, and you misunderstood what I was saying. It is not a debate here to vote whether the law will be thrown out or not, but it is here to discuss whether to include the agenda item, which will be discussed and we vote please nice and the MP has the right to ask, to vote on it, whether it will be classified as a item of the agenda, and I must put it on it. Please, nice. Prepare to vote. We are voting on whether, as the third item of the agenda, a proposal will be put in place to conclude this law from the parliamentary procedure, as a part of the agenda. How come he can't? Will you interpret the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Palavrić? I've concluded a debate on the agenda and I'm running this house. If you think I'm not doing it right, you know what to do, but while I'm sitting here, let me run the House the way I interpret the Rules of Procedure and how the College interprets it and how the secretary interprets it. Please, Secretary, answer the question one more time. Does the MP have the right to request that something be included in the agenda, no matter what procedure it was later? Here you go. So please be nice. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16502	I'd like to warn you about article 51 and if I've interpreted it before. We just gave an interpretation of the rules of the Rules of Procedure regarding legislative procedures under the amended law. But it's not on the agenda. There is a proposal on the agenda to change the agenda and it is a member of 51st that decidently says. If no amendments to the agenda are proposed, the agenda shall be considered adopted. In the event that the proposed amendments to the agenda and after MPs have expressed their views on the proposal, the House will vote on any proposed amendment. I am drawing the conclusion that a proposal from the MPs to enter as a part of the agenda, I think that point 3 enters that proposal and that the House can be seen on the basis of all these discussions. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16503	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and I'm asking you to prepare for the vote. We vote on Mr. Zlatko Lagudmžija's proposal to include, as the 3rd item of the agenda in today's session agenda, the conclusion (decision) on the removal from the procedure of the law on the rights and duties of members of the Parliamentary Assembly in accordance with the resolution of 8.9.2004. I call upon you to state who is therefore, who is against and who is abstention to be the point of today's agenda. Prepare to vote. Vote now and let the list be prepared. I find that with six votes in favour of, 22 votes against, this proposal has not received the necessary parliamentary majority and there will be no agenda point today. Let's move on. Pelazimon's next proposal is the proposal by Mr Lagumdžija, Mr Lagumdžija's second proposal to include, as part of today's 12th agenda, information from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of Parliament's conclusions on amendments to the Excise Act, which was to be prepared by 31.1.2005. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 19 for, 8 against, the enough entity majority, I find that Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's second proposal was accepted and that, as the 12th item of the agenda, information was included by the Council of Ministers on the implementation of Parliament's conclusion on the amendment and addition of the Excise Act, which was to be prepared by 31.1.2005. We're moving on to the next proposal. The next proposal is Mr. Joza Križanović. Mr. Križanović submitted this initiative on 14th of this month. I don't know whether it's on behalf of the club or not, but that initiative has been submitted. You've got her. This morning, the College discussed the College, the Dake, not extended, but the College was considering this initiative and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, decided to forward this initiative to the Constitutional and Legal Committee, and after that initiative went to the House, or to the House of Representatives, but the MP is asking today to be the item of the agenda, I urge you to prepare yourself for a vote on whether this will be the point of the agenda today. Prepare to vote. 21 Vote now. For 11, versus 18, the proposal did not receive the necessary parliamentary majority. Thank you. We move to a statement on Mr. Živković's proposal. We had a point last time that Mr. Živković suggested today. Since then, until today, the BiH Parliament, I repeat, has not received any information from the Ministry of Defence, I remind you of the words of the minister who spoke to this speaker, that the information will be delivered to the Council of Ministers and, by definition, to the Council of Ministers will be delivered here to Parliament. So, we have no information, but the MP insists that it be a point of the agenda, in fact, suggests. I'm obliged to put it to a vote. I invite you to prepare for the vote on this proposal. Vote now. A total of 23 is enough entity majority. I find this adopted as the 14th item of the agenda. No more new proposals. New proposals concerning the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, is that what you're asking to do in the agenda? Please, on the agenda, I thought this was a proposal, so Mr. Kunić suggests the conclusion that, in fact, the draft conclusion is included in the agenda as a special item of the agenda. The BiH Public Service is called on to provide technical conditions for direct transfers of parliamentary, transfer of the assembly session. So this is a suggestion to be the point of the agenda, that's the only way it can be. I urge you to make a statement about this proposal to be the point of the agenda to be the point of the agenda today. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 27 for, 3 against, 27 per entity. I find this proposal accepted as the last item of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I declare that today's session session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina reads: 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 51st session of the House, please pay attention, 2. MPs' questions and arrangements, 3. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Public Radio Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina on an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 14. Rules of Procedure, Council of Ministers' request for consideration, 104. Rules of Procedure, what did I say? 104. Rules of Procedure, 4. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Foreign Affairs, by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 22. 5. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Purpose and Use of Part of Assets received by Bosnia and Herzegovina under the Agreement on Succession, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 6. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act under an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 7. Proposal for a Law on Postings of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Second Reading, 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina, First Reading, 9. Proposal for a law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detention and other measures in Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading, 10. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 11a) Information on all current and future missions of members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces with the Report of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy and under (b) Information on the participation of police officers in peacekeeping missions with the Report of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy. 12. The proposal for a conclusion about, no, no, the mistake is so please nice. You didn't follow me obviously. I was wrong. So the item on the 3rd agenda of today's session is the proposal, which is not adopted. I'm sorry. It's okay. I apologize to the MPs. So point 12. The agenda reads – Information from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of Parliament's conclusion on amendments and additions to the Excise Act to be prepared by 31.01.2005. That's point 12. Point 13 of the agenda is 13. The report on the audit of the Agency for Labour and Employment with the Report of the Committee on Finance and Budget, item 14. The Ministry of Defence's information on Kasarna's inspection in Han Pijesk and the possible involvement of military personnel in the detection of persons charged with war crimes points 15. Report by the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum on visits to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly to the International Criminal Tribunal for War Crimes committed in the area of the former Yugoslavia, Point 16. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an investigative commission to determine the degree of radiation of poored uranium and the consequences of citizens' health in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Hadzic, Han Pijesak, Bratunac, Majjevica and other locations, 23 Point 17. Giving consent to ratification under (a) the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes of Violence, (b) the European Convention on Transfer of Conduct in Criminal Matters, (c) the European Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, (d) the Consular Convention between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Turkey and (e) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Italy on the mutual regulation of the mutual transport of passengers and freight and I Point 18 of the Daily Work 18. The proposal for a conclusion by Mr. Petar Kunić, which, if accepted, would call on the Public Service, would invite BiH Public Service to provide technical conditions for the direct transfer of the assembly session. This is the agenda for today's session. I ask Parliament's services to prepare this innovative agenda in order to be able to keep a quality eye on this. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament before we move to the agenda, I want to tell you the answer in this way to the question asked in some way by Mr. Sead Avdić that we will take care of the work of this house, that we will take care of the discussions. I started using this method for three minutes today. I am asking the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, since there are technical conditions to ensure that here in the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina on these screens the reading of the duration of the discussion that you all see how long the discussion is and that we all know in fact who it is that eventually abuses the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking the Secretariat if it's possible from the next session to do so. I got information that it's possible. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we move to the first item of the agenda. That's Ad.1. The record from the 51st session of the House you've received. I'm opening a debate as per the record. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the discussion on the record. I'm calling you. Mr. Jozo Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16504	I only have one intervention on the other side of the record. The fifth row stands below which institutions and owners – should stand with which institutions and individuals. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16505	I think it's a correct correction. Anyone else want to talk about the record? I hereby conclude the debate and invite you to make a statement with this observation by Mr Joza Križanović on the vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives by majority vote 30 for, 1 against, with a sufficient entity majority adopted the minutes of last session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at this moment in Parliament, there are 36 Members present at the House of Representatives. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović justified her absence. There's no Mr. Andrić Filip here. He's sick and justified his absence. Mr. Selim Bešlagić justified the absence; Mr. Potočnik Mladen justified the absence; Mr. Đedović Ibrahim, I have no information and Mr. Jahić Elmir, he justified the absence. It's a quorum condition. Before we move to the second item of the agenda, these are parliamentary questions and answers, immediately to inform you that we will work until 11 and 45, so up to 15 to 12, and after that we will take a break to 13 and 15, that is 1 and 15. We'll be working for another 15 minutes. Please. We're going to work another 15 minutes because today is Friday, there are people who have needs and obligations, and it's going to be time to use them for lunch, and that's, of course, the college's decision, and that's how it's going to be. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda to take advantage of these 15 minutes. Ad.2. MPs' questions and answers Until this session, ladies and gentlemen the MPs have received an MP, Adem Huskić, from the Intelligence Agency to a question asked at the 51st session. We didn't get any other answers. And he's an official secret and I'm informing you that we're dealing with this issue accordingly. Is there any need to ask parliamentary questions? Mr. Hazim Felić, then Mr. Beriz Belkić. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16506	I thank Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, my question is to the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina: - Does the Council of Ministers do what it does, and if not when it will consider the request of the pensioner, the citizens of BiH who made their pensions in the Republic of Slovenia, and to protect them, since they cannot exercise the right to health care in Bosnia and Herzegovina or in the Republic of Slovenia, and recently, a pension tax has been introduced from 18% to 30%? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16507	Thank you. Next up, Secretary, help me out a little bit. Who signed up next? Mr. Beriz Belkić. Okay, you're telling me who's applying.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16508	My question is: - Is the Ministry of Human and Refugees or some other institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina owned by reports from the European Commission, i.e. the European Commission, the Council of Europe on the fight against racism and intolerance, which states that, and in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there are problems of racism, that is, ethnic and religious discrimination particularly manifested in the areas of education, employment, addressing housing problems of health and so on? And is there any intention, if this report is owned, to get to know the content of the report the legislative and executive authorities and what measures are planned to eliminate these darkest forms of human rights violations, as recorded in this report? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16509	Thank you. Next is Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Have Mr. Milorad Živković prepare himself. Send the questions in writing, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16510	I am on occasion to ask a question for the Federal Employment Service and the Agency for Labour and Employment of Bosnia and Herzegovina. These two institutions are designed for the purpose of performing certain activities in the field of labour and employment and are sure that the huge capital is financially placed there and is lying down and out or I don't know how to deploy. According to my knowledge, 62% of the employees of the Federal Bureau are Hrvat, and that's how it has been for several years. 26 So I ask these two institutions: What are the national structures in these two institutions, and when will this change?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16511	Thank you. Next up is Mr. Milorad Živković. Have Mr. Vinko Zorić prepare himself. All you have to do is follow the log-in order.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16512	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, here we have been mentioning for two years the fact that both this institution of questions and answers does not work for the simple reason why we do not have anyone from the ministry to sit there and it would be much simpler to just answer these simple questions with one sentence. My simple question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Institute of Standards, Measurement and Intellectual Property: - What are the criteria for granting a licence to implement the Copyright and Related Rights Act, and who has so far obtained that licence? With one single sentence, all this procedure regarding sending it to the Council of Ministers, returning it to the MPs, the wait of 2-3 months would be over. A simple question, and a very important question, because here in Bosnia and Herzegovina we have an institute, but we do not have one who implements the law, to whom money is paid, to which the bill is being returned and how much Bosnia and Herzegovina gets in the budget under this law that this parliament has brought. I think it would be time for the College to agree already once that someone from the Council of Ministers, there are enough deputies from all ministries to be present when we have these questions to get an answer, because after that, our initiative to create an agency, as there is an agency in Croatia that would regulate this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16513	Thank you. The next word came from Mr Vinko Zorić, to be prepared by Mrs Senija Kapetanović. Here you go, sir. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16514	I asked a question two or three sessions ago, and it was about the problem of the Bosnia and Herzegovina lottery. I have received an answer with which, of course, I am not satisfied and I am renewing, so I repeat the question which is: - Who are members of the Governing Board of the lottery of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the brackets of their names and last names, not nationality and gender? - Who was all of Bosnia and Herzegovina's sponsored and donated to in 2003 and 2004?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16515	I thank Mr. Vinko Zorić. The word is Mrs. Kapetanović. Have Mr. Ivo Lozančić prepare for questioning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16516	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, my question concerns the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina: - How did the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina fail to respect national representation in the appointment of judges and prosecutors in Prijedor? Namely, no judge has been appointed in Prijedor, nor has a prosecutor from the Bosniak people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16517	Thank you. Mrs. Dušanka Majkić and get ready. Excuse me, Mr. Ivo Lozančić, let Mrs. Dušanka Majkić prepare herself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16518	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues are the reason for my application to ask questions is my conversation with part of the management of Elektro Bosna Jajce several months ago who then asked me to ask a question about the robbery here and they allegedly followed the documentation with evidence of the robbery done in Elektro Bosna Jajce, and the additional motive is the latest writing of the weekly press on the company Elektro Bosna for the robbery where the Executive Chairman of the Board and the Director of Enterprises and members of the Supervisory Board accuses of the robbery of some allegedly fictitious firm registered in London, which, without fraud, became the majority owner without the investment of money with the help of the previous 28 management board and robbed the company Elektro Bosna Jajce who was the potential for a complete city and wider when it comes to the egg. I hesitated nature, expecting a response from the system, as they told me at the level of the entities to which it would belong, but since there was no reaction my question was addressed to the Council of Ministers and it reads: - What can and can the Council of Ministers wish to react to this case and similar cases that companies that have similarly been robbed and the entity systems have not responded, and even more so we have the emphasis that individuals and accomplices are such robberies? I expect a written response that the Council of Ministers will make an effort to get an answer in cooperation with entity systems.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16519	Thank you. We have until the break of 5 minutes, if it is possible for Mrs Dušanka Majkić, Ruža Sopta and Mr Novaković to ask their questions in those 5 minutes. Is that possible? Here you go, Mrs. Majkić. Please take care of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16520	The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe aims to eliminate all forms of discrimination against women and to promote equality propose that, as soon as possible, public debates be held on this subject in all countries and in all governments. In line with this, I refer a concrete question to the Council of Ministers, the competent ministry, and it comes down to the following: - What has been done so far to promote gender equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially from the aspect of the application of the law on gender equality? - How long has it been since the adoption of new laws, amending existing laws to comply with the provisions of the Gender Equality Act? - Is the procedure for the establishment of the Gender Equality Agency finally completed and is the same staff and materially capable of acting in accordance with Article 23. Gender equality laws? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16521	Thank you. Mrs. Ruža Sopta. Here you go. Let Mr. Novaković prepare himself. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16522	I ask, thank Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, patience a little, I ask a question to the Council of Ministers, I don't know if it's the right address, but in connection with: - What is he going to do about the competition award of radio and TV broadcast frequencies, or TV channels that have been called by the Regulatory Agency and which is still open? It is incomprehensible that the tender goes before and in the least compared to considering the Law on the Public Radio Television System of BiH and will be completed before the procedure under this law is completed. - Will the Council of Ministers ask for the tender to be annulled, or will it extend the time limit until the legal procedure ends, which will determine how many channels there will be at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16523	Thank you. And Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16524	I thank the chairman. My question is: - What was the news of the Republika Srpska government's election on the daily Public Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or BHTV on February 15, 2005? - Who's the editor-in-chief of the Information Program and who's the realizer of that show? It is interesting that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and thus the Republika Srpska, single out significant funds, both for funding Bosnia and Herzegovina's television, both legal and entity televisions, i.e. TVRS, and it is probably the government's choice of news for the television, especially given all the problems that were related to the government's election. I have to say that the news was, but in a completely different way, and that's why it doesn't have to be surprising that we have one, which is such a charge, or such a payment of compensation for Radio TV service. Of course, I am not surprised that it was the fifth, sixth or seventh news, because on Radio TV RS news of the RS president's activities will be in 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16525	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have concluded this item of the agenda. 30 I'm taking a break until 13 o'clock and 15 minutes. Don't be late. Thank you. MPs, we have quorum, we continue to work. [[PAUZA]] We're moving to the third item of the agenda. The third item of the agenda is A.3. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Public Radio Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina on an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Proposal for Law to the House were delivered on 9 February. The MPs were forwarded on February 11th. The applicant's request is for an emergency procedure under Article 104. The rules of procedure of this house. So we're pleading to the procedure. It's just the procedure. I'm opening a debate. Anybody want to talk? I'm closing the debate. I asked if there was anyone to talk? I was looking at you, sir. Here I see now, please, when you, you are reported electronically here, so that's true. But here I am, since there are mistakes in it, I always ask and watch in the O.R. Here you go. Here you go. Mr Ivo Miro Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16526	At the previous meeting, we discussed the topic of even inclusion of the agenda item, and we would have taken down one law for procedural reasons. I didn't want to answer because they say that according to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives, it's an immoral one, including with the elements of racism law. And for these reasons, I won't talk much about the content of the law, but I'm only going to say two clues that are in the light of the adoption of this law. 6.11. The Ministers of Communications met at the Council of Ministers and two entity ministers. And then on the 11th month, November 11th, the High Representative offered to join them also as chairman of the Council of Ministers and two prime ministers from the entity. For those who are not at all referred to the occasions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is evident that six people have met, to be clear, I respect their work and their integrity, humanity etc., but notice that none of the Croatian people, however much they run away from it, I would like to say that I am proud to belong to a country that wants and wants to propagate multiethnicity, multiculturality. But I think some things happen here that don't belong to it, they go to another element. By denying the will of a constituent people and surely I can convince you respected MPs that more than 10,000 collected signatures with a name and last name and with a unique home number etc. If it is necessary to collect 140 thousand 31 against this form of the Public Television System. The reason they find it is that they do not see the visibility of the protection of the national and cultural identity of Hrvat in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And it is clear to the uninformed that there is a violation of the Convention on the Rights of Human and Citizens here, in particular that of the Charter on Languages in Europe, which Bosnia and Herzegovina, fortunately signed by the chairman of then-Mr Tihić on 26 October this year. At the time of signing that decision, the meeting took place in the Bureau rooms, when there was a speech and I have this transcript, i.e. I have a stenogram of that conversation, and in accordance with the needs of the Charter, it also lists the languages spoken in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Charter insists that the languages listed in the Charter must have at least one television and one radio channel. And that's explicitly stated in the charter. And I also want to say that if this went the way it did, we're back in a position where there are two people and there's no place for a third. The message is bad, it's not human, it's not moral and it's not civilizational. Five hundred and forty thousand people, about how much there is to say that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, living Hrvat should be paid about 960 thousand marks a month. For those of you who don't know math, it's easy to figure out that's $11 million. The insistent legislator also speaks to international representatives of this part of the international community who want such a radical law that there is no money if we wanted to, because barely these. Well, we just talked about it, about the rights and obligations that we Parliamentarians have. No one says 400 people are currently on TV and Federation radio is excess. I don't know who's setting them up and where they're getting the money from, and there's 50 of us in both homes. And the problem is that we want to regulate that, that right in accordance with the law that we should pass, and it's not the problem of those who are there that don't know me on the payroll and don't do anything 400. I also want to, I'm talking about the terms of adoption of this bill and I think I can continue with this discussion by the president.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16527	I won't interrupt, but you're talking about the essence, we're talking about procedure. And you go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16528	I didn't mention a word to you, but if I were to talk about him, then I would find a fort about my finding on racist law. I didn't say a word. I'm only talking about the circumstances in which he was brought. I can only say that 34 countries of the world with fewer inhabitants than Hrvat in Bosnia and Herzegovina are recognised in the UN, 34 countries. I would also like to say that in our neighbourhood of Montenegro, which has fewer inhabitants, i.e. Crnogorac than Hrvat in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there are three channels, both satellite and radio, and it is not expensive. Interestingly, Albanac also have their own shows and acquittals. So 32 I'm not asking for anything less than others, but that, now that you've made me, I'll just say it. The board of directors will meet once in Banja Luka, once in Sarajevo. Here's to being jargon here in Sarajevo, waving. Here they will meet once in Banja Luka, once in Sarajevo, and there are three peoples. So then the administrative body will do what are in the federal four, those who are in Republika Srpska in television four and four upstairs, so there will be 12 of them and they will decide on it, and then their statute won't decide, in fact no one will give that consent to the statute. And if I don't get into this problem, I just want to say it's a shame for this Parliament if this law comes into the situation to vote, because it's racist, I repeat. The elements in it are racist.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16529	Who else wants to talk about procedure? Mr. Vinko Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16530	I'm also this one, I don't know if I'm going to be so focused that I'm not talking about content, but I'm going to say that this is one of the worse laws that I've got and I'm proposing that this law go into a regular procedure, because it's so bad that I don't know if we're going to split by chapter in the club to write as many amendments as there are bad things in the bill. This is for all, what Miro was talking about I won't repeat, but all the other peoples and we as Parliament have no control over this house that, I can't watch, I can't watch federal television, I can't watch TV service, where I, the BH service, TV, as it's called, don't know either. I love Bosnia and Herzegovina, I love television, but I can't watch it. So that someone wouldn't get me wrong, so they're replicating that I don't like Bosnia and Herzegovina, so, no, I don't have a signal where I live and I can't watch, but I'd very much like to look at some sports events that are broadcast by that television. However, this television about the members of this parliamentary assembly, as I have heard, because I am told by colleagues who can watch it never said anything positive about us. And there's nothing wrong with any other bodies like there's nothing wrong with nothing good happening here. I cannot believe such an assumption, and I would like the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to have control over part of it, not have to have in these technicals, committees, etc. More than 50%, it could be less than 50%, but it could be there. It's with all the public televisions in the world, why not Bosnia and Herzegovina as well. We are completely independent of everything, but mostly all the bodies in Bosnia and Herzegovina are independent of those directly elected by the people, of the others they are not. And I'd like the promoter to change this, otherwise I won't ask for a break to get the club set. I'll let the club members vote whatever they want, I'll probably be restrained. I am for one such law on the public radio television system, but here it's so bad it doesn't make sense to fix the amendments in such a short time. Perhaps it would be good if the motionor withdraws this law and makes it a better content. Thank you. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16531	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? If no one's answering for a word, please just in time. Mrs. Sopta, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16532	I thank Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I am the same for regular procedure when it comes to this law. Unlike my colleague Lagumdžija, I ask and claim that this matter should be governed by law. But I'm also saying that this law speaks of too important a right to be in a shortened procedure, especially when it's so badly prepared. On the side of the issue of those that hurt Hrvat and in this parliament and all the citizens of Hrvat in Bosnia and Herzegovina. To me, this law has so many other bad elements that simply one cannot believe that it is not going and that it does not tend to divide Bosnia and Herzegovina. Anyone who doesn't trust me will just look at Article 9 first item where the first item says that RTVBiH will be, will try to be available in all parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina. TV Federation to be available in the Federation area. TVRS in Republika Srpska. Honestly, I have so little information about Republika Srpska, and I'm happy when I come here and when I'm at a hotel, I only turn on the RS to know what's going on in that part of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And not just me, I think a lot of us are very little informed about who we are in the Federation, who are not available to that channel. Let's just say I can't catch that one in Herzegovina. I'm lucky that RTVBiH can, that BiH television can and can tell you that I'm more than disappointed with initial work, and how it will only be when we determine their positions by law, when they expect us to confirm the law, and how when they determine the positions of the law, what will be. That's why I think this is and how it deserves not only a regular procedure, but also a public debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16533	Please. Mr. Martin Raguž, vice president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16534	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable MPs, last time we held a debate, so I won't talk much about this law today, especially as it comes to the request for a procedure, of course I will join the members of our club in terms of the seriousness of this law and the necessity to ensure a quality debate in this House, especially when we know that this legislative proposal was concluded in the first attempt. What I can say by reading this law, those who have prepared this law last time obviously did not learn from a lesson from the split of its procedural 34 situation in this Parliament and again with a truly minimal correction wants to take place under the company's reform and the establishment of a public service to maintain the status quo and division of the media space and continue that, I would say the trend that this country is leading to the bottom of the European scales and that is why I have reported today and I want to re-warn again re-responsibly that one or the incompetence or indifference of a significant part of the international community is already seen here because under the company reform is actually concreteizing the existing situation and wants to maintain the status quo. I will really not support such an approach either individually or publicly or institutionally, and I want to clearly warn here that this law may be the most balanced example of such an approach. And while we are being sent messages from the most responsible multilateral institutions of the Council of Europe, we heard one yesterday, in the sixth month we had two resolutions concerning Bosnia and Herzegovina, while the European Parliament as the key and largest political and legislative institution of one Union and one space that we seek to base on long-term preparations for a resolution relating to the institutional and other legislative structures, where they clearly point to this limitation that we are showing more and more. Here, in the daily relationship between political forces, there are a number of issues that will be dealt with in part. This is such a sensitive and important question and I really won't say pain, I mean, we each need our emotions to keep to ourselves, but it's really sad that there's no strength or readiness within this relationship of strength to satisfy legitimate interests and that they're altering themselves into legislative proposals on the basis of the European conventions they're following. Nothing beyond that. Here I would especially like to underline anything beyond that. I have and then warned what will be the next procedure related to this law and no pressures and blackmails here are considered when this club is represented. Nicki in the sense of attitude. Maybe this law will be passed, and maybe it will all go away, but there will be one position recorded and legitimateized here for this speaker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16535	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? If no one is answering for a word anymore, I repeat, so we are pleading on the request of the Council of Ministers for the review of this emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104, it is actually a shortened procedure. So Article 104. I'm closing the debate. I urge you to prepare for your plea and vote now. Please follow what's done in the O.R. The president of the HDZ Club demands that the vote be renewed. I declare this previous vote invalid and we vote again on the procedure under Article 104 for this law. 35 Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 20 for, 4 against, 7 abstentions. He doesn't have most of the Federation. I'm not clear here either, I'm expressing my doubts about the results of this vote. Please, I urge the secretary to call the MPs and the MPs to plead that we know the exact vote, these two times. No, not that it didn't pass. Any of the MPs have any doubts. Have you checked his name? I'm asking the MPs, please nice, please nice. Please, it's okay. Okay. We're going to get a match. Martina, you're not in agreement, are you? Thus, the College did not achieve consent. We're going to the second round of voting. It says who's against it. Only those who are against it vote. Please, let those who vote against the procedure under Article 104 be prepared. Let him prepare. And vote now. - 6 is from the Federation v, Republika Srpska 1. So they don't have 2/3 against any entity and I find that a procedure under Article 104 for this law has been adopted. We move to the next fourth item of the agenda, that is, the A.4. request of the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a law on foreign affairs services, by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure and this legislative proposal were sent to Parliament on 9 February, and it was forwarded to you on 11 February 2005. This is also about the request for an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate. Does anyone want to talk? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina with 30 votes in favour of, 1 against and 1 abstention, with a sufficient entity majority accepted the procedure under Article 104 of the Law, the Proposal for a Law on Service for Foreign Affairs by Emergency Procedure, therefore in accordance with Article 104. 36 Moving to the fifth item of the agenda, that's Ad.5. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Purpose and Use of Part of Assets received by Bosnia and Herzegovina under the Agreement on Succession, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 104. We received the Rules of Procedure of the Proposal for this Law on 11 February 2005. It is the motion that the proposal for a law be considered by an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. The bill was sent to you by fax on February 11th. I'm opening a debate on the motion. If no one answers my word, I'll close the debate. We're moving on to a plea. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has mostly voted with 30 votes in favour of, 3 against, 1 abstention and with a sufficient entity majority accepted the request of the Council of Ministers for Procedure under Article 104 in relation to the Law on the Purpose and Use of Part of Assets received by Bosnia and Herzegovina under the agreement on the issue of succession. We're moving to the sixth item of the agenda. That's Ad.6. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act under an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the Proposal for Law were sent to Parliament on 11 February with a request to be adopted by an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. You received the bill on February 14th through college. You have seen that the proposal to amend the prefense period set by the Public Procurement Act, which is the period of 3 months in which the Agency for Public Procurement and the Office for the Review of Appeals were to begin and that within that time period, the Agency's competence would be carried out by the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury and the Office's dealings with complaints from the entity finance ministry. Therefore, the Members of Parliament are working on a prefonious deadline, so the Proposer proposes these amendments on an urgent procedure so that a three-month period of time does not create a legal vacuum in respect of the conduct of the tasks of the Agency for Public Procurement, or the Office for the Review of Appeals, since the conditions for the work of the Agency and the Office have obviously not been created. I'm opening a debate on the motion for an emergency procedure. Does anyone want to talk? 37 If no one answers, I'll close the argument. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina by majority vote, with 28 votes in favour, 1 against and 5 abstentions and with a sufficient entity majority, has respected the Council of Ministers' request that this law be discussed under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. We are now pleading to the law itself. Prepare to vote. There's a debate if you want, there is. Of course he does. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to discuss it? Mr. Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16536	...105th and of course I will be against this law. That's why I need even one formal reason. It is about breaking deadlines and none of the legislators being here to explain to Parliament what this delay means and why there was a delay in the formation of the agency? I'll be against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16537	I thank you, too. Anyone else want to talk? If no one answers their word anymore, I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina by majority vote, 26 for, 2 against 5 abstentions and with a sufficient entity majority, adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda, that's Ad.7. The proposal for a Law on Postings of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a second reading of the Post Law proposal, adopted the House's first reading at the 51st session. And this time I will remind you that the committee in charge has adopted 13 amendments. In the plenary phase, Izeg Hadžić submitted 3 amendments to the Commission's amendments. These amendments challenge amendments III, VI and VIII of the Commission on co-operation and communication. I remind you, we are considering the law or the bill in the second reading. So we're discussing the amendments. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Milorad Živković. Here you go. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16538	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to meet the House, since I have received information that the House of Nations adopted in the first reading of this law, but in a different form than we do here that in any case, however we vote for these amendments will be in a different text adopted by this law, so we will have to go to the Conciliation Commission. For this reason, I would ask the House to shorten the whole story about voting as we voted in our first reading. The reason is that I've collected the data they give for Doboy's right to be a center. Probably the Council of Ministers, too. If you want us to open the debate, here now that the amendments are being discussed, and we can't change anything in the end so that it's good to adopt in the second reading and then come to a consensus committee where it's supposed to be the headquarters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16539	Thank you. Who wants to talk any further? I'm closing the argument if no one answers the word. We're moving on to a statement on the amendments. Secretary, please give me the amendments. We declare the amendment and Mr Izet Hadžić. Prepare to vote and vote now. - 14 for, 13 against. He doesn't have most of them. Please. He has your vote, you voted against, that's how the Secretariat informs me. Are you asking for a re-election? Please, look out like this, there's one problem here. We can suddenly repeat the vote, but we shouldn't. I'm not saying it was in this case, but you shouldn't allow that sometimes if one of the MPs doesn't vote and not vote is a vote. Take care of what it's called about, because we're going to have to deal with this business, I mean, it's obvious as soon as possible. I declare this vote invalid at the request of the HDZ Club, and now we are again pleading on the amendment. Prepare to vote. Prepare to vote and vote now. Please, 16 for, 16 against, the amendment didn't get the required majority. We move to a statement on Amendment II of Mr Izet Hadžić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 15 for 15 against, even this amendment didn't get the necessary majority. 39 We move to a statement on amendment III to Mr Izet Hadžić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 15 for 16 against, even this amendment didn't get the necessary majority. And we've completed our statement on the amendments. We're pleading against the law. I invite you to prepare to vote on the law. Prepare to vote and vote now. We're voting for the law now. - 21 for, 11, v, 2 contained, 8 Federation, 13 Republika Srpska. There's not a lot of the Federation. The law doesn't have an entity majority from the Federation. We're going for a counter-report. So we're voting now on those who are against the law. Let him prepare for the vote, since the College has not agreed. Those who are against should prepare and vote now. So 13 against the Federation, it's less than 2/3, and I find that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parlametary Assembly's House of Representatives adopted the proposal for a Law on the Postales of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're going to the eighth point of the agenda. That's Ad.8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the first reading of the Proposal for a Law to Parliament was submitted on 29 December 2004 with a request from the Council of Ministers to be considered by an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 104. It's the rules of procedure at home. A proposal was adopted at the 50th session on 12 January 2005. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 17 January 2005. The committee's report, which is again the Constitutional and Legal Commission, was given to us on 31 January 2005. As you have seen from the report, the Constitutional and Legal Commission found that there were no amendments in the commission phase and that it accepted the draft law in the proposed text. I'm opening a debate on the law in my first reading. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. We're voting on the law in first reading. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, mostly 32 votes for, without prejudice, 2 abstentions and with a sufficient entity majority, passed this law in the first reading. 40 I suggest we go to another reading. Let's make sure we're up for second reading. We're pleading whether we're up for second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has adopted 33 votes in favour of one abstention and with a sufficient entity majority to go to another reading. I'm opening a debate in my second reading of this law. Anybody want to talk? There was no amendment. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a statement on the law in the second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 33 for, no problem, one abstention, enough entity majority. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. Moving to the ninth point of the Ad.9 agenda. Proposal for a law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the first reading of the proposal for this law to Parliament also delivered on 29 December 2004. This is where the promoter didn't ask for an emergency procedure. We are therefore considering it in a regular procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered an opinion on 17 January 2005. The Commission’s report, i.e. We received the Constitutional and Legal Commissions on 15 February 2005. As you have seen, the Commission adopted 37 amendments and corrected certain printing errors in the legislative proposal. At the plenary stage, we didn't have any amendments. I'm opening a debate on the proposal for this law in the first reading. Who wants to talk? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the law in first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16540	These are laws on which it's not good to have amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16541	I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina with 33 votes in favour, without a vote against, with one abstention and with a sufficient entity majority, has adopted this law in the first reading. 41 Since there were no amendments, I suggest we make a statement, are we to go to another reading? Prepare to vote. We're voting on whether this house is in the mood to go to another reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. May I have your attention, please? I find that the House of Representatives with 27 for, 2 against and 3 abstentions and with a sufficient entity majority decided to go to another reading when it comes to this law. May I have your attention, please? I'm opening a debate on the law in the second reading. No one's answering for a word. No one's answering for a word. I'm closing the debate. We move to a plea in the second reading of the law on the execution of criminal sanctions in detention and other measures in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives with 29 votes in favour and one against, 2 abstentions and with a sufficient entity majority passed the Law on the execution of criminal sanctions on detention and other measures in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I thank you. We're going to the tenth point of the agenda, that's A.10. The Joint Commission's report on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina was held today by the Commission. You have received a report from the Commission. The Commission has reached agreement. You've received a report. The amendment agreed unanimously as explained in the report itself. I'm opening a debate. If no one answers my word, I'll close the debate. We are moving on to a statement on the Commission's report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina with 32 votes in favour, without against and one contained, with a sufficient entity majority, adopted a report by the Commission on the effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which adopted this law in this House. Thank you very much. 42 Moving to the 11th point of the agenda, that's Ad.11. (a) Information on all current and future missions of members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces with the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy Report and under (b) Information on the participation of police officers in peacekeeping missions with the Joint Defence and Security Policy Report You have received information from this agenda point, you have also received a report from our Joint Defence and Security Policy Commission on this information. I'm opening a debate on this information. Does anyone want to talk? Mr. Beriz Belkić. We're talking about both information, so. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16542	So, first of all, this information is inaccurate to me. It came to Parliament on 11.11., and hence some recommendations here indicated stopped being current, because in the meantime we also passed the Law, etc. The report itself is at least more like a kind of statistical report to me, because we have a practical assessment of the Commission which practically gave no opinion at all, but said she received knowledge and something like that in that sense. Namely, what is my basic remark. The reports themselves are practically undefined and cannot identify the contents of the mission. What our people down there are practically doing and under what circumstances, what the hell is going on down there? In fact, only the expression is used and you can only gleam from military observers, and what they're looking at, who they're looking at, what's going on down there, an absolute man can't conclude. So we should still draw out a kind of political, or a kind of real assessment that we know in what conditions and what our people down are doing practically. So you have no way of understanding and seeing the effects of these participations, etc. When it comes to, that's, I'm saying this is about these missions that were and were under way, and when it comes to future missions here, I think of Iraq there's an interesting world, it started out of information by dates with military contingents in order to bring about a contigence for the destruction of unexploded killings. It is practically just a question of my own – whether the new law is practically now within which further actions will be carried out and whether this mission is at all, it is very difficult to conclude from the information whether it is gone, probably because it is not current. But unfortunately, here's no processors, so I don't insist we discuss what I've been saying, because we just don't have a MEO representative who might be able to explain things here. Thank you. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16543	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16544	I'd just like to say very briefly. The fresh memories of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are of the tragedy our peoples have been through in this country. I think I share 99% of the country's population's opinion that they were looking forward to seeing international forces to be of use to us so as not to kill each other anymore. I will also always stand for where we can contribute to peace and where we can benefit from those who cannot resolve their conflicts differently to benefit from me and the representatives of this country so that these peoples can find and come to peace. This information, I believe, I will agree with the distinguished representative Belkić, probably in that part and in that segment and its lack. But I also support this opportunity by supporting everything that Bosnia and Herzegovina and its people will participate in contributing to a peaceful solution to disputes in the world.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16545	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Ladies and gentlemen, we are receiving this information and I suggest, therefore, the conclusion that the House of Representatives took note of this information. Prepare to vote on this conclusion and vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina with 29 votes in favour, without against and two abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority adopted this conclusion, which took note of this two information. Thank you. Moving to the 12th point of the agenda, that's Ad.12. Information from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of Parliament's conclusion on amendments and additions to the Excise Act to be prepared by 31 January 2005 This agenda item was adopted on the proposal by Mr Zlatko Lagumdžija. Does the Council of Ministers have any information? There may be, but there are no representatives of the Council of Ministers here. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I propose that this House take the obligation to make this item of the agenda a part of the agenda of the first next session, and to write today a letter to the Council of Ministers to look for that information for the first next session. Please, I, mind you, here, please, please, so this is information from the Council of Ministers, we have no 44 information, and I suggest that today the House be appointed, that this be the point of the agenda of the next session and that a letter be sent to the Council of Ministers today and request written information. I'm opening a debate on the proposal for my conclusion. Mr. Lagumdžija, then Mr. Novaković, come in. Sir, Zlatko Lagumdžija, please. I give the word here, now you have the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16546	I assumed that someone in this ruling structure would give me the opening remarks on behalf of the Council of Ministers if they were gone. As far as I'm concerned, I could give you some opening remarks, that's no problem. It does not need to be spectacularly smart to see that the opening remarks would only show us that it was a brutal violation of the conclusions of this same House, that it was a big scam involving the Council of Ministers and both homes, at the end of December when the Act on Excises was passed before the end of the year, when the law was adopted, which concluded that on January 31st, 01.01. was amended by the Act on Excises, in accordance with what we were then saying, because it was necessary to have for such a time. I think your conclusion, Mr. Chairman, is quite correct, but I think we should supplement it a little bit. I think that today the House should be determined by one conclusion to the fact that the Council of Ministers has failed to fulfil its commitment by this House. That's one thing. And that this House, if it isn't already the Council of Ministers, has found it appropriate for us to come here, then this House will conclude that the law that we have referred to in Parliament's procedure will, preferably, be reduced by deadlines and that, as soon as possible, it will be concluded by the Finance Commission or by the competent authorities as soon as possible with the bill already in front of us, because it is in the procedure, that the deadlines are reduced and that the College assumes the obligation to play an active role because every day here has its very calculated price per citizen of this country. And to conclude, therefore, that we make a commitment to the Finance Commission and ourselves, preferably to cut deadlines, then let the Council of Ministers commit themselves to including it either with a new law or with an amendment to what we have already proposed. There you go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16547	Thank you, Mr. Momčilo Novaković, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16548	I thank the chairman, just to say that first I express my disappointment that we did not receive information from the Council of Ministers and also, to say that by not voting to put this on the agenda, and I did not vote to put it on the agenda, I actually wanted to point out the seriousness of the promoter to be put on the agenda of the information that is not available. And this isn't the first time we put information on the agenda when we're not sure we'll get it during the session. 45 I would ask my colleagues to indeed when it comes to supplementing the agenda, at least when it comes to information we discuss and put on the agenda the information we received or for which we have certain guarantees that we will at least get in the course of the session. I fully agree with Mr Lagumdžija that the Council of Ministers has accepted the obligation, that it has failed to carry out that obligation, that we should warn him to execute it, although I think it has already become degutantly our warning and repetition of the already reached conclusions, recommendations, suggestions, etc. etc. So, I'm inclined to support the Chairman's proposal to get that information at the next session, but I think whatever it is, we at this point in procedure have laws proposed by the SDP Club and therefore, every story about some laws by the Council of Ministers makes very little sense. For this reason, we really do not understand why Mr Lagumdžija suggested putting this on the agenda, if he was first aware that three laws concerning these issues under the SDP Club proposal were discussed on the Constitutional and Legal Commission and established their constitutional basis. So, the information and if we had it wouldn't have helped solve this particular issue, except of course we would have expressed our dissatisfaction because it wasn't the Council of Ministers but had to do the SDP Club or it doesn't matter, this time the SDP Club, another time. So, I'm going to support the Chairman's proposal, although I don't think he makes any sense either, because we have laws in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16549	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Sead Avdić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16550	I would just like to say that the Council of Ministers' behaviour in a situation that is serious for the country of BiH, in the context of the application of the Excise Act that we adopted and which we have committed one conclusion by the Council of Ministers to propose an emergency law on the amendment of the Excise Act, has not been granted objectively and has already been practically a month late as a whole. Which means, it's unfortunate that the SDP intervenes with its laws, that the Council of Ministers does not find the possibility of actually doing its part of the job at this time, unfortunately, really. And unfortunately, we're trying to make a correspondence with the Council of Ministers. I beg Mr. Chairman, there's no need for us to write to the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers has been elected by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, from the House of Representatives, and I propose that no point of the agenda be discussed in the future, unless there is a rapporteur on behalf of the Council of Ministers. If there is no rapporteur on behalf of the Council of Ministers, otherwise we interrupt the session and we will continue next time. It's the only way to give parole, roughly speaking, to discipline the Council of Ministers. 46 I ask you to start acting more properly, simply in this Pralement. Really, so I suggest that if there is no rapporteur on behalf of the Council of Ministers, no resolutional ministry, we are not considering that law. It's quite simple, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16551	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? If no one answers their word anymore, I'm closing the debate. I've offered you a conclusion. If I have to repeat it, then it is said that the House undertakes that at the next session, the first next session will be the item of the agenda, and until then information on this matter will be requested from the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16552	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16553	You didn't get your word to Mr. Avdić and please sit down, you didn't get your word, please nice what's there, what doesn't have to be decided by this House, you don't think there's any correspondence, you have the right to think, but let others say what they think and it will be the way most people think. May I have your attention, please? The agenda item is the Council of Ministers' Information. Someone needs to ask for information from the Council of Ministers. I didn't ask, because the session is ongoing, the session is under way. This morning it was on the agenda. I don't know if anyone heard from the Council of Ministers' representatives and brought that news to the Council of Ministers. That's why I suggested we look for information in writing. Please, here's the secretary informing me, I'm not, so the services have informed the Council of Ministers and that you have that information. Please, I'm making a suggestion. I've concluded the debate. Please, Mr. Jozo Križanović wanted something else. Here you go, Jozo, but keep an eye on when the debate is over, so that we don't discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16554	I would ask Mr. Chairman, in the future, that we have no misunderstandings like we had last time, when I also asked for a word. So, I didn't answer for the hearing, I'm reporting on the proposal for your conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16555	I've concluded the debate and for that, please proceed. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16556	So, I'm speaking, on the grounds of your proposal for a conclusion. It would be really bad if today this House of Representatives, respecting all these circumstances and practice so far, ignored by the Council of Ministers towards this House, that we simply conclude that at the next session we will pray again and ask for information from the Council of Ministers. I suggest that, in view of the inclusion in the agenda, these points, which we have neither written information nor any of the Council of Ministers, tell us three too many sentences as to what is meant by the conclusion of the House or their obligation when it comes to the Excise Act. Is it a lot to ask this House to come and say five sentences about it?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16557	When?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16558	Today. Therefore, if that is not possible, and it seems impossible, I ask that this House, again, no matter how effective or significant it is, again express its disdain for the Council of Ministers' position, according to this House, so we will see... Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16559	Mr. Lagumdžija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16560	Quite naturally, I'm joining the previous debaters. I'd like to ask Mr. Chairman, that since I'm making a proposal for a concrete conclusion, I'd like you to set yourself up according to that conclusion. In fact, if we can make a commitment, to conclude today, that at the next session of the House of Representatives, we have the first reading of this law. These laws were given to us. The Commission can do it by then, and then we will, if nothing, I guess that law will make someone come, tell us whether it's okay or if it's an amendment that works on us or if it offers its own, then you knock down this one of ours, that the other one comes. If we can conclude at the next session that the agenda point is these three laws. And that's a very, very good reason for people to come by, to see what it's all about. Well, the commission's coming, certainly passed the Constitutional and Legal Commission, with Ljilja on board,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16561	Let me get out while you two get out of here, shall we? Is that okay? Will you do that? Please don't, I'm begging you, don't give us any more warning. Come on, let's watch 48 sessions, don't have a dialogue while we have a session. If you need a break, you'll get a break. Mrs. Seada Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16562	Let me say that, to repeat the conclusion that we had in the past sessions, it would be pointless, because at the session of the 3rd, we asked the Council of Ministers for information, or did it by the College, however, someone did, when they asked for an extension of the deadline and I think it would really be pointless now to commit that at the first next session, we will again seek a conclusion, just as it would be pointless to commit that we will have SDP law at first reading. My proposal is now to end the debate at point 12, to leave it last, to discuss the other points, and to invite representatives of the Council of Ministers to introduce us to this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16563	Thank you. Mr. Nenad Mišić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16564	Perhaps I rarely report, to solve the problem in two minutes, I suggest that the chairman put his conclusion to the vote. If it doesn't pass, then we'll go the other way.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16565	And, watch out, ladies and gentlemen MPs, I, as chairman, am obliged to sum up the debate and to offer conclusions which are the result of the debate and one of those conclusions was my proposal, however, I am not a man who stubbornly insists on his proposals if something smarter than my assessment appears here in the House. I am willing to acknowledge everything that is smarter and try to define the smartest solution that would cover all possible proposals and satisfy as many MPs as possible in Parliament. So, here I am going to offer a solution again. It seems to me after this discussion, Mr. Vinko Zorić, asking for a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16566	I just want to say briefly that the HDZ Club supports the conclusion that the chairman adopted and I don't think we should waste any time on this. We will probably spend it at the next session, because the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Law should also be used by BiH and we insisted on it, and then we will talk about it because there is really nothing we can do today. And, uh, you have that full support of this club that, uh, 49
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16567	I think at the end of the session, we'll end up in the same situation we're in right now. We can leave it for the end of the session, and eventually it will end this way again. Mr. Kunić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16568	Gentlemen, should we take this problem a little bit more seriously? Why am I saying that? For the reason that a number of problems appear in practice already. You have in Banja Luka to stand peddlers, trucks for reasons that can't be recognized by the law or, the law is incomprehensible, you can't determine excise, tax. We will soon have guessed, at Parliament and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on indirect taxation. It's a law that's been broken out of the system. It's not compatible with the system and it's almost impossible to implement it in practice. These two things are very serious and would have to be dealt with by the Council of Ministers, of course in co-operation with these administrations. We have a situation where the Board of Directors of Direct Taxation has been ordered by the Council of Ministers in certain situations. It's incompatibility to the press, it can't work like that. It's supposed to be in order. The Council of Ministers should form expert bodies that understand these matters and propose amendments and additions to those laws. Either we accept the fact that this director, or I don't know the board president dictates this situation to us and we have so many losses for such trucks standing there, which can't be customsed for 15, 20, 30 days because they don't know the people in that area give them an answer. This is a very serious situation, and I agree with your proposal, to seriously warn the Council of Ministers about the seriousness of this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16569	I thank Mr. Kunić. Who else wants to talk? So, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am fully aware of the problem we are discussing and the implications this issue produces daily in practice, in everyday life. I am aware of the fact that we need to settle this issue as soon as possible, but I ask you to take care of the decisions we make and the possibility of making the decisions that we make. Today we're on the agenda, we're on the point of information from the Council of Ministers. In the session break, the sekretarijat of parlament informed the Council of the Ministers that it was the 12th item of the agenda. Today, or today, here in the O.R., we don't have a representative to submit that information to us. And the only thing that I think is logical, after all these discussions, and yet to take care of the decisions that we make, so that they can be realized, I actually only had that possibility to suggest. The first next session will be at the beginning of March of the month, to suggest that this be the point of the agenda, and that the Council of Ministers should be written a letter, that we should be determined today, within the framework of this conclusion, to request written information from the Council of Ministers and 50 solutions to this problem that we have discussed at the previous sessions, and what are the conclusions of our commission that are undeniable for this House because this House has been determined. And for that reason, I'm putting this proposal to the House. I invite you to prepare for the vote and vote now. I said now. As you wish, that's your business. I find that the House of Representatives, with 27 votes in favour of, 2 against and 4 abstentions, and with a sufficient entity majority, adopted this conclusion, to make this a mandatory point of the next House session and to write a letter to the Council of Ministers asking for written information and to warn of an urgent solution to this issue. Of course, I'll put everything to a vote, say, just repeat what your second conclusion is. We adopted this one.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16570	.... that, at the next session of Parliament, we also have a proposal for these laws that we gave in the first reading, and that until then, when we conclude that, by then, the Management Board and the Council of Ministers will also make themselves do just something, which is a little more than this binding conclusion which is obviously optional to them.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16571	Yes, here's Mr. Lagumdžija if you're done, I thank you. Here, I've got an interpretation, so here I'm reading from the secretary, reading, so there's no business possibility of cutting deadlines, the law has entered the regular procedure. This is what's written. But there's something else that can be done about this meeting, so this, and all in the face of solving the problem. And that is, to put in charge of our commission, so we have a commission, please be careful, to task our commission to monitor this issue, so until the next session and in contact, to be in contact with the IRS and the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury, or the Council of Ministers, so that we may have something more concrete than information here in Parliament at that time. So let's make our commission active in solving this problem. I can't tell you what the commission needs to do right now, but the ultimate goal is to have the law as soon as possible here in Parliament. Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16572	I think we're practically skipping one dimension when it comes to the procedure in this area of indirect taxation. I mean, I'm absolutely up for us to rush the commission as fast as we can and do the job and get everything that's up to the commission, to get it done as soon as possible and to actually go into procedure. However, there is a obligation, we 51 have had an interpretation etc. there is an obligation to make any changes, additions, etc. from the area of indirect taxation must go first to the Management Board, in order to get an opinion, etc. So we have a closed circle and we will face it very quickly, we have discussed on the Constitutional-Law Commission the constitutionality of this whole provision, we will face one closed circle, where we can practically not launch the initiative or anything until we agree with the Governing Board of the Direct Taxation Board. Therefore, if the Administration assesses that the proposed change and supplement project is not based on some of their criteria, etc. They will not give consent and we can go to Parliament. We are in a terrible problem when it comes to the relationship between the Governing Board of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16573	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. That is, of course, another confirmation of what I am talking about here all the time, but I don't think it would mind that Parliament, it could only help, so I want to say that this would be more serious if I could use that term, if we could reach a conclusion that we would ask our commission, that, in contact with the Department of Direct Taxation and the Council of Ministers, this legislative amendment would be ensured as soon as possible in the BiH Parliament. So ensure the coming of the law to the BiH Parliament, the coming of the law to Parliament, the coming of a solution to the BiH Parliament that we will discuss. Mr. Lagumdžija, can you accept, since you're on this conclusion, I'm trying to do something that would be on the trail of both the law and the jurisdiction that individual authorities have, and that would be enforceable, what I'm proposing right now. If you've listened to me, I've listened twice.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16574	And you asked me to tell you again, even though you were listening to me, you just want to make it clear now, that we might, that there is no misunderstanding between you and me, there is and unnecessary if we at least hear from each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16575	Well, I don't think so. Here you go, Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16576	I'd just like to explain. So, the conclusion that we had last time, when they asked for another 15 days, to carry out consultations with us, we acted on that conclusion, we asked for a term, now we asked for it in writing, so it was written, so it's urgent, where we say we want an urgent meeting of the Commission with the Management Board. We said it had to be the most urgent, so Monday or Tuesday. We expect them to, I don't see the point now that we're sending them 52 telegrams again, because we sent it, and they said they'd let us know what term might be optimal. I mean, that means the conclusions in that direction can't help us. The meeting is expected to bring forward proposals for amending this law. Now, evaluate whether it is necessary to conclude the subject again. I just want to get to know you about it. So, so far, a few terms have been offered, we couldn't agree with the termites, now it's said to be the beginning of next week. And it's not a disputed meeting, it's just a term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16577	Okay, thanks. Then I draw this conclusion, if this was like this, it doesn't make any sense. Mr. Lagumdžija, we're going back to your proposal. According to the Rules of Procedure, there is no possibility of a deadline being shortened, as the law has entered into the regular procedure. And I'm giving you the answer to that question, so we can't even put it to a vote, because it's not a business matter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16578	It's not just about shortening the procedure. It is the obligation of the House to oblige the Finance Commission to prepare a first reading proposal for the next House session. And if the Board of Directors goes deaf, and they won't talk to us at all, then, you know, in that case I'm telling you, we're going to come out with a bill that makes it impossible for the board of directors to make it impossible. I mean, we can't do that. Here, let's say now fine, normally suggest to people,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16579	May I have your attention, Mr. Lagumdžija, thank you, therefore,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16580	I'm not asking for a deadline, a date... for two, this, that, no problem, but let's conclude that at the next session we have a agenda point, these laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16581	Please, Mr. Lagumdžija, will you sit down? You're not looking for deadline cuts, but you're looking for, wait a minute, but you're not asking for deadline cuts, and then you're descriptively asking for deadline cuts, because you're saying we're going to charge the Commission to prepare a first-reading law for the next session, and that's a deadline reduction, and that's past the procedure, because the next session will be the beginning of March of the month. I want what I conclude not to break here alone, please nice, here's the procedure. Please, Secretary, if I have to, I'll have the secretary explain the procedure. There are deadlines because the law is in regular procedure. 53 Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, by adopting this conclusion, with a letter from the Council of Ministers and with the pre-determined commitments of the Finance Commission and the Budget of this Paralment, let it continue to implement its obligations, and I advertise that we have completed the 12th item of the agenda of today's session. We're moving to the 13th item of the session agenda, that's Ad.13. A report on the audit of the Agency for Labour and Employment with the Commission's Report on Finance and Budget You are ladies and gentlemen MPs, received a report on the review of the BiH Agency for Labour and Employment for 2003, which was submitted to Parliament on 2 November 2004. You also received a report from our Finance Commission and the budget on the review of this Audit Report. In addition to the recommendations made by all budget users, the Finance and Budget Commission has proposed to the House to adopt the following recommendations in relation to the Agency for Labour and Employment. 12. 11 there, it is urgent to conduct the selection procedure of the Director of the Agency, 13. Establish the Advisory Committee, 14. End the implementation of the law, the records on the acquisition of the BiH Employment Institute's assets, and form an initial balance and 15. An urgent solution to the status of the funds recovered from the Employment Service and to determine the purpose of their use. I am opening a debate on the report on the audit of the Agency for Labour and Employment with the report of the competent commission of this House. Mr. Beriz Belkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16582	I'm going to be very brief on behalf of the Finance and Budget Commission, I've made a quick, one-stop-shop with the president. In fact, I have done a little bit more in the internal division on this report, so I am obliged to report to Parliament that, in the meantime, from the moment we did this report, we have had communication with the Agency which presented a particular documentation from which it is apparent that certain things that have been formulated here have been formulated, formulated as a lack in some way solved, especially when it comes to point 2 where there is talk of failures made to hand over equipment, archives, money, etc. They had the ex-post and additional work of the Council of Ministers Commission, which worked on the list of assets and the acquisition of assets, which had finally defined the two disputed items, i.e. clearly defined them and was now on the Council of Ministers to make the relevant decisions and the minutes would then be fully implemented. In particular, it is one position, i.e. the assets of the former BiH Employment Service of 279 000, which were in the account of the National Bank of BiH, which went into liquidation, or bankruptcy, etc. And those funds were in some kind of bankruptcy. The Bureau has never written them off, hoping that eventually this, 54 bankruptcy masses, etc. Get those funds out. Unfortunately, however, this did not happen, and then the Agency took over those funds without a clear description and status as to what to do next with these funds. Of course, the Agency does not have the authority to decide this should be decided by the Council of Ministers. They're very interesting and interpreting this, I don't know why this is a revision at the end, and it took as a drawback when it comes to budgetary user status. Budgetary user status can be obtained through one coordinated action, i.e. by means of a budget law, etc. And these are things that are out in a way that the Agency has reached. The truth about the Agency's will should continue to insist on solving and, most of all, to cut short, I see that it is already impatient, in 2005, most likely or the fact that the Agency has already entered and received the status of a Buddhist user, so it will be removed and will be included in this IT system that exists at the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, which so far has not been able to enter. This desire thing, however, does this, people from the Agency who have tried to present certain documents and evidence that goes in the direction of saying, somewhat correcting these shortcomings. As for the recommendations, the recommendations remain as proposed here. The selection of directors is ongoing, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16583	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. Who else wants to talk? ________? So who's VD?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16584	Sarić, also has a deputy, the Council of Ministers appointed him.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16585	I thank Mr. Belkić, please, thank you, Mr. Belkić. Who else wants to talk? Mrs. Ruža Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16586	I thank Mr. Chairman, however, I'm a little confused by this now, here's the old report that we've been considering on the committee, but I'm also surprised that the audit here gave an opinion with the reserve. When you look at these conclusions, this is enough for a negative opinion. As far as I've gotten the information, they've given their opinion with the reserve, just because it's a young agency that's just being set up, but which has no right either she or the Council of Ministers to be all VD forever. So it's set up by regulation but it's not essentially set up in reality. 55 The second thing, it was about 5 million assets that, the funding of the Employment Service,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16587	Amma, please let me hear from you, continue, Mrs. Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16588	And it's very important to define those 5 million whose are and how they are and that it's a shame to stand for a year, two days on someone's account untapped. From what I've heard, from the discussions and from our commission by the representatives of the Ministry and the representatives of this agency, it's about the funds most likely made by the Department of Employment of County and Canton and which should be transferred in that direction. What we have to do is, what we have to do with the billing, and ask, perhaps, as a matter of priority, for the revision to determine whether or not something has happened and whether or not it's the property of the former Employment Service that isn't listed. So we're told that not all of them are listed and not included in the balance sheet of this agency. Is something done in the meantime, possible because Mr Belkić was in charge of the Commission to prepare this report to the commission but I mean, one institution that we have formed, that there are so many shortcomings, that it is indeed our shame. I pray colleagues to read these here bold, black conclusions of the review, especially as the correspondence between the Agency and the audit was little can be said uncultural, as far as business culture is concerned, or they did not respect each other. And that's why I think we should ask for the opinion of the review, very quickly because it's about the institution that's being set up, that fills the number of employees there, no one knows how to receive or receive anyone, because the deadlines for the VD are known to come out after that, and then people, if certain deadlines, become permanent employees, by law enforcement. I can't be VD anymore. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16589	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr Ivo Miro Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16590	Before today's session began, we had a heated debate and these days in public, about this law that we had offered on behalf of the Administrative Commission. All this time I've been claiming, and now I can confirm that we're not in the same position, the users of the State Budget. So why is this report even being sent to us, if we can't change that report, if we can find that here in a brief summary of the proposals that have been presented by the audit and found, and even for the uninformed, it would appear that the audit house or people who have been working on the audit have found one thing and recommend the other. Nothing to do with anything. It confuses me. To what end and why is that, and this isn't the first time. Everything we've received this year, the review report, the audit of these houses that have been audited by agencies, 56 institutions, etc. They're crawling with some irregularities. And the proposals for their resolution of speeches should, perhaps, if so, etc. There's no explicitity, there's no commanding tone, to fix business, to threaten, why don't you say so, to do it on a limb and change the situation it's in. I'm just saying that, offered by today's debate, at this point in the agenda on the rights and obligations we had. Here, you see, for which I am a keen advocate for solving all budget users' issues. I don't think we're in the same position, that this isn't good. We will adopt the budget by the year as well as this year, and we will not be able to influence how this budget in agencies and institutions is spent, who is responsible for them, how it is responsible, and the revisan houses will only be established, and it will all end. And they'll have four salaries like us.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16591	Thank you, Petar Kunić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16592	And here we meet an absurd government in the institutions of the state. Now we've heard from Mrs. Sopta that we don't even know the list of the Agency's funds, etc. Downloading, transmission. In fact, it is a matter of the Council of Ministers to take care of these matters, i.e. the Agency must be part of a ministry. Please, the Agency can't be out of the system. It is in the management of the hierarchical structure either under the authority of a ministry or under direct authority of the Council of Ministers. We don't have it here, I've talked about it before, and I don't want to be boring. We have a series of institutions that aren't connected to anyone, they make their own decisions, so we have salaries like this because it's the agencies that determine their own wages. We need to install into the system, the management system of that agency, then we won't have these situations, we won't meet with these things as we are now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16593	Mr. Beriz Belić, thank you, Mr. Kunić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16594	....things and simply not to conclude this point with false impressions and insufficiently informed, if you have followed me, and if you have looked at this, so I am talking about the Commission report that relied on the Audit Report, etc. and this report is the result and some communication with the Agency, which is common. So if you compare downs, so a brief summary of the revision, and these bold points with the recommendations, you'll see that they're absolutely synchronised. I've tried the opening notes, so I'm not entering the pay area, I'm not entering the pay area, we've all said that's the thing that needs to be arranged, etc. I was talking about these findings, and I tried to explain, when it comes to the acquisition of funds, equipment, etc., the former BiH Employment Office had done the work of the Council of Ministers' Commission. She finished it but not entirely. In the meantime, since the audit on here, the job has been completed. I've explained what's going on. It is two paragraphs 57 which have not been fully clarified and have been recorded as requests in the records, in the Agency’s records as downloaded. I wasn't talking about 5 million, but I said there are recommendations left between which is the last one that speaks, urgently resolve the status of the use of those funds. This cannot be done by the Agency, neither can the Advisory Committee nor the VD, it must be done by the Council of Ministers. If you looked at the report, you saw that all the recommendations were addressed to the Council of Ministers, that the report was addressed to the Council of Ministers. That VD can't put himself there as a director. The Council of Ministers must implement the procedure by law. It cannot decide whether it will be a budgetary user or not, for a simple reason, because the Agency was not included in 2003 or 2004 in the budgetary user and could not obtain the status. She could not enter the IC system of computer processing, etc., because she was not a budget user. I only intended not to be the attorney of this agency, I absolutely belong to all of you, that this revision must be taken more seriously, etc. But I'm telling the truth. So I recommend that this report be adopted. And I said in the beginning, with the recommendations that are going to the Council of Ministers, that the problem of the Director is finally solved, to resolve the matter of the consultation committee's procedure, because projects and programmes cannot be done without an advisory committee that needs to assess that, suggestions, where, to support the programme etc., to end the implementation of this minutes, because once again the implementation of the minutes is not completed if someone does not make a decision, so it does not say, the former claims or, once the money in the National Bank of BiH have failed, it is written off, the VD Director can't do so, it must the Council of Ministers. And that's why it's like a recommendation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16595	Thank you, too. Who wants to move on? Let's do more, shall we? Here you go, Mrs. Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16596	I would just, since Mr. Belkić was turned around and we always had a feeling, points out to me. I just wanted to underline exactly that, exactly that, that these things and to point out that it's not really about some small funds, that it's about 5 million that stand for more than a year if not two, that it's about the facilities. All right, and go to the Council of Ministers and have our conclusion be at that moment, that this should be resolved as soon as possible, because someone can't be a VD in the middle of nowhere. Six months tops, he can't go on forever, because after that he uses other rights. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16597	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Vinko Zorić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16598	I'd say if we were to make a conclusion, here's the ruža mention of this, and some part or suggestion of a conclusion, then I'd like to get a report from that agency about the work. I don't care what they do. Given the title they're called, I'm really interested in what they're doing, and if 58 of them were doing this, I'd ask myself, and I wouldn't suggest anything to this House, I'd never pick these people who are VD now, because if they were doing this badly, then I'd pick them as directors, and I don't know at all, I'd question all these agencies. I know, when we're passing laws on these agencies, then the most attention is to where the seat is, etc. I'm opening up suspicions here, the needs of some of those agencies that only spend money. So here you see, there lies the money, I've heard the same thing from the cult, that's half the money of the canton, half the RS, and now this one, there lies 5 million marks, which is the annual budget of the Parliamentary Assembly, and we're crucified everywhere. There's no media, the most local or this one, the state's so that it doesn't crucify us that we've been spending. And someone out there gets some money and no one can. I am interested, and I suggest that, in conclusion, if we make it, that this agency submits a report to this Parliamentary Assembly, that we see what they were doing last year as VD. Did they do anything except pay and spend money?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16599	I thank Mr. Vinko Zorić. Mr. Beriz Belkić, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16600	So I want to explain, or replicate. Not some funding, but 5 million Circa were raised in the Federation of BiH by the Employment Office, following then existing employment laws as prescribed. So it's history, those funds. On the means, it can only be decided by the Council of Ministers or this Parliament. That's obvious. Whether to go towards cantons, whether to go to new programs, whether to go to budgets, that's the decision-making thing. So, I just wanted to explain some things. As for the report, the Council of Ministers is obliged to submit a report to this Parliament and the agency and commission, so why not, and so is he. No problem at all, I absolutely support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16601	Mr. Sead Avdić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16602	I just want to say a few words. I've been working with this agency for the purpose of preparing this Labour Act, which was timely in the parliamentary procedure and has not passed but some information just to say. The situation is that as far as I know, how much information I have, and it's been established by this Advisory Committee recently as I know, and it's come to life. Secondly, the appointment of a eviction officer, i.e. the appointment of the Director of this Agency before the Council of 59 Ministers, has been waiting seven months and this is not really the responsibility of the Agency itself. And in this context, surely these funds are under the control of the Treasury Ministry, so it is not at their disposal or able to dispose of these funds, which means these few information simply partially relax such a simple, harsh statement, i.e. attitude and revisions, etc. And I would fully support my colleague Zorić. That we give the Council of Ministers at this stage of implementation and the establishment of new agencies, that report which is the stage of implementation of new legislative projects that speak of the establishment of agencies, administrations, etc. We need this to assess the real level of implementation and functioning of these institutions. This institution is precious and crucial for BiH and in this context, it certainly fits into all these other institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16603	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk? Is there anyone else? So no one's answering for a word anymore. I'm closing the debate. We have two suggestions here. I think we can put it together in one. So two proposals for conclusions, what we got from our commission, so to adopt this report on the revision of the Employment Agency with a proposal for measures 12,13,14 and 15 proposed by the Commission and with the conclusion of the House to request a report on work in the past year, as proposed by Mr Vinko Zorić
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16604	If I could have a word with the chairman?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16605	You've got it, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16606	E, so I propose that the Council of Ministers consider the degree of implementation, means the legislative project and the laws established by the new agencies, administrations, etc. And give us a report on the level of implementation and life, or survival of those agencies and administrations. There you go. Nothing else. Not just on this, but on all the facilities, really, yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16607	Yes, here you go, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16608	Here, I first picked up the phone from the scene, it's not okay, but I can't follow you, you mention 13, 14, I don't have it. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16609	12, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16610	But I follow when you read the text about this at the bottom. Yeah, but I suggest that, uh, I accept, of course, what Sead was saying but especially for this agency, because I would like, the vault can no longer decide about that 5 million. The vault decides on the budget. The budget was adopted. I, as I understand it now, and thank you this, Mr. Belkić, for replicating it to me, that these are the funds of the canton and there the funds should be given. Can't from the Federation part of this,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16611	I really don't know what to do anymore, except start taking steps on the Rules of Procedure if this continues. That would be very ugly and please, here we go again. Mr. Belkić, I beg you,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16612	Okay, I'm asking to request a report on the Agency's work and then, then I'll probably have a concrete conclusion, what with these 5 million because, namely, I have this, information that these funds are a little bit of a start.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16613	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. Please, nice. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, please kindly, I repeat the motion for the conclusion of this House. And he says so. Yes, a report on the audit of the Agency for Labour and Employment with the report of the competent committee of this House is adopted and four recommendations are made in this report which I have read. Then, under 2nd, the House asks this institution for a report on its work over the past year, asking the Council of Ministers and the Resolute Ministry for a report on the work of this institution, okay. I'm putting a motion to vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bish with 25 votes in favour of, 1 against, 1 abstention, and with a sufficient entity majority, adopted the proposal for this conclusion, and thus ended the 13th agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I now set a break to 13 o'clock and 20 munitions, 15 minutes break, 13:25, excuse me, 15:25, excuse me. 61 Here we are in the O.R., please continue our work. [[PAUZA]] We're going to the 14th item of the agenda, that's Ad.14. Information from the Ministry of Defense, on the inspection carried out by the barracks in Han Sand and the possible involvement of military personnel in the cover-up of war crimes indictees, we have placed this item on the agenda, although until today, Dom has not received information, and last time, I repeat it for the second time today, I once said it at the Expansive College. The minister made it clear that the information would be completed by February 14th and that it would then be forwarded to the Council of Ministers and only after the procedure in the Council of Ministers has passed, will it be delivered to this House, but the House has decided to include this as a part of the agenda. The defence minister, Mr Nikola Radovanović, is present, and if you consider it necessary, I call on him to address this House. If you don't have anything new. That's what I'm saying right now. Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Živković, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16614	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Minister, so that there is no confusion, means no interpersonal conflict, or anything, I appreciate you as a professional and one of the few ministers who, at the invitation of this Assembly, comes when asked of him. But it's not just my proposal, but most of it here, even the vast majority in the Assembly, and last time and this time, they've asked this point of the agenda to be. I'm sorry that this is the way we have to communicate, because obviously there are a lot of misunderstandings, whether it's about your service or about our service, I think we need to be clear. And I would ask you to make these misunderstandings, if there are misunderstandings here, because my discussion after your answer will be this, about what you're going to say. Is it a misunderstanding or is it something else? I will remind you that in 03.02 of your ministry an act has been delivered to this Parliamentary Assembly informing us that you are unable to provide the requested information and I do not understand why, if such an act, and you know that you could not have prepared the 3rd for that session, you did not deliver the day before. Because the College obviously couldn't tell us, because it wasn't, just in the afternoon he got that information from your ministry, that we weren't putting on a free agenda, that we weren't discussing it, that we were just saying, that you didn't just save it and we're moving on. In that act, you said nicely that in connection with the conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, the above issue, we would like to inform you that the investigation into the case of war crimes suspects in Kasar near Han Pijesk... In 2004, 62 will be completed on 14. 02.2005. The BiH defence ministry will submit the requested information after the investigation is completed. The record, which was led by it, says nicely that the deadline for submitting a total report to the High Representative, who asked you to do so in 1402, is still under way. So this is from the 3rd record, so it's in the Assembly that the Ministry of Defence's intention is to end within this time limit and to provide the House of Representatives with information in writing. It means to me, and all the MPs here who voted for this item on the agenda, I wonder if that written information exists, whether we can get it and say, my further relationship with this, this agenda point will be when you say whether it's a misunderstanding or something else. And besides, I'll give you a conclusion, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16615	Thank you. Who wants to talk more about this agenda point? Mr. Momčilo Novaković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16616	I must say that I voted to put this item on the agenda, fully aware of the same circumstances as when we talked about the 12th item of the agenda, i.e. this, also the information of the Council of Ministers we asked for and for which we were almost, so we were sure we weren't going to get it. I voted here to put this on the agenda from simple solidarity with my colleague Živković, deeply convinced that we cannot do this in the way that my colleague Živković suggested. In fact, we asked for written information from the ministry, and we didn't have that written information until the moment of adoption of the agenda, nor did it come to the Parliamentary Assembly until the moment of adoption, so as soon as it was clear that we wouldn't have that information in writing today. I would first of all like to commend this, here's the minister, the first to come here today, and the only member of the Council of Ministers who came, unlike the previous minister who didn't even come when his act was on the agenda. But I also don't see any real reason why we wouldn't treat this information as well as any other information. And that is, to provide information to the Parliamentary Assembly, to go after it to the competent commission, to the competent commission to discuss information and to propose a report to this House, which, of course, we will discuss as well as the information itself. 63 And that is, I suggest, therefore, the conclusion that the House, by next session, obliges the Commission, means the competent commission to submit a report, given that by then we will have a secure written report, so to report this information to the House. That's actually what I want to shorten the debate, or I suggest we shorten the debate here at the House by focusing it on the commission. So I really don't think I have enough arguments here today to discuss information I don't have, I don't even have enough arguments to vote on the agenda, and I voted, I said why. And I suggest, fellow Živković, that together it means we all accept that this information has a character like any other information, that is, to be in normal procedure, so in committee this, we discuss as well as all the other information we discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16617	Thank you. Mr. Živković, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16618	Replication in one minute. I think Mr. Novaković abused what I said here. And I said that my discussion after that would be clarified, whether it was a misunderstanding or a deliberate manner of relations between Parliament, the Ministry or the Council of Ministers, would be my discussion. If it is a misunderstanding, I have the same conclusion, the Joint Commission is in charge of that and that, to submit a report on possible involvement and that. So I had that conclusion, but I wanted to be clear here first, because the first time was a misunderstanding, you know. And the second time, there's already been a lot of misunderstanding. If it's a misunderstanding, and we didn't get that report because of the misunderstanding, here's the conclusion, and we don't have any more discussion about this, you know. But if it's anything else, then I have an argument about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16619	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Anyone else want to talk? Then I'm closing the argument. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are in the next situation. So, the defence minister is last time, and I know what's been said here at the pay phone, I've said it again, and I'll repeat it one more time, has informed this Parliament in oral information, here at the pay phone, that the information will be finished by 14th that it will then be submitted to the Council of Ministers, and that after the Council of Ministers' position, the information will be made available to Parliament and delivered to Parliament. I, as chairman of the dom and we as a College, until they get that information, cannot talk forward about any procedures. We need to see the information, see its contents, see its form, and then, as a College, we'll treat it the way we should treat it. I can't speak forward and I can't offer you conclusions that might be based on some assumptions. 64 Simply, the information has to come, and there's no information. I was also saying that when I voted, before I would vote against the execution of this agenda, for these reasons. But Dom mostly classified this as a part of the agenda and it has to be a part of the agenda. But here, we have now come to the situation that this, to make a decision, the only thing I can say, is to find out that at this point, we have no information, that the Minister of Defence has submitted information on the oral information on the development of that information at the last session, and that we are waiting for that information to come to us from the Council of Ministers, so that Parliament can discuss it. And that's how to end this agenda point. I don't know what they'd vote on, right now in this situation. In this way, I declare, of course you can.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16620	Since the minister or you said on behalf of the minister it was a misunderstanding, I want to say that this means that this is my discussion that I said afterwards. That he has that information and it's already done with OHR. That that information has, that all the media, that only the Parliamentary Assembly doesn't have that information. And the fact is that somewhere else is the centre of power, and not in this Parliament, and that someone else, has chosen and seems to be the Ministers and Council of Ministers, that this Parliament has only confirmed their choice here. It is true and we should face it and as long as it is so, we respect ourselves first, this Parliament is not respected and then it is no wonder that we are constantly in the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16621	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of Defense in the end. Here you go, Mr. Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16622	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was my intention to take the floor and not take the time, however, given the course of the discussion, I feel obliged to warn myself of several facts. Therefore, information has been requested from the Ministry of Defence on the inspection carried out by Kasarna in Han Pijesk and the possible involvement of military personnel in the hideout of war crimes indictees. I, too, addressed this House in the previous session, stressed that it was only part of the overall investigation ordered by the High Representative, which required the Ministry of Defence to identify systemic weaknesses in the functioning of the defence system in BiH by 14 February and to propose measures to remove these systemic weaknesses and to carry out this investigation. So the information on the investigation itself is part of the broader information that I was obliged to deliver to the OHR on February 14th and the Ministry of Defense did. The defence ministry also provided this information to the BiH presidency as the Supreme Civilian Commander of the Armed Forces, provided information on the report to the Council of Ministers and Information 65 on the report and the Parliamentary Assembly. So, the misunderstanding is obviously in the fact how long it takes to get this material from my ministry to the secretariat and I'm going to work on my part to get what is signed on the same day to Dom, but I think the conclusion about this report was that within 7 days the information was delivered. I delivered that information or delivered the report to the High Representative on February 14th, today is February 18th, and the information will be here in seven days.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16623	In Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16624	In Parliament. I have no intention of hiding any information from that report, and what has appeared in the media is a very brief part of that report to eliminate media interest. Therefore, information has not been made available or reported to the media without being done to the Parliamentary Assembly and I would ask that this be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16625	Thank you, Mr. Minister. So, as far as I understand you, that information will be here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, at the House of Representatives, as far as I understand. Office, thank you. When the information arrives, according to this information, the College will treat as well as any document that comes here to Parliament in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And this way, I end up, declaring the end point of the 14th agenda. Thank you, Mr. Minister, for this information. Moving to the 15th point of the agenda, that's Ad.15. A report by the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum, on the visit of BiH Parliamentary Assembly MPs, the International Criminal Tribunal for War Crimes, committed in the area of the former Yugoslavia, received ladies and gentlemen of the Commission's Report on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum. As you have seen, the Commission has, in its opinion, determined the situation and proposed to Dom that it adopt certain conclusions contained in the Commission report which would become the conclusions of the House. I'm opening a debate on this issue. Who wants to talk? Mr. Beriz Belkić, then Mr. Miloš Jovanović. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16626	I'm sorry, then maybe it would be better if Mr. Jovanović might want an extra one, I mean it's no problem, if you want something extra about the information? Yeah, I'll take it, Mr. Miloš.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16627	Mr Miloš Jovanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16628	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will try this in short lines, although we have to say, the report has been filed. I was one of the members of the delegation before the Human Rights Commission, which visited BiH citizens in The Hague. I can say that this initiative has been going on a little longer since the last assembly called, and here I have managed to say, somehow, to realize in this assembly session, that is, this Human Rights Commission, refugees, immigration and asylum. Well, I can't say there were obstructions, but there was a problem, in order for this Commission to visit The Hague at all, we've even had one day of delay, but I think we've done this task of ours, which we've got. The basic reason and the basic purpose of our visit was to see if those fundamental human rights and freedoms of war crimes indictees were being violated. We also had a chance, that was to say, by the way, to go to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, the International Criminal Court and the International Court of Justice, so that as a delegation, let me say, we had the opportunity to learn and see something else. The delegation consisted of four members, meaning three MPs and a secretary of the delegation, and I can tell you that we only had three hours at our disposal to talk to the defendant. Since we had a desire to talk to as many people as possible, we divided into two groups. In one group were me and Mr Hasić, and in the second group were Mrs Ruža Sopta and Mr Muhamed Altić. From everything we've talked to the defendant, we've given it up in this report, and I'd just short out a few things like this, what all the defendants agree on and where they were unique. And first of all, the process, so the trial itself, it takes too long. Is there, uh, people who have been in custody for a few years, which means only the trial hasn't even started. The second thing, also this appeal procedure, means from the moment they are convicted to this, the debate on the appeal also takes a long time. Well, I'm actually having the chance to speak to 67 of the defendant, who took two months, so he's been sentenced to five years. Two months until the end of those five years without the appeal being considered. Also, what they were unique about, which is that people who have been accused and have not been proven guilty, means they have no compensation, because we have examples, I think it might be mentioned in the report, means people who have been released, so after a few years they've been in The Hag, they've been cleared of the charges and means that there's simply nothing, so it means neither material, nor moral, nor human reparations to these people. The second thing, what I'm saying, this one they're looking for, is that, simply those who meet the conditions to defend themselves from freedom, there are very few of them, I say, although they meet the basic conditions provided by The Hague tribunal. If I didn't talk about some of the personal problems he's having right now, I think it would be too much to say the smallest human problems, to these biggest ones. What I'd like to point out here, and what's to say most, I can't say everyone, the defendants she asked, simply begged the media's primary relationship to the defendant. It's just that people have been begging to end the lynch campaign against the defendants, because it simply stems from those people being charged before they're punished. So, they simply asked this House and us here to carry it on so that the campaign simply stops. I think there's a special responsibility for reporting this SENS agency, and it's their belief that it's put on, to say, in the capacity of the D.A.'s Subparol. I think it's like this, uh, big remark and there's this, uh, special problem. We are also asked to, in a way, appeal to citizens who are calling as witnesses of the defense, so to say, without fear, come to be witnesses, because according to their stories, there are a lot of witnesses who come in this way, as false witnesses, and there are also those allegedly who are even paid. What we said in our report, now whether we are here, we have made the right conclusion, but I think we should think, perhaps, in the discussion, there might be some better conclusion, but the essence is that it should mean, the competent state institutions, whether perhaps the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that perhaps through the Tribunal or through the tribunal, that the UN Assembly should raise the issue, means changes to the statutes, that those who are accused and released, means that they have some sort of material depravity. Whether it will go through The Hague tribunal, whether I say it to the national courts, but I think that I should say, we should think about it, and in the end we would in some way increase the responsibility of the Prosecutor's Office because in that case, I think they would be making sure to say, who, against whom they are moving this, the procedure. And what might be even more interesting, to get all the defendants, to say provide equal treatment by BiH institutions. So, as for this one, help families and this one, visit families and everyone to tell some other jurisdiction. 68 Here, I've had so much, so maybe if there are any more questions, something I haven't said, so me and the board members are at our disposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16629	Thank you, Mr. Beriz Belić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16630	Here I am this morning trying to go to the Enlarged College, to suggest of course it is not supported, so I am reporting again that one such information, namely this specific information before our consideration, is to try to get the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Court of BiH, and those parts that speak about the position and status of the tribunal, some obligations, some relations, etc. But the Expansive College didn't accept it, so I will, of course, suggest this, that regardless of the fate of this information, whether it will be adopted or not, that we still deliver it because of these institutions, they are mentioned here, etc. to deliver them to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Human Rights and the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, because they are all, in a way, being proposed here in recommendations and conclusions. Why, am I saying this and why did I propose this morning? Here, I'll only talk about three things. So, the objectives of this, defined by the Commission or the group that went, are to get acquainted with the Court's problems, to see what the role of the Parliamentary Assembly is in solving these problems, visits to the defendants, etc. I see that practically here the purpose of the visit was to visit the defendants, which I have absolutely nothing against. And they have rights, superhuman rights, etc., and I see that you have managed to visit the Dutch Parliament along the way. So, this one, it should be clearly specified that the point of the visit was to visit the detainees of the UN tribunal. This was in some way along the way, because the level of meetings you had, indeed, is not the kind of nature that you would get the right information about the position and status of the UN tribunal, so at least you should have tried, the president of the Hague or The Hague tribunal or the prosecutor. But, uh, that thing went by she can't be fixed in any way anymore. The most important reason I answered is because of these recommendations. So these conclusions. If you look closely at the conclusions, they are all directed in a way, as a criticism to The Hague tribunal, or a warning to The Hague tribunal and other institutions to in some way deny the rights of the defendants, detainees, their defences, etc. I don't mind, of course, if it's justified and if it's in accordance with The Hague tribunal's Statute. What bothers me most here is that practically these messages go towards The Hague tribunal and we're okay and we don't have to do anything. The only recommendation to the domestic authorities, in all these conclusions, except for those recommendations that go in the direction of improving the situation, is that it is the last one that says that the Commission points out the need for greater co-operation between the competent authorities and the BiH entity bodies in the process of collecting, processing and delivering documents to the tribunal, which I support on the request that the defendants be arrested and arrested. So, not only the documentation, but the documentation that it's talking about. So, to conclude, I suggest that when it comes to conclusions, this final conclusion is expanded with the word - and the delivery of the defendants to The Hague tribunal, and that this information be delivered to these four institutions that I have listed. We'll normally be restrained according to this information.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16631	Thank you. Mr. Martin Raguž, have Mrs. Ruža Sopta prepare, and then I'll decide on the discussion, but when I get the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16632	Thank you very much. I would first like to welcome this report and to those who went on behalf of the Human Rights Commission and the refugees of this House, indeed to give recognition in a truly comprehensive, transparent and clear report. The second question is whether or not we should agree to all the recommendations, but I think the Commission's basic mission that went there has been achieved. It is, however, an introduction to the full work of the Court, the circumstances in which he works. In addition to the International Court of War Crimes committed in the area of the former Yugoslavia, the ICC International Criminal Court and the International Court of Justice were also visited. So what I'm thinking, is that we don't need to start questioning the quality of this report, I really mean it. I mean, if this report should be further strengthened by certain types of recommendation, that is my proposal, and in this sense, that Mr Belkić spoke of, in terms of more explicit determination of this commission than the House, which means pressure and on the domestic authorities to fulfil the obligations and conditions and political criteria more strongly, I think that this observation stands. I personally support it, to enter this.... However, as far as I have information, and I think they are reliable, most of the people who have met with the members of the Commission have welcomed and positively assessed this step by Parliament. And I would remind you that ten people have been released so far and spent several years in custody. So just imagine the human fates of their families and all that was behind it. And what's wrong with that, if you're asked here to comply with international conventions and regulations, someone's valorizing what they've suffered. And I think it's a very good conclusion and I don't know why we should ask anyone like Parliament, whether the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of Justice, we should support these conclusions for me today. I also cannot agree with the assessment that the focused report is solely on these accused persons. I think that in the first part of this, the Court's work is defined, the procedures, the documentation and that it is quite well done, that recommendations are based on the first assumption that BiH should ask the Tribunal to fulfil its function of justice, as a prerequisite for reconciliation. I think it's one of the top recommendations that should also be supported. But 70 why not speak once at last, I personally talked and received several people who spent four years there, as brothers of Kupreškić, who seek the right to compensation. There is no such thing as no mechanism, no mechanism, no UN, no Statute of the Court, no acts by BiH institutions defined the possibility of them starting it. And I think we should insist that BiH authorities initiate a procedure that will allow it. And that's one quality conclusion that should also be supported. Second, everyone is innocent, every person is innocent until proven guilty, every single one absolutely. Here, it is predetermined, here in advance, not even an investigative procedure is launched, but the labels of war criminals are easily stretched. Those who have committed, they will probably be convicted, hopefully, we should do everything possible to be convicted, brought to justice, but let's really hold on to one state of law, to a legal order, to point to one kind of failure and to stand behind the rights and human rights of all persons who have not yet been proven guilty. It is a very important element of the report and I also strongly support it. What I can say is that it is important in this part, there may be one assessment that, let's check with both the Council of Institutors and the Ministry of Justice, where it says, therefore, that the tribunal's concept is bad, but that assessment stands if this other one stands, there is work and no jury, in fact there is no appeal procedure, or there is no second-degree procedure. If that's the case, and I trust Dr Hasić, and this report is really high-quality, why not stand there, too. We do not question the fundamental functions of the court, but we point to the procedural matters that are important, that the procedure is conducted in a fair and quality manner. And what I also think is good is a matter of testimony. Is it possible for someone to testify falsely without being sanctioned? Here's the question asked, I think that's how this report fully justifys it, so that's my personal opinion. Maybe it's a good recommendation to both the Ministry of Justice and the Council of Ministers and I don't think we should as a Dom express some kind of reserve against the fundamental function of this commission, this commission that... and the recommendations. I don't think that would be good, because the content in my opinion is correct and raises the fundamental functions of the Court, its basic mission, we can only strengthen some of the recommendations in terms of those things that indicate insufficient cooperation, any authorities, any individuals in the process of bringing in those who are suspected and clearly have. It costs this country, so it's my nature, therefore, to support this report with certain additional suggestions and recommendations and communication with other institutions. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16633	Thank you. Mrs. Ruža Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16634	I thank Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, firstly as I would like to point out that you have in mind, that we have traveled in front of the Human Rights Commission. 71 So our task was to determine if there were any violations of the human rights of our citizens who had not yet been convicted. And that was our first purpose. In addition to our visit, I must immediately say that the trip has been very well organised and so fruitful that we have been able to actually visit three courts, parliament, talk to the tužeteljstvo representatives, talk to representatives of the Judicial Council, liaison officers and prisoners, detainees, or in a prison of investigation, to put it that way. Why do I mention this? First, we met and it was really good and it was nice and I would like each and every one of you to meet all three of these courts. When it comes to the International Criminal Tribunal for War Crimes in the area of the former Yugoslavia, the Permanent International Court and the International Court of Justice. It would be very interesting if we had good material about it and if Mr Hasić agreed, from those materials that we received, to do one and share all of us, it would be very important to us in some future work, which is not only about crimes in the area of the former Yugoslavia, but these two courts that treat one matter that is important for parliamentarians to know. If we hadn't talked, if we hadn't just gone to defend ourselves and we wanted to see the concept of the court, that's that we talked to the prosecution, where we asked the truth,...before we talked to our detainees, the citizens of BiH who are in custody, where we asked the question, really false witnesses. I mean, literally, the man was lying to us, and we asked if false witnesses would be processed. He's got his shoulders down, he's talking to us, and he's not going to tell me if he's going to know from your courts at all. Doesn't that deserve to draw attention to the purpose of this first conclusion? Secondly, we discussed the length of the investigation. We asked why the investigation took so long. So if a man won't be, start the trial in four years, so why don't you let that man be in that period, until he's really convicted, with his family, and not take him four years like we've lived for thousands of years. Second, we spoke with the representatives of the Council of Fate. I find this court really illogical, the way it's set up. You don't actually have an appeal procedure. The Fate Council consists of six judges. Mine, there goes the appeal procedure, we just agree between us who's going to conduct the procedure. There's no jury. That is indeed what I am asked of the justice which is proved in this way. I say it, I say it openly and there. We also spoke to the liaison officers. If you remember, any budget for the presidency, and you see that item for the liaison officers. And they only work for Karla Del Poneta. They don't work for our people's lawyers, which I can't imagine is the same information being available to them and to them. When we were after that, we first had these conversations, and then we talked to the detainees. I must say immediately, that all of us, we have talked to each other individually, each was the first sentence, we welcome that you have come as a tripartite, and a transnational commission, representatives of that commission. First, you came as a three-member 72 team, but that's in front of the Human Rights Commission, because individuals are told that they have immunity from human rights. It means they have negative immunity, that they can't be, that they're not human, and they're not yet proven guilty. I reacted to that, and I asked that question there. Not everyone had the fate of Blaškić to pass the Calvary passed by by Mr... A letter to Mr. Blaškić, the answer has been received to such a written response from the Human Rights Commission,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16635	I, indeed, ask you, Mr. Belkić, I ask you to stop the incursions when MPs are discussing here in Parliament. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16636	Not everyone had the destiny of Mr. Blaškić staying in the room without daylight for 40 days. Mr. Blaškić deserves the good part that he has fought for the human conditions that people have there today. I must say, all of them have declared that the terms and conditions of the staff are perfect, that it's literally like a hotel mix. People have their own room, they have their own computer, they have, everybody has a separate room, they come to visit, they have a nice place where they can cook their own food, they say they usually cook their own food, they all praise that their food is good, but they make their own food because they don't fit the food that's being prepared there. The more, the less they cook for themselves. They've got time to walk, they've got a gym, they've got something else out there. What everyone asked for, and I keep it perfectly normal, to shorten the procedure, the investigation process to be shortened. What everyone asked for, false witnesses to be prosecuted. Does anyone have anything against it? What everyone's been looking for is that if they can, if those conditions are met, defend themselves from freedom. And what they've asked us not to call them criminals what they say, read from individual officials and people in the paper, so we don't call them criminals until they're convicted. I was pleasantly surprised about the communication of those people there. They all have their own, but people are holding on, they've had meaning their own mission, they've fought the way they fought, and they're holding on today, the human relationship. Everyone defends themselves in their own way. And prove it, and it's okay. What is, I lost one thought that I think is very important to mention, is. I asked the prosecutor a question when they said that they mainly conduct the procedure under command, or people are being prosecuted under command. I asked what happened to the satisfaction of the victim who met the perpetrator of the crime in the city he lives in. I'm really asking that question, since it was most often, most brutally against women of such crimes, I'm asking the question, what kind of satisfaction does a person have if he's convicted by a commander and has not prosecuted the person who is the perpetrator of the crime. I'm real, they say they're low-ranking acts and they leave it to our courts. What we meet here in our own, the attention of our courts, is that these people are being prosecuted. False witnesses to process, that all other things that do not agree with the logic of man, that they must gain their dimension through our institutions of judgment. That's it. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16637	Mr. Šefik Džaferović, the chairman, answered. I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16638	Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the best contribution to the protection of human rights and this visit has made to its initiative, the Commission's delegation for Human Rights, Refugees, Immigration and Asylum, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, full co-operation between BiH, all its institutions and every body from municipality to state with The Hague tribunal. This is the best contribution from the BiH state and all of us here in Parliament to protect human rights. And again, fundamental human rights have been violated, including the right to live hundreds of thousands of people or millions of people who have been moved from their hearths. I, too, am your mission, honourable parliamentarians, from this commission, after you have made a decision to travel, understood as a commission required by The Hague tribunal and the Prosecutor's Office and the Court to see what it is that BiH is not doing in full co-operation with The Hague tribunal and that your recommendations relate primarily to the full co-operation of BiH and all its institutions, starting from the municipality to us here in quality co-operation with The Hague tribunal. We have received a report from the Commission after this visit, which seems to me to be going in a completely different direction in its largest part, and that is something this Parliament should not fall for and that is something this Parliament should not accept. I have no objection to the protection, on the contrary, so I am to protect the human rights of every citizen of this country, however, your report, according to me, of the basic mission of this visit, contains only one sentence, which is incomplete to which Mr Belkić pointed out in his discussion, when it is said that the Commission points to the need for greater co-operation of the BiH entity authorities and bodies in the process of collecting documents to the Tribunal, does not talk about the need for arrest, etc. By contrast, this report is filled with some of the findings that, in my humble legal knowledge, actually mean an attempt to interfere with the work of the Hague tribunal institution and that we should not allow ourselves here. Well, it is said that the tribunal's concept is bad because it works without a jury and basically there is no appeal procedure, or there is no second-degree procedure. I really can't understand that someone can take the right to make such a finding. You know that The Hague tribunal is founded by UN Security Council decisions, you know that there is a Statute, you know that there are rules and there is a way to make those rules, and I don't think we can and can't and that it's unacceptable for us to interfere with those rules. Procedural proceedings and appeal against suspects have been pending for a very long time, regardless of whether or not the person has volunteered for the retrieval and whether there is full co-operation between the tribunal and individual suspects. This is a matter of the tribunal. The tribunal said the commission's report very rarely approves of persons defending themselves from freedom, regardless of what guarantees the government of the country's home government have that the suspect will contact the tribunal at the invitation. And this is the tribunal's exclusive matter. The tribunal does not use all benefits and opportunities in the existing norms. Norma can ask 74 to bring witnesses but he never requires it. This is a review of the work of the Court and recommendations, etc. In the proposal for a conclusion, for example. I'm just quoting examples, for example. All documents delivered to the D.A. to deliver and defend both from the D.A. and from the liaison officer. We write, we write criminal proceedings. This is Parliament's proposal to write criminal proceedings. Please be nice, allow before the investigative shops, an amazing thing to put something like this in a report like this. Provide suspected defenses from freedom if they meet the intended conditions. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, members of this delegation and this committee, these are the things that the least said cannot be the subject of treatment in this House, these are matters of procedure and decision of the Hague tribunal's Statute. That's why, in order not to speak further, I suggest we return this report nicely to this committee, that this commission has in mind all the things that we have said here today. Then, to act as Mr Belkić suggested, so he delivers it to the justice ministry, delivers it to the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, he actually asks the institutions for an opinion from the foreign ministry, and only then to deliver a report to Parliament here. That's it, thank you. Mr. Martin Raguž, vice chairman of the line.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16639	So I support this that the report should strengthen the fundamental role of the Court and what needs to be done. Anything else Mr. Džaferović said shows a lack of understanding of the role of Parliament, which he heads. And I want to simply not accept it as a member of the College. This parliament has the right to consider all the elements concerning this country because this court applies to the citizens of this country and to the country's territory. And I don't accept, therefore, that we can't talk about it, that we can't analyze it. But we should protect the integrity of this parliament, so that it can deal with arguments, not partially and politically, in the end, there is a series of elements that say that the UN tribunal has gone beyond the framework of the Statute. Are we ready to talk about this? I am. A fundamental function is known to bring and punish all those who have compromised any fundamental human right here. But not manipulation by the institution and not abuse by the institution, and I want to talk about it in this House. And that's it... let them be legitimate, Parliament is there to see the differences, but don't judge Džaferović here by people who dare to write things. Please state your differences and opinions, but do not pre-qualify that they did not have the right to do so. They had the right to do that. And not to mention the comparative analysis of the charges and the way they're designed, logistic, and it'll all come up once. Maybe 30 years from now. No, some people have the right to respect the dignity of this House and the dignity of a person, whether or not they have broken the law in any way, until the moment it is proved. 75 I can support that other institutions are manifest and I think that's a smart conclusion, but don't let this, one quality report, with, of course, these elements that we can talk about, attack it like this and question it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16640	I have an answer to your line, if I can get a word in with you, thank you. Dear colleague Raguž, I am trying very hard to understand the role of Parliament and be sure that this is not about not understanding the role of Parliament on my part, as you have qualified it as a key man, or, I apologize, the head man of Parliament. In fact, it is that I understand the role of Parliament and it is about my efforts to understand the role of Parliament, not to bring Parlaemnt into a very awkward situation when it comes to this matter. I understand the role of the Court and the role of Parliament and all I do is not put this Parliament in a position to be a judge. This parliament cannot be a court, and here in the report there are assessments and qualifications that are exclusively a matter of the court. And all I wanted to say, therefore, is actually that, and in no way is it not an misunderstanding of the role of Parliament, but rather an attempt to preserve the role and integrity of this Parliament. That's it. The replica was answered by Mr Miloš Jovanović, after which, Ruža Sopta, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16641	Well, you see, dear colleagues, what I mean. This report was unanimously adopted by the Commission on Human Rights, Refugees, Immigration and Asylum. The chairman of the committee is Mr. Emir Jahić. The other thing, we haven't said in any word that now someone who's accused, to defend him, to try, so we've only said what's true. Just what's true and what people told us in the conversation. I accept what Mr. Belkić said, it is not disputed to go this report to say to anyone, and to add this to the last one, the conclusion. So it's nothing to argue with. And, you, Mr. Džaferović, you often have a custom, which is what I'm telling you now, I've been holding back here, to give every lecture. I don't allow it. So, I'm like Miloš Jovanović in the future, so I'm not gonna let you give lectures here to anyone. I repeat, we have made a report, the Commission adopted it, delivered it to Parliament and I ask that Parliament, which means votes on this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16642	Look, Miloše, I'll get out of here and just tell you, my discussion wasn't a lecture to anyone. Mine.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16643	It's 76 all the time.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16644	Well, look, my discussion is none of anyone's excuse, it's just a discussion of MPs in the state parliament, and as you understand it, that's your problem. Mrs. Sopta, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16645	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can tell you, I was scared for a second. I could have talked more easily and freely in The Hague tribunal than I thought here. When we left, we left as representatives of the Human Rights Commission. No one has given us any restrictions on what we can and where to discuss. I'm saying that the commission, that someone, I didn't, someone prepared the work of this group that went there. And that absurdity exists, so people there told us who led both the D.A. and the Fate Council. That court works without a law. I don't know if you fellow parliamentarians know that this court works without law. He has a rule, and let me tell you that they've told us that 38 times the rules have improved. So 38 times the rules have changed for the better. So, the word is that it's 18 judges meeting there, they've made the rules they're going to judge by, which is absurd again. People make the rules they judge, but let's just say it's accepted. And they say themselves, at first it was arranged in a few, I mean a small number of articles, later they improved the situation. It was a court that adhoc was created. And they admit themselves that there was a flaw and they kept improving it. So what's wrong, if we contribute again to improving such rules. Where did we say we shouldn't process those who are guilty of life here? But I note that this court says that he will not deal with the perpetrators of individual crimes, that they, they will judge for command responsibility, that it remains for our courts. Well, don't we say it nicely here, you all mention the final conclusion, and the first two are the locks for me. Bosnia and Herzegovina should seek that the Tribunal fulfils its post of justice as a precondition for reconciliation in BiH. Do we expect reconciliations if the real perpetrators of crime are not punished, let me put it this way, perpetrators of crime. And here, let's say that by commanding responsibility, they will answer up in The Hague. And what will happen is whether our courts here will prosecute the perpetrators of crime. It says, it supports activities in the human and material training of the BiH Court of Justice and the BiH Prosecutor's Office that will take over unfinished investigations and pending cases. Well, that's what we're auditioning for. Well, that's what they told us. They told us the rules were fixed. They said the prison conditions were terrible, that Mr. Blaškić spent 40 days in a room with no daylight. And when he saw that in that Russian submarine, it was said that after 30 days there were physiological changes that could be catastrophic, he asked and then they gave him a window room. Is that something terrible that we've noticed? Well, my men, I speak for those 8 or 9 who have been released and who have spent several years there. So I ask you nicely, in order to feel any of you, that you do not know whether you will be tried for life or 25 or 45, the first one, for example, 77 Blaškić is an example that 45 years has been tried. Well, that's supposed to be psychological. It's not just a question of that. And why can't we help fix the rules, make the conditions for our people there that haven't been convicted yet? And we talked about people where the procedure isn't over. Why can't we talk like that in this House? For God's sakes, so we're talking about de-certified cops, we're talking about whatever rights other, publicly here, and we're fighting for the rights of these people, and we can't fight for the lives of people and for justice, so that she gets the victim, every victim, gets the satisfaction, that she just judges and the responsible people to be tried. I believe that you, Mr. Džaferović, are obviously confused here, or have over-emphasised some of our conclusions. I went as a representative of the Human Rights Commission. It's about the rights of our citizens, until they're convicted, I believe I've done absolutely nothing wrong. And what I'm giving, this is what we and they even said, that some things can be improved when it comes to the prosecution and when it comes to it, can't we, I think the greatest criminal is the one who's wrongly testified. In this case because we paid him, because we put him there in the nicest hotel, because we paid by our means we paid him, we found him a bonder, and he wrongly testified. And no one's going through it now. Please, nice. And expect reconciliation after that. I believe that these things should be well, well coerced precisely to match all those who falsely testify because the one in cold blood, with nothing wrong, and someone might be sealed by fate, not someone, but maybe even a whole group of people, who are not responsible for it and is still paid for it. Please, nice. That part of me, I don't think it's a question of this Parliament, I think it's a matter of Parliament, and we have to and how, and I support your proposal to make a statement to the ministry about this, I support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16646	I thank Mrs. Sopta. Mr. Vinko Zorić, then prepare yourself, Mr. Sead Avdić, please. Well, Mr. Živković. Who signed up for everything? Ljiljana, Sanija, Tihomir Gligorić, is that all? Is that all the application? I'm sorry, then give us some order here so we can have it to the secretary.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16647	I actually picked up two or three minutes ago, and I'm letting Ljiljana go before.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16648	I thank my colleague Zorić. I want to say that I voted for the departure of people from the Human Rights Commission to The Hague for a reason to see what is happening to the BiH citizens who are there. Whether they have basic conditions and preconditions for a fair procedure, whether the conditions for these people's lives are adequate, whether the treatment is adequate. 78 In exactly the same way I joined the prison tour, here in BiH, I was interested in whether these people there have the rights to follow them. I've accepted this report as such. Now I'm talking about the part about their stay, their observations. I see the conclusions as something special here. So the conclusions are something that we're proposed to, and I can't suggest that this group of people change their report and what they saw there, can only suggest that the conclusions that should be common, are changed, defined as we agree. So for me, the report is something they saw, spotted, and passed on to us. One picture that may be pretty or less beautiful, but it's what it is. What do I mean? What am I handling by looking at all this? I run the situation from one April here when we voted for one agreement, with one country that takes great care of its people, so it exempts them from everything possible, I can't be responsible for any, and we're just asking that people who are in custody, so those who are yet to be tried, should be convicted, to have one human treatment. That's how I look at this. And in that sense, I support, I think that people here have just written what these detainees have given them. So that's it, plus your personal observations. As for the coordination of assistance, The Hague tribunal, I think it would be welcome to visit the Constitutional and Legal Commission of this House to see how we can regulate what we have failures, improve co-operation, legal solutions and the rest. And they're after me, going on a human mission, a visit they made like that. I was interested in Mr. Džaferović in your address, you touched things here as a lawyer. You haven't touched two things, and none of these people are the lawyers who went, who matter to me. In what way we can respond legally to this if a BiH man is detained for a few years and found innocent. If you have one, then you touched what you think is controversial, you didn't mention this to anything. That's the first one. How do you see the way out of that? How do you damage families and people, in that regard? And secondly, how do you sanction false witnesses? In that way, our country would thus protect people and its image, in a way sanctioning citizens who do certain illegal things. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16649	Thank you. Who's next? Okay, sir, no, no, I got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16650	Here I am, Tihomir Gligorić, Sanija Kapetanović
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16651	Avdić reported earlier, he was not registered either. 79 Mr. Gligorić, you'll be right after Mr. Avdić, and then Mr. Zorić, can we do that?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16652	So can Tihomir, not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16653	Here's the deal. Which one of you will then, since we've made a mess here. Mr. Tihomir Gligorić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16654	Very short. First of all, I am a member of the Committee on Human Rights and I have had the opportunity to discuss this report in more detail and I think that the report that came and the delegation that was there, and what it proposes to us as a Commission, as a delegation, the Commission has accepted and is now proposing to the House of Representatives that this should be accepted. I have understanding for people who have suggested something beyond that, given that Parliament has that possibility and is not the problem with that. But believe me, I'm even inclined to accept the report even without these recommendations because in some way, the people who went there immediately noticed it and carried it here in Parliament now we're going to leave the minister of justice, let's say that he is now in some bureaucratic cabinet a little bit of hair, re-enactment, and that in this way we humiliate our fellow MPs who did a great job. I'd ask you to consider not this, it wasn't a delegation that went on a diplomatic mission. That's what some other ministry and some other people do. This is neither a commission, a delegation that went for some economic reasons, but for human rights. They focused on it. If they hadn't, and if they had come with a report to talk about co-operation with The Hag, it was regulated by law. If they said some things that had been solved long ago, then they wouldn't have done their job. They just finished the job, and that's to talk directly to the people who are there and talk to everything they've talked to, and that's how we get a complete picture. And all the hairstyles or the revision of the report are now a committee in which we unanimously, in which we have unanimously accepted all this, now above that commission some people who see it better, see it wider, are not satisfied with the report. Now they would prepare it with their views on The Hague, with their views on the role of Bosnia and Herzegovina in co-operation with The Hag, and ignore the human destiny that we should consider. Therefore, I ask you, and it would be good to support these reports that we absolutely do not seek the opinion of either the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of Justice, there is no need for that, but to accept this report and support the Commission for Human Rights which is doing its job and has the courage to oppose human rights violations in this country when it comes to so-called. rights in this country when it comes to so-called. Algerian group, no difference. We had the strength to say unanimously they violated human rights. Now for the decertification of 80 cops, we'll have the strength to do it. We've had individual cases as well as this one. You can see now how difficult it is when someone courageously says that their rights have not been adequately treated in accordance with the International Convention on Human Rights. I ask you to support these, specifically delegations... and the Human Rights Commission so boldly continue to oppose and tell everyone in this country if anyone wants to violate human rights. Well, it's no problem if it's some other international organization, or as in this case when it was meant to address the United States. I'm asking you to keep that in mind. It's the only way we're going to help ourselves and our citizens, and no hairstyles like I see someone's got any intention of going that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16655	Thank you. Mr. Sead Avdić, have Mr. Vinko Zorić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16656	So I'd say emotions are not a good ally or police or politicians, which means this is a really sensitive political issue and it needs a lot of sensitivity to really discuss this issue. Which means you wouldn't be exclusive, which says Sopta colleague, if we get only two basic attitudes as a message from this report, which is - the abuse of false witnesses and the inability to sanction such ones, or simply... any material compensation for those who have been released, will be a great range. However, I ask you, we had the Commission on Human Rights, so I repeat once again, it was a delegation from the Commission on Human Rights and let's just commit ourselves to that, to human rights. Not to simply get into the tribunal's real assessment of whether bad practice, what rules are, did he do it well, etc. etc. I ask you, if it is in any way possible to return this text to the Commission for the Commission to clean it up, to clear up the mandate with which it was sent to The Hague. I ask you, here's an illustration for I read the findings here, says the Commission has found the following, be careful and say this – there is a large amount of documentation in Belgrade regarding the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and because of the lack of co-operation of the Serbia-Montenegro State Community, these documents cannot be used in the procedures that they are. Is this really the mandate of this committee that was in The Hague? You don't have to do that, Miloše. It's out of your office. It's unnecessary to put it in the report at all. No use at all. So don't get into any things that aren't the commission's mandate. The commission's mandate is human rights, indeed human rights. Not to read any further. He says – the tribunal's concept is bad, works without a jury, there is essentially no appeal procedure, or there is no second-degree procedure. So give me the men. So if these indications are correct, I don't doubt they're true because people have done it under emotions and under everything else. That's no problem. I totally understand them. Why have they made such a report I understand them, but objectively once again I plead give the material to compare the mandate of the Commission for Human Rights. And in this context 81 leave what is truly precious in this report, precious in this report so that they do not simply devalue it in some way. And on the other hand, what my colleague Raguž says has a lot of indications that I agree with what my colleague Raguž says, then it is more serious, then Parliament should, on the basis of this report by the Commission on Human Rights, how not to form a delegation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament and all of the BH institutions to visit The Hague tribunal and to discuss these topics. Only then is it a real intervention and simply a real relationship between Bosnia and Herzegovina with The Hague tribunal. I'm telling you, it just means how to solve this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16657	Thank you. Mr. Vinko Zorić has his word. Have Mrs. Senija Kapetanović prepare, and then you are.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16658	So here is the last one that Mr Avdić said needed to discuss this with The Hague tribunal, because what will be offered by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to discuss. This report! So one truth. The HDZ Club of Democrats supports this report in due time to propose, or join the conclusion of Mrs Milićević to visit our prisoners there annually. If it is only one of those detainees, if it is unfair there, that is the reason to be visited by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is not only the Commission for Human Rights, it is not just the Constitutional and Legal Committee, it can be the Foreign Affairs Commission, it can be other commissions. So there's a lot to be done and it's not a harmless thing if someone, I don't know what's worse or just lie there or falsely testify. And I'm that, I'm the only one in my report, false witnesses for false testimony, by the way, to erase this testimony in front of a false testimony, because false witnesses don't know how to testify differently but falsely. So, I'd write false witnesses to testify. So I support this completely, and today someone mentioned me during the session, my esteemed colleague, Miro Jović, that someone was in The Hague when he replicated Lagumdžija, so he received salary as a minister, etc. I'm asking Mire, so that's why television was on the way down the hall to make a statement. He says he's not. And I'm surprised that's not interesting for the media and that this isn't interesting for the media that we're talking about right now. When Lagumdžija proposes a debate, when he discusses the agenda, all the cameras are on, and when we discuss one of these important topics, then the solemn lodge there probably sends messages to his cell phone, etc. And half the MPs aren't here. And those MPs who fight for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't know how we can talk about here that, I asked my colleague Sopta, she says they've only been with the detainees for three hours and they've split it into two groups and 15 82 minutes with every prisoner. So it wasn't, I think these bold names are very important to me. I see they were with 15 prisoners. So they divided into two groups, they were about 8 inmates, and they were with 10 of these bolded. So with more of these, and they're probably, I wouldn't trust any detainee, but I hear Miloš a little while ago whenever any remark says so why did you put it on, he says so they told us there in the prosecution and the court. That's what they told us back there. Rose says they fixed it 38 times, etc. What I want to say in the end is that, I have already said that I am suggesting that parliamentary delegations visit detainees, therefore detainees. I am not talking about prisoners who are in Sweden, who are in Finland, who are in Spain, they are convicted, so prisoners to visit the parliamentary delegations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, at least twice a year, and to accept this report with a special emphasis on false testimony and then to refer this report to where counterpart Belkić was speaking both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so let them evaluate. They can take this back to Parliament and say it, so people there is something not true. Your delegation that was there was misinformed and I would, I also at first felt somehow that this report, although I know it wasn't, that this report was these three or four people. This is the report of a committee of Parliament's House of Representatives and if there is nothing false here and if there is nothing, no injuries, I think we should accept this report in due time so that we can both be in charge of the Commission and both ministries, etc. etc. to make a new report, but a report that is true. I have not heard any disputation here, and I respect, I cannot speak, enter legal terms like my colleague Džaferović. I respect him as a lawyer, but I think I've had enough of the discussions that contest this report was more philosophical, and that's what bothers me. We should talk about these things in a clear language and, yes, if not ready. Martin talked about it, if it is not ready to talk about it today, let's determine when it is ready to talk about it, and also about this report and other things that are related to the content of this report. I repeat, the HDZ Club will support, the HDZ Democrats will support this report with these conclusions that I have mentioned coming.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16659	I thank Mr. Zorić. The word is Mrs. Senija Kapetanović. Have Mr. Milorad Živković prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16660	It's very difficult for me after all these discussions to answer, but a little bit of them have contributed that maybe I'll cut it short, because some aspects of this were already talking, so I wouldn't be special. I just think I should, so I'm speaking in advance of this aspect, and then I'm going to say something that I think should be first. I think that aspect, that the Human Rights Commission went that based on its evaluation of the programme it was going on and that it focused on such a report in order to harm those 83 rights that no other categories were mentioned here. I think that this is justifiable and that the Commission has justified its role and that it should have gone no matter who and what trials it is now, because they are citizens of our country and they deserve it, that protection of the visas of you human rights. But I, now I'm going back to the first part of what I was going to say first, we are discussing here in Parliament today this thing that is very important and specific to our country, because we are here, I think that every other court you know here would be different from this role that we have. We are here representatives of this Parliament, of citizens who are in the role of those who are accused and also of the role of those who are seeking this justice. They're asking that there's someone who will do this to them, and we didn't, first of all, we couldn't even choose to do it because the international UN founded that court, and it's good that it is, because you see how many years after the war we haven't been doing what you say we've been doing, and first of all, we couldn't even choose to do it because the international UN founded that court, and it's good that it is, because you see how many years after the war we've been doing, we haven't been able to process what we've been looking at today, and we've had a chance to experience what we've been doing, because you know I've come from one environment where I've experienced now to look at those who have done it, and nothing happened to them. So, this is, this would, if she didn't have this concept and that accent that she visited as a Human Rights Commission and they were citizens of our country and they deserved it when they were destined to be treated as humans, but the visa of those victims we have to be careful to give these other assessments, because first I think that, already it's said, that the position that the Commission has, at the same time, if I say, evaluated some big things about the Court, I don't think that it should have, if it was, and she could have seen it, we can't tell us now, said here some, we can't erase what they saw. That's right. We can't erase what they saw, but from the point of view of this conclusion that as the Commission for Human Rights, these are, some of these things where it would really be the protection of human rights, but in this finding they should have put in some other form so that this Parliament is seriously concerned, because I seriously don't think that in one report of the Human Rights Commission we should entertain ourselves as to how the Tribunal judges do, is his statute the way the rules of judicial practice and is it something that is reaching, is all those that should be done there are provided. After all, they have rules here, for example. It's said that you don't know if that compensation is triggered, namely who will? There is, if anyone is interested, we should all be interested in each other as citizens, especially if there is something we want to write about and make some findings that the court has started it, but there is no such information yet. Therefore, there is not only, I at least what I read in this information, this information service in front of the tribunal. She says she started it and there's no answer from those who decide. So, about how the court works, I think it's pretentious in this conversation, and because of what this is going to hear and if you know those victims, we represent them. If we start here in Parliament to attack that one institution that has tried, and here it is, how many years since the war ended, we haven't, I won't have my own problem to bring out, but it really does hit me, I haven't solved my own problem today, and nine years since the war ended, because we don't have a judiciary, no people, no wishes, no will to clean things up. We don't, and if we had, it would be fair to sit down and everybody would say as people, as a state if we said we had to be who we are, let's do it so we can all find and appoint these individual people. Who are they? It's known in that system. Suddenly, 84 turns out no one was guilty of anything, and we were killing each other, so many people died and in what way and in what accident some things were happening. Somewhere they may not be, maybe you don't have that feeling. I come from the middle where this terrible thing happened. So, I think we, the only court who's accepted to do it and to do it. We cannot do this in a parliamentary discussion, at one point, in the fatigue at which time we give the tribunal's assessment. That's why I think that's what this report shouldn't be. And let me tell you, I'm a member of this committee, but I've come here recently, and I was there when this report was adopted. I really couldn't, I couldn't say some of these observations back then, because it would be degutant then, I wasn't involved in anything, but today as a man who has a chance to say about this, I'm still involved. I'm really sorry, and I don't think that this is bad, I just think that this has to be from the commission so presented that what we are, what we need to protect man, everyone, is that part. And this part of some of the conclusions relating to the work of the court to stay or to form themselves in some other form, so that one debate is made about it and from that for the demands of this trial and that, I agree with this to go to the Ministry of Justice and that in that sense it is obvious whether it can be organised and how to do so. Here it is, because watch out for this Commission conclusion if they have everything and these connotations about the Tribunal will hurt the victims, believe me. Because they only have that someone out there will still be responsible for what they are and even this is all about, slowly and this and that, but we can't even influence it. If we want justice, it's not a fact. It can't go that fast, because it's just too hard. Look. Exactly the truth seems the hardest to prove, and the lie is very easy, because. Here's my thanks and I'm done.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16661	You have a replica. Here you go. Mrs. Ruža Sopta. Please. Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16662	I don't know where the moment came from that we're trying to protect or attack The Hague tribunal. Well, people, we speak the words of those people from the D.A.'s office who have seen their own shortcomings. I didn't really know they weren't judging by the law until I got there. I didn't know those rules had been fixed 38 times by then. Is there anything else I don't know? I didn't know they didn't have the right to compensation, that's what I knew and asked a question there. They confirmed that the Security Council formed this tribunal, without that item, without the right to compensation. From everything we've asked, it's possible that now, after these stories we've been asked, after our questions asked, the Security Council may have asked them to define it, because I openly told them that there was a lawsuit. 85 I think 8 or 9 prisoners who have joined one association and have taken up a lawsuit for the protection of their rights. My whole, I think we should focus on the first points of the conclusion and that's why we put them first, which is that The Hague Court meets its function of justice as a prerequisite for reconciliation here. Mrs. Sanija, I understand your situation if you say you had more IDs. I've had it, too, and I honestly say it, but I'm putting this whole thing aside. I'm asking that everyone responds to that command, but if they do, if we don't leave those people who aren't for me, you might say they're not people if they could personally do some crimes that are below human level. So that it doesn't remain uncondemned, that they don't remain unprocessed people who, by false testimony, have endangered other people's human rights. I don't know why we're attacking the tribunal. We, the tribunal, want to make it even better for him to perfect himself, because he is changing. It is such a position, it is changing, it is being upgraded, it is being upgraded and that as such it comes to a perfection where the real culprits will be responsible for their mistakes, because we can build a future in BiH and that is our goal.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16663	Okay, thank you, Mrs. Sopta. Mr. Sead Avdić, replica. I've got time now, we've taken a break, I can take a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16664	Not only the command responsibility, but the direct responsibility of the perpetrator, etc. But believe me, it's not a mandate. We can't... that's the problem. There's no dilemma at all. Believe me, it's not the Commission's mandate, nor the Commission with which... believe me, and I especially agree with you, how to do that, you just need to find a way to clarify it. But it wasn't the Commission's mission, believe me. It's not really an apology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16665	Thank you. No more reports, but after the conclusion, he answered, you'll get the word, of course, I just have to say it's known. Mr. Honorable Representative Mr. Muhamed moranjkić called, and I'm giving him my word now. Here you go. He will, of course, speak briefly.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16666	Very short. To hang up, I keep social property, so I put on a hat.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16667	No more social property, it's state property. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16668	Is this private?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16669	State.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16670	I even get the impression it's private. I'm a little sorry, the jokes aren't on the loose.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16671	Come on, it's a serious subject, so it's not a joke joke.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16672	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members, I have listened to the report, read the report and I have seen something that I am looking at very briefly, which is that the report is what it is and probably it is a reflection of the number one feelings acquired on the scene, the justice and justice of the people who were there, that is, our people who were from Parliament, who were there in front of this, or on behalf of this commission. Perhaps he, I think of the report, is not under the supposed signs sometimes looking at all aspects appropriately written and perhaps needs to be fixed. And that can also be done by me from the four addresses Mr Belkić said and I suggest in the part of our conclusion that this report is only in this context to go through those addresses in the extreme to compose itself under alleged signs. Perhaps there should be some qualifications in the report to do or to set otherwise, but this is all what I think about not seeing people on the committee, but the recommendations that the commission wrote. Perhaps this qualification of some can be entered in terms of sharper or less stricter words, better laid down legally, etc. So, the feelings of vision cannot be changed and I would never pressure this commission to change anything there, but qualifications and recommendations can and I suggest that this report be completed in this light, at least the part relating to the recommendations, which will be returned to The Hag in a certain way. Certain misunderstandings, which were particularly pointed out here, are connoted as no longer knowing how the defendant seeks his damage, how to ultimately help this Hag not to come to him or how to qualify those who are not legally there as certain witnesses etc. I suggest that in the report, or in our recommendations, it goes in the form of a question, to hear what The Hag says about it, because in the end it should only say that in a certain way as Parliament concerns us, and if it is a wave and if it is, and if it is, and I see that it is a little bit of a phenomenon that they are, and that they are, at the very least, drawing attention to the solution of that question, while they are doing it and doing it. These are my questions, which I suggest you accept. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16673	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. There are no more applications for discussion as far as I can see here, and I would not have wanted to answer anyone's reply, so I don't know how subjectively anyone experienced the discussion I made, but, apparently, from your discussions that this report contains some qualifications, which are not meant to be in this report as well as those who wrote the report. It is evident that this report does not contain any qualifications which, otherwise, should also have the findings it should have and that, too, came from a discussion and, of course, contains qualifications. I wasn't talking about them, I was just pointing out, in my opinion, the troublesome places in the report and those qualifications and findings that stand. Who may have something to do with the finding that BiH is demanding that the Tribunal fulfil its post of justice as a precondition for reconciliation in BiH. Niko of us can, and all of us, are because the Tribunal is fulfilling its function, its function of justice, and, of course, or, let's say, is required of competently attractive institutions, primarily foreign affairs, to raise the issue of material compensation before the Tribunal and the UN organisation of the persons in custody, who have been released from the indictment. It is a universal principle in all criminal legislation and I have not talked about those elements, which, in my opinion, are not controversial in this report, but I have highlighted several elements that are very problematic from the aspect of this Parliament's role and I have been obliged to say it. So much for my answer to clarifying my discussion. And now, by bringing this debate to an end, we have two options. I think that we should do the following thing, here, evaluate that it would be good to have this report, so we have done in other cases, or, let's say, that the commission responsible, this commission that did this, to consult with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, say the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, and that afterwards, given all the discussions that we had here today, therefore, a complete stenogram delivers to Parliament an innovative report. If we can, if we can agree on this conclusion proposal. I think that would be the best way out of this situation. I'm opening a debate on the proposal for this conclusion. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16674	My colleagues and colleagues, I did not report for a debate on this information, because I counted that in the part where the Commission said, it was a fact-finding statement of what she did on that trip and visits and in the part where she passed on what the people she was talking to were saying to her, there was simply nothing to object to but to admit it to knowledge, as something that someone simply informed this House and this Parliament. If, on the other hand, the claims that these commissions were such are required from this home that the conclusions that he would possibly have adopted would not only be conclusions for the purposes of conclusions, but obligations to activity, which is not only activity, would not only be the activity of this home but also other competent authorities of 88 of this country. There may be a series of initiatives here according to this or that, among other things, perhaps to the Court, if possible. So, if it is not the intention of the conclusions just to write, then it seems quite understandable to me, but it is not in any way a devaluation of what this Commission has been thinking, it is quite logical to tell me, and if it is the Commission's position to ask this home to adopt some conclusions on this matter, then this proposal that Mr Džaferović made, in some ways, seems logical to me in that part. Why? If it were really to be brought in, because behind this should be Parliament's action and the competent authorities, it should be put in the position of the Justice Ministry, it should be brought in by other bodies to jointly come up with something that would be the action of this country on this important issue, not just one commission, and from that point of view I would be willing to accept, we are talking, therefore, about the conclusions of prolonging this part. This part, if behind it, needs to land the action. And if it's only a mere receipt of knowledge, then let this be received to the knowledge as the Commission's thoughts. But I don't see the Commission thinking that way. And, really, but I wouldn't go in that part any further. There are, of course, suggestions that should be right with, let's say from the legal professional absecction some procedural things and others, so we examine and maybe work it out. I would ask the Commission to think so, too, if it wasn't for the devaluation of her work, I guess that's what this house is thinking.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16675	Thank you, Mr. Ćeman. Things are clear here. The Commission proposes concrete conclusions. The Commission's report suggests conclusions, and I think, following what it says, the second thing is that these are only findings and is taken into account. Here, there's a debate opening. What can I do now? I can't do it. Please, Mr. Kunić, I concluded the debate and suggested a conclusion and then opened a debate on the proposal for a conclusion. Come on, but very meek. This debate may take a maximum minute. The commission has spoken, but today Dom has spoken.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16676	Based on what Dom said, this should be defied. I guess that's the point, but let's not question the Commission's report now. She has achieved a fundamental function in her term. The quality of the debate was, quality proposals and according to other institutions and then home again. I think that should be the conclusion. I have to answer this. Most MPs did not question the recommendations.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16677	Thank you. Mrs. Sopta, you've already answered this subject three or four times. Please take care of yourself. I'll give you my word all the time. Here you go. The debate is only about the proposal for a conclusion. 89
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16678	So let me, as a member of the Commission, as a member of the Committee on Human Rights and as a man who went to visit, have the right, here, by your conclusions, to say the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16679	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16680	I was just about to say we accept, since there is no chairman of this committee here. I think that, here, consulting here as much as with someone, that it would be good just what you suggested to go towards these institutions, but not to question our report, because the report just reflects visits, nothing more. It is also our goal for these institutions to be interested in these things and within the limits of their opportunities and rights to take so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16681	Okay. Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16682	I'm not going to talk about this problem, but I was thinking of proposing a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16683	Well, I suggested a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16684	Well, I'm right.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16685	There you go, there you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16686	I'm just asking why we sent these people down there to the Committee, if they could solve it all upstairs or upstairs. Is it true what they wrote or not? That's why I want to define myself. Is the Commission report true or not? The proposed measures may be questionable or not questionable. What they could have looked at there, so you yourself just before, Mr. President, said that universal principles are not the principle there that is represented. Thirty years people spent in The Hague and they wrote it. Thirty years and they're not compensated, and there's no measure within which he's paying people back. That's why I draw to the conclusion, to adopt a report without this section, which refers to measures. These measures may also be our subject when they visit these institutions that you have spoken of. So we reconcile two proposals, which are here as a conclusion, and what about Mr. Zorić's proposal to visit him annually so that she can get into that part. So I wanted to make peace with these two. So, the report that we're not touching, because it's been adopted on both the Commission and here.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16687	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. Who else wants to talk? Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, my proposal was quite clear, the proposal for a conclusion, that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives was in charge of this committee to carry out consultations with those surrounding institutions, and that, on the basis of this and the overall debate, which the House of Representatives said here today, delivered to this home an innovative report. That's my suggestion. Please, please, this is my suggestion. Can we agree on this proposal? I'm calling you, I'm putting the motion to a vote. I invite you to vote. Well, I'll suggest. This is my proposal. I know why I suggested such a proposal, because there are things in the findings that we agreed to and past the measures, so there are things that we agreed not to, we agreed that we shouldn't be standing in the report. That's what I heard from the discussion. There are many here, beware, one of the findings that the tribunal's concept is bad. He works without a jury, he doesn't have the right to appeal, etc. We said it was a thing, I heard it from people who discussed it. Please nice, I'll put all the proposals to the vote, no problem at all. We have two ways out of this situation. This is my proposal you heard him, therefore, that the House of Representatives tasked the committee to consult with these institutions that I counted and then, after that, given the complete rapsage here, deliver to the House an innovative report. That's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16688	Just one sentence. On the trail of your conclusion. To welcome the work of the Commission, so people have been doing, going, all of this you've concluded, don't let us baffle, do it, innovate, let's... let it stand.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16689	You've heard the suggestion of my conclusion. We will discuss this subject once again on the basis of this inaugurated report if you accept this proposal. I'm calling for a vote. Vote now. 18 for, 7 against, 3 abstentions, no entity majority from RS. This one's going to be a match. We don't have a member of the College here. I don't know if we can go to the second round.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16690	And if we don't agree, we'll go to the second round. 91
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16691	There is no, therefore, majority of RS entities. I call upon MPs who are against this report to vote. There's a vote going on. We're continuing the vote. Secretary of the House, please interpret. Thank you very much. There have been situations like this, Mr. Živković, as long as you want, it's only a problem when it's seen that there's not enough number that can prevent a certain decision, it's problems, but there's no problem. Please, Secretary of the House, here's an interpretation, and that's how it's gonna be in all situations. Here you go. Secretary of the House interpreting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16692	I'm pretty tired, too, but we'll try. Given that the proposal did not receive an entity majority from the RS, I appreciate that no voting procedure can continue in the second round, as the third member of the College does not exist.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16693	I respect that we will not continue the voting procedure in the second round. When he's a third member of the College, that's how it's gonna be, but that's how it's gonna be in all cases in the future. Thank you very much. Crossing points 16 of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16694	... inform the SDP Club, what we have decided here today, as they take great care of the citizens of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16695	My colleague, you can do the same, and you're a representative in this house and you can do it, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16696	Stronger, you as president.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16697	All right, let's move on. Ad.16. The proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an investigative commission to determine the degree of radiation of poor uranium and the consequences of BiH citizens' health, Hadzic, Han Pijesak, Bratunac and Majjevica and other locations, poslanik Jelina Đurković, submitted a proposal for a conclusion on the formation of this investigation committee. You have received a proposal for a conclusion describing the activities the Commission would have had. He's opening a debate. Here you go, ma'am. 92
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16698	Mr. Chairman, our colleagues and colleagues are already very tired and I would like to speak briefly and explain it briefly. You've reached a conclusion, he's on the trail of an initiative that's been to one of the previous sessions, and I wouldn't be explaining anything right now, there's no need. I only have one suggestion. Six commission members are scheduled here, and my colleagues have been given a suggestion that it would be good for the commission to make nine members because of the volume of work ahead of the commission and I have no objection to this commission being composed of nine members. In that case, it would be two to three, three members from the RS and six from the Federation, so I would beg. I have even seven names here that have agreed and wanted to be on this committee and now I don't know if I should first Mr. Chairman wait for Parliament to be appointed by number six or number nine, so I would talk about names. I need you to fill me in on this.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16699	You see, first we need to adopt a conclusion on the formation of this commission, and then we need to determine its composition, so we're going to vote twice. That's what we've been doing so far. Here you go, Mr. Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16700	Well, you see, I might be able to help if I can. We're on the last one, I say, going back to the last assembly meeting, we had one of these reports. I don't know if my colleagues remember. Believe me, here's what I'm gonna say. I'm sure what kind of report these commissions are going to be. So there's going to be a report saying there's nothing. So that's to say for sure. I'm simply asking the question of what's the part, I think we're gonna spend a lot of time and money and not do anything. If there's something to do, then I need to be in charge of saying some professional institution, and it's primarily working here, and I'm saying, let's say, if something on the ground is going to be measured, it's going to require very expensive devices. I think we have a measuring and standardisation agency. This may just be thinking, so let's put someone in charge of doing it, but this commission of ours, not honoring anyone, I don't think they'll do anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16701	Thank you. Who wants to talk any further? Mr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16702	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, based on this presentation of my distinguished colleague, I say a few words about the truths in BiH, which sometimes takes time for them to mature and to talk about these truths in BiH and when a certain period passes. It was also about the truth that smoking did not harm health, so that after a while we could talk about it and see why someone was hiding the truth that smoking would harm health. After spending time from the commission's report and today, many things have changed. You have a report from the Italian health ministry, which, as well as new cases, is much larger than it was at the time that they were infected, or 93, that they were exposed to radiation and that they were affected about it. I think if the Commission found yours, I didn't get it, I got that report, that there were no BiH citizens who were in those divisions, that it wasn't true, and I'm expressing my doubts about it, I'm not saying that the report of this commission would be different, but I think that the truth has started in BiH to get another form and that we too from Parliament have to say about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16703	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mrs. Đurković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16704	We can't close our eyes to the truth and we can't tell because there will be obstructions in the work of this committee that we don't need to form a commission. I think this is a Balkan problem. So, it's not just the problem of BiH, that's what the media is writing, it's not just writing, it looks like at least our media is writing, but it's written in Italian, it's written in French, I don't know in the East, so it's already become a public secret. Why are we afraid to say that, and why are we afraid to say that our fellow citizens have terrible health problems? Six months ago, I wasn't at the funeral of a dead man who died of a common illness, only six months ago, and years ago. Guys, let's see what our health is like. I'd like to say there's nothing to say, but why don't we appoint this committee and let her say it, and then we're calm.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16705	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Nakaš.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16706	Mr. President, esteemed colleagues, life teaches us daily, at least to us dealing with human health, that there are indications that the terrain in which we live is contaminated both nuclearly and chemically and biologically. It can't be proved directly by physical methods and chemical search methods at the moment, but we're in health care able to look at the consequences of it daily. It is certain that the number of malignancies of all organs from the skin to the central nervous system has increased enormously. It is certain that there is a whole series of diseases that are difficult to explain to some agents, etc. I think that the formation of this commission is fully justified and that it should work permanently on these jobs, using all the institutions, all the scientific capacities available, not regretting the effort to invest in some institutions from outside, that we finally have information about the state of our environment, the state of contamination. You know the people talk. The people of all sorts of things are saying that things have been put off here, we have the right to know the truth. If we're going to get to her, I don't know, but it's entirely justified to set up this committee. 94
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16707	I thank Dr. Nakaš. Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16708	...the explanation of Mr. Nakaš, but this is a project of people. Has anyone given a mandate to what this commission is going to do under one. Who made the selection of areas that were contaminated. 3. What financial resources do they need to implement this project? How much will the BiH Parliament weigh? What kind of experts do we hire? What institutions? Well, guys, we're not a farming cooperative here. We are the BiH Parliament. So, the project, all the data that we have, and with all the algorithms that we're going to do, and only then can we trust the commission to do its job, but in this way, an instant word accepts just so few sentences of this serious problem, in this way we approach it unreally, I can't come to myself. I've been suggesting to a colleague, an elaborate with all the elements needed to form a commission. Well, I guess I won't accept the mandate of the BiH Health Protection Institute or the mandates of some other institutions, etc. Convince me what this commission is going to do and what is its mandate and what resources do they need to accomplish this job? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16709	Dr Nakaš replica, then Mr. Živković, is it a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16710	... a member of this parliament witness the formation of many bodies and bodies dealing with unemployment. This is one extremely serious thing and you can't wait for some project to form this commission. The question is the future of this country. It's our children, their offspring. There's got to be something to start with. You would immediately start with the projects, we will create a project and we will find a funding mode, etc. But it has to be done believe my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16711	Please, Mr. Avdić, you were the chairman. Mr. Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16712	On several occasions, Mr. Avdić, my dear colleague really surprised me sometimes with his discussion and I don't understand what purpose and reason he's saying it, because he hasn't spoken to me about what Mr. Nakaš said about the formation of other commissions in this way. We never gave mandate to the commission, told them where their funds were, first we formed a commission, so the commission gave its statutes, proposed to this home what to do and how to do. We Minikad said we'd do it all. If this commission meets 95 and says that it is in charge of BiH and that it is determined and that it is responsible that the financial resources are necessary for it and that we cannot continue to do so, so... if you want to build a commission like the Italian Parliament that makes the law on how the commission works, then we should do so, and not that you are now on this committee telling us that the commission should have a mandate or so. When have we done this before? Where is it, give me one we made that way? Give it to me. How did you get on this committee to reason like that?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16713	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16714	I apologize for my emotions when I talk about some questions and don't mind me saying so, but my colleague Živković just proves that I'm right. So, if we've been wrong so far and we haven't given mandate to the commissions, let's just keep going simple. I repeat, what is the commission's mandate? What means? Which institute? What result do we expect from this commission? Who made the selection of areas that were contaminated, etc. So it's not just like that. Eh, now because we've been doing projects like this with a lot of improvisation and why this Parliament has trouble with feedback, the commission report, let's keep going. Here you go, but I don't want any part of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16715	Mr. Živković, please sit down. I apologize to you for this procedure, you didn't get your word, and please, when you get your word, you'll get your word. The Republic has a vice-president, Mr. Martin Raguž, and you prepare for your replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16716	I checked in with the replica earlier. For me, this argument that Dr Nakaš made is actually crucial, and I think it is so strong, that this parliament should form a commission at the moment, after these words. The commission please have them identify. I don't know what areas these are. Let him identify all the areas that are affected by the team, if they are affected, that's her mandate, not that she's selectively doing this or that area, and that's what the commission is going to do, and he's going to suggest what methods she needs, which people, which institutions, what everything she needs. I find this shocking to hear. I knew when I was in the Council of Ministers, we knew there was a real danger, but now that that danger has been poisoned in this way for me is really reason enough for this commission, without us restricting it in advance. Let him set us up and we'll do it one more time, I think that's the way to do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16717	Thank you. Replica Mr. Milorad Živković. 96
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16718	I have not reviewed the new Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliament, but I believe that after two years of work by our commission of this Parliament, the Rules of Procedure have done and what the investigative committees should have and what the mandate is and what it is to avoid coming into this situation to discuss with counterpart Avdić. This is where two questions are asked. First, is that commission necessary? I think so. And secondly, are we going to break this commission the way we've worked so far? I don't think we should break, and with our new rules of procedure, if that's settled, then the more reason to be satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16719	I thank you, too. This is Mr. Tihomir Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16720	Here, we'll vote right after this. First of all, I want to say that we have experience and that we have had, which is quite a lot of investigative commissions and that now asking the question of the stage of the commission's work is, what Professor Avdić says I fully understand it, but it's not just not supposed to be a subject right now. It is necessary to conclude that an investigative commission is being formed, and I say the investigative commission has experience that will propose to Parliament depending on the phase in which it will go and what it will do, it will propose in its report. Therefore, the other thing is that it has personally defined me as a human being what Dr. Živković and Jelina were saying, especially when Dr. Nakaš spoke, and this should be more serious in Parliament when it comes to this area, means Parliament's health and concern to take special care of it, is a defining factor, and I think that we should not go further on about it, but rather reach a conclusion and form an investigative committee, and it will, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, our capabilities and this capacity that will be envisaged here through the composition of people, help us to solve this issue. Whether we're going to get to the truth, as Dr. Nakaš says, but we need to show one concern and motivation to get to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16721	I thank Mr. Gligorić. Mr. Sead Avdić, what is it now?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16722	Let me just say that I agree with what Mr. Gligorić is saying and Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16723	It's a replica. 97
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16724	That was my background. Not against the commission, but to have the commission look at both zones and the needs of material resources and work plan and to propose to this parliament how it will work. And that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16725	Thank you. Mrs. Đurković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16726	What Mr. Avdić was talking about, I meant it. We're talking about an initial step, the need to form a commission. It is understood that the commission will have its work plan, work programme, working methods. Well, I guess we're not little kids. And that means the financial plan, of course, but this is the first step right now, this is a decision whether we want that commission or not, and I think it's necessary to form that commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16727	Thank you very much. Keep going. I'm closing the raps. Muhamete, did you want to do it? Altić Muhamed.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16728	I'm replicirati Sead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16729	Who Seadi or Sead?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16730	Sead Avdić. Please, colleague Jelina has a good purpose and I think we're misreading her except for Dr. Nakaš. She wants a commission, which is for sure, because we're not professional here, maybe individuals are, what it's supposed to do, what it's all about and what the terrains in BiH are, which are contaminated. Therefore, I see no reason not to form a committee of Members of Parliament, which will contact the competent institutions, which deal with this problem and expose to us here what it proposes. She's not asking for anything else, please. Now that I'm not talking, I'm gonna cut it short, believe that we're doing it for our future, for our children. Because in the war there was a dirty war and dirty weapons and chemically polluted and uranium polluted, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16731	This wasn't a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16732	You want to elaborate. What kind of elaborates? 98
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16733	Be careful how the debate goes, the debate is practically over. Here, now the debate is reopened and how to whom, but here you are, Mrs. Majkić, new to Parliament recently, here you are.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16734	Niko one argues that such a commission should, but no one can dispute that the exact work programme of that commission and anyone who wants to get back into the situation where we came here today to dispute many elements of the commission that went in good faith and thought that she did the job best and we didn't finish this job today. So, please, for every commission we appoint, it is necessary for it to present to this Parliament a clear concept of what it will do for how long and how much money. Does anyone mind that way?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16735	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. So, please nice, you've got the suggestion of a conclusion. The proposal for a conclusion is done and what the commission will do in this paper. You could have read all that. You all got it, and it says here that the commission's tasks are to identify in BiH, to identify the locations in BiH where radio active ammunition was used. It then identifies the degree of threat to these areas and the consequences of human health, especially children, animals, plants as well as other natural resources, determines what measures the competent institutions of BiH or foreign institutions have taken to tackle the situation (consequently) in these areas. The investigative commission should be in its work, the method of holding meetings, Mr. Avdić, don't apologize, don't talk, what I have to say, don't talk, let us do the job. The Commission should, in its work on the method of holding meetings, public hearings, direct tours, the involvement of experts, and so on, to come to the truth about the problems identified, and to submit a report to the House within six months. Professional and technical affairs will be carried out by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat during the commission's work. And, above that, an investigative commission of the House of Representatives is being formed to determine the degree of radiation in the impoverished uranium and the consequences of human health.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16736	This in the bracket doesn't need, since it's, it's in the mandate...
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16737	In Bosnia and Herzegovina. You heard the suggestion of a conclusion. We're voting on whether or not we're going to form this committee. We're voting on a proposal for a conclusion, so we'll depend on it on names then. 99 Prepare to vote. Vote now. May I have your attention, please? We'll have the session in no time. 26 for, no one against, two abstentions, 17-9 there is an entity majority, we formed this commission. I'd like six names, please. Six names is enough.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16738	I'm seven here, so somebody call me who won't. Jelina Đurković, Milorad Živković, Ljiljana Milićević, Vinko Zorić, Ivo Lozančić, Mubera Ušanović, Nadžida Mlaćo, two more are missing by nine. There are seven names here now. One of the three of us is out. Dr Živković. That's what I wanted.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16739	Please, I suggest two more Dr. Nakaš and Mr. Suljkanović and then make it nine. Dr Nakaš is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16740	Since I'm dealing with the treatment of consequences, I'm really very much engaged in my operation in the O.R., I really don't have time. I can't accept it, but that doesn't mean I don't justify the existence of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16741	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16742	Dear Chairman, same about this list, please. One of the reasons why nine people are proposed is what we have here all the time, and that we often don't have a quorum to work with. It's always easier, I'm not saying that Mr. Nakaš has to go with the other members of the Commission on the ground and check it out, but I think it would make a great contribution to the Commission's work with the instructions and the way that the commission would work. I think that his entry into the commission is necessary in this regard.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-18-0.u16743	Thank you. I would ask Dr Nakaš to do as much as his duties as his priority allow at the hospital and to supplement this proposal with these two names, the other seven and plus Dr Nakaš and Mr Suljkanović, he is a professor of the university and 100 can certainly help on that and I suggest we make a statement about this composition. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is most of the votes, which are constantly abstentioned, 27 for, against, no one, one abstention. I apologize, with a sufficient entity majority, for adopting this conclusion. We're going to the 17th point of the agenda. Ad.17. Giving consent to the ratification of the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes of Violence b. of the European Convention on Transfer of Conduct in Criminal Matters, the European Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, d.a. Consular Convention between BiH and the Republic of Turkey, e. the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Italy on the mutual regulation of the road transport of passengers and loads, I suggest that we make a statement in the package. Is there a problem with being in a package? Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina unanimously with 27 votes in favour, with no votes against and without votes abstentioned and enough entity majority, ratified agreements under points a, b, c, d, i.e. how I read today in a stenogram and we move to the 18th point of the agenda. Ad.18. A proposal for a conclusion by Mr. Petar Kunić, which calls on the BiH Public Service to provide technical conditions for the direct TV transmission of the assembly session, the session of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to open the debate on the proposal for a conclusion. Anybody want to talk. I'm closing the debate. I invite you to prepare for a plea. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly with 21 votes in favour of, 2 against, 2 abstentions and with a sufficient entity majority adopted this conclusion. Dear ladies and gentlemen, please just a little while longer, I announce that the 52nd session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina ended at 17:00 and 55 minutes on the same day as the meeting began and I inform you that in the first ten days of March of the month we will have the 53rd session of the House of Representatives. Thank you very much.
