ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4742	Dear delegates, honored guests, dear representatives of information funds, I welcome you all and open the 47th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Before we begin, I want to congratulate people with Islamic confessions and wish them good luck to Ramadan holidays that with the words of Bajram Šerif Olsun Olsun, Ramadan holidays. There are 14 delegates present at the session. Of which from the order of the Bosniak people 5, from the order of the Croatian people 4 and from the order of the Serb people 4. Mr. Goran Milojević is officially absent and please, and 5 is a Hrvat pardon. For the 47th session, I suggest the next agenda, 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions, 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 46th session of the House of Peoples, 3. Voting on the draft Law on Public TV Service in accordance with the BiH Constitutional Court Decision number: U10/5, 4. Proposal for an amendment to the Constitution of BiH, 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the proposal for a law on the indirect taxation procedure under emergency procedure in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 6. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the proposal for a law on the forced collection of indirect taxes in BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House, 7. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Pedlog Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises in BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 100. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 The request of the Council of Ministers of BiH to consider the Law on the adoption of the Act in amendments to the Law on Tax on Transport of Products and Services, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 9. The request of the Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law on the revision of BiH institutions, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 10. A request from the BiH Election Commission to consider the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the BiH Election Law, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 11. Proposal for a law on BiH's defence, first reading, 12. Bill of Service in the Armed Forces of BiH, first reading, 2 13. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Rights of Members of National Minorities in BiH, first reading, 14. A Yearly Security Intelligence Platform, 5 / 15 Information on the state of BiH's external responsibility in 2004, 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Convention on tripartite consultations in order to promote the implementation of international labour standards 1976, 17. Giving consent to ratification of the Framework Agreement between the European Community and BiH on the general principles of BiH's participation in community programmes, 18. Giving sagality to ratify the Treaty on a comprehensive ban on nuclear testing, 19. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Slovenia on the mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters, 20. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Slovenia on Extradition, 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the BiH-Montenegro Treaty, on mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters, 22. Giving consent to ratification of the BiH-Montenegro Treaty on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters, 23. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between BiH and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the avoidance of double taxation and prevention of tax avoidance in relation to income tax, 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on the amendment of the Agreement between the Government of BiH, the Government of the Federation of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters, 25. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on Legal Co-operation in Civil and Business Matters between BiH and the Republic of Turkey, 26. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on Tourism Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of BiH and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on co-operation in the fields of culture, education and science. You've heard, I've read all the agenda points and I'm putting the agenda on the table. Namely, is anyone answering for a word? Any changes and additions? Here you go. As far as I can see, are there any changes and additions to the agenda, I ask again? Đoko Pajić,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4743	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and fellow delegates, honored guests, I suggest that points 24 and 27 be removed from the agenda for termological reasons. I don't know why the terms are used, the ones that don't exist. Point 24 states that the Agreement between the Government of BiH, the Government, etc. and also in the 27th period between the Government of BiH and the Government, etc. The rest of the agenda stands nicely, the Council of Ministers or BiH or something like that, and here I see no reason why such terms do not exist in BiH. For these reasons, I suggest that the 25th and 27th points be removed from the agenda. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4744	Thank you very much. Here we have heard Mr. Đoka Pajić. Is there any further changes and additions to the agenda? I put it first, that's because it stands in the agreement itself. Here you go, Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4745	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow envoys, respected representatives of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the international community of NGOs and media representatives, I welcome you all together. I think, Mr. President, that about what Honorable counterpart Pajić said, we should nevertheless be made clear to the Council of Ministers, to hear the argument why this is so formulated and to see what we can do now, not to go lightly over this remark which is clearly defined and for which there is certainly an appropriate argument for which we all know. So once we take that off and see what we can do in this sense specifically, and not question what has been done so far through the signing of these documents because it is clear that there are two partner countries and we simply do this if we take down, and we do not clarify the situation we will remain an untrustworthy partner in relation to international entities. So it's about two countries in Turkey and Germany and I think we should hear here an indication of >The Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4746	Thank you very much. I'd, uh, we'd have to hear our commission first, let's see, this went through our commission and see what they say. Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4747	I can't. I have advisors from all sides. Since I am taking the opportunity to welcome the chairman of the House, to welcome my colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community and representatives of the public, or the media, and to express my surprise for this proposal by Mr Pajić for one reason only. I guess Mr. Pajić, like everyone else, could get the documents he's calling for. So these are international agreements and contracts that have long been prepared that have passed the usual procedure of approval from the principle presidency, passed the negotiation procedure where the Council of Ministers led the factical process of negotiations, also passed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in which from 2003 to today, a representative from Republika Srpska, who I believe has the same feeling for the difference between the government and the Council of Ministers, past consent of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, the House of Representatives, etc. etc. 4 And here we are in a situation where fellow Pajić asks this question. [[or work...not understood]] The answer is very simple. This is about documents of international character that sometimes use the notion of the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I suppose the reason for that was and remained what some countries want when they negotiate something they have on the other side of the government on behalf of the state, not something they don't recognize as the Council of Ministers that they often don't recognize. In order to understand seriousness, it should be kept in mind that this is about negotiations with the Federal Republic of Germany, with the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany which apparently agreed to sign one such negotiation and which was also one of the negotiating parties who sought the text and agreed to the text. That's the way it is with this member. If he looks at counterpart Pajić's little agreements, then it would be interesting to say at all, there it is said that, on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina, affairs, when it comes to criminal affairs, co-operation in criminal matters there are directly mentioned in the agreement by the Ministry of Human Rights and Civil Affairs. We have the Department of Justice today. It also raises the question of why it's left like that. For a very simple reason. Because at the time of the negotiations, there was no Ministry of Justice, and then the negotiator was that and that. So, in this sense, we today have the Ministry of Justice and of course these jobs will be operationally done by the Ministry of Justice, and the agreement still states the Ministry of Human Rights and Civil Affairs. So some of these changes are possible after the agreements are ratified. At this stage, and we are actually in the final step of ratifying international agreements. There are no changes, there are no unilateral changes, and there can be no changes, especially as these are formal issues. And you finally have a memo here in which this issue was asked by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency by the chairman of both homes, which are said among others – a decision to give consent to the ratification of the credit agreement and guarantee between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a guarantor, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina government as a guarantee, etc. and then he says -- considering the above-mentioned agreements, it was found that the text of the agreement was used by the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina instead of the words of the Council of Ministers. Please comply with the provisions of Article t.t.t. Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the process of making ratification decisions in the text of the agreement, amend the amendment, make the corrections to those words. So this is about the next one. If there is a print error, it is possible to change it now. If this concept is used all the time, then it is necessary to ratify this agreement and then change these issues. Here, I say now in these agreements that we have on the table at this time, so right now we have on the table, you have at least three agreements that the business bearer, maybe even in 5, these agreements that are on the agenda today that the holder of an agreement on the part of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state of the Ministry of Human Rights and Civil Affairs, or civil issues and human rights, I don't know exactly what it's called. And this hour for these jobs is the Department of Justice's jurisdiction. We can't change it today because it's been through the whole procedure. The moment we have ratified, then we will carry out this harmonisation, which is considered a technical adjustment, because in the meantime we have since 2001 when the 5 negotiations on this issue began to date, we have received the Ministry of Justice, so it is possible to fix it. The same way we should treat this, and I don't think there's any reason to do anything right now, because nothing can change unless it's a translation issue. At this point, I do not have the texts of these agreements either in Germany or in England or elsewhere, but the text of the agreement in our languages in the official languages of Bosnia and Herzegovina really mentions the word Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that notion went beyond the procedure that I counted. So, Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency once, and for the second time, the Council of Ministers, international negotiations, control of the foreign affairs ministry and the House of Representatives and our commission. I think it would be a good idea for us to come forward about this in this way, get on with it, get on with this today, and we might be able to re-initiate on the trail of this. This letter was made in 11.1.2005 on the basis of this, it may be re-initiated that not only these agreements, but possibly everyone else where the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina has the notion of harmonising after being ratified in the procedure provided for in the agreements themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4748	Thank you very much, Mr. Čengić. Here we have heard the opinion of the President of the Commission. Is there any further discussion on this issue? Mr. Pajić, can we talk about this further? If we stay to vote on this, or if we do, maybe after these explanations you'll withdraw this request. But what's
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4749	Well, here I would, I would appreciate part of Mr. Čengić's response that at the time when negotiations were held, there was no particular ministry, there was a second name, another ministry, now we have another ministry. But at the time there was a Council of Ministers, there was no Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in that part I do not accept that argument. So then there was the Council of Ministers or Council, as who called it. In principle, all those involved, who negotiated, had to take care of it and the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, of course. Because in the Constitution, it's decadent what it is, who it is. Whether it's the government or Council of the Presidency, it's all regulated. So in principle, someone was asking a question, I think, two or three sessions ago on that issue. I don't know if we got the answer, but it's often withdrawn. So the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina should still be respected and what it says in the Constitution should be done. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4750	Thank you very much, I'm through with this from Mr. Čengić's explanation I've now pulled out, I could draw another question. Are we going to think about conditionally accepting this so that we accept this to go, and that the Government, or that we order the Council of Ministers to do this technically, I'm going to say that it's a technical mistake, that it's not a fundamental mistake to fix it, that it's not coming, that we're not getting into a position that this ratification is spoiling our further affairs. I agree, Đoko is right here, but we should also accept these agreements. If we do, here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4751	I'm sorry to hear from you again. I think it was the address to ask the Council of Ministers for this. This should be requested by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4752	Great.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4753	Because the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina is in charge of international agreements. That's the way it is. So, if we're going to ask, and I agree that we should ask for this change on the title that instead of the Council of Ministers' Government, because it's perfectly okay to be in line with the official names that are founded by the Constitution, but to make these others that are now becoming formal, or technical corrections they are not. So now we really have a ministry we haven't had before. Therefore, in this sense, we should perhaps do this, if Mr Pajić agrees to go in this way, to declare ourselves today on these points, and to draw conclusions from the House on one of these two points, and to say that we are asking the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency to launch an initiative to bring all international agreements into line with the existing constitutional arrangements and the names of institutions involved in commitments under international agreements in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4754	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. I come after this argument, after this attitude and this proposal by Mr. Čengić, once again, let's see what Mr. Đoko thinks, before we agree on what's common in our home to agree on everything and then vote on whether we have to take care of it. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4755	I'm not against it, I'm absolutely not against it, and I need to support and ratify these conventions anyway. We can do that, but I wanted to point out that part of the problem. Here's the deal. Let's go to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4756	How about in a discussion, and at this point, we tell the Presidency to ask him to do it in the future and fix it. Yeah. Thank you very much, then. Please, please. Here, sir, I thought we were done. Đoko, you set the thing on fire. Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4757	Well, we can't all talk in a voice. So it's me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4758	And you've forgotten Čengić, you've done something else, I thought I'd profuse you, but I can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4759	Well, I know that. So it's about the next one. I'm sorry that at the very beginning of this obvious session with a lot of agenda points, I hope it won't be too long, I have an idea, so here if you let me at least briefly expose it. The Foreign Trade Policy Commission discusses the Law on the Basics of Road Safety in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The law went through the entire procedure of the House of Representatives, was on the Commission on our commission, it was discussed and the Commission agreed on a text that goes towards the House of Peoples. I think it would be a good idea to put this agenda item on the agenda today, this item on the agenda, and we're considering this law. Whether we're going to consider it only in the first reading or in both readings that's the second question, but I think it would be very important for the following reasons -- this law has been working for over three years. He's been through a very wide procedure and a very good procedure. It is hardly possible that one law has experienced as many good changes and changes as it is in the procedure, in the Parliamentary Assembly. And let me just say in the end, no matter what you get the report and what you have the impression that it is now one horror of amendments and the horror of the law, because 93 I mean the amendment in total in both homes, or on our commission, I have to assure you that the law is not at all a horror, but the opposite, that it is now a very good law, well regulated law, and that it can be roughly, in my opinion, one 7-8 of the amendments that have already been renewed on the commission and that have not been given most of which we can plead here, and everything else has already been resolved. 8 Why am I saying this? Because in case we make a statement about this law, there is one, one very serious consensus between the two homes of the Representative and our home. There's 80 amendments adopted, there's still another twenty and there's gonna be a big deal of reconciliation, and then there's a re-approval of that alignment at both homes. It would be good for this law to see the light the day before the end of this calendar year and to be very open, don't be angry, this law is a fruit of the great and serious work of the promoter, and that was the Council of Ministers and a large number of members of the Parliamentary Assembly, but also a huge number of experts and other people who participated in his work. In other words, this is one of the laws that is very large, but, above all, the fruit of domestic work and domestic effort. There would be no reason for me to think that in our home we have been running the procedure again for a very long time, because in that law, to say under quotes in a political sense there is absolutely nothing controversial. The differences that remain are purely technical and may concern one or two to three questions. Thank you. I suggest that this point be classified as the 14th point. So between the current 13th and 14. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4760	We heard Mr. Čengić. And a proposal and an explanation. Is there any discussion on Mr. Čengić's proposal and even on the agenda? Here's Mr. Brka for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4761	I welcome you all. Just a very short one. Is there anyone from the professional service to explain to us whether there is a problem with Mr. Čengić's proposal? If there are any, we'll know. If we don't come forward.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4762	Thank you very much. As far as I can tell from the Department of Traffic, there is. Please. Yeah. Here you go. Here comes Mr. Jukić. Turn it on, you've got a microphone there.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4763	Well, hello to all your colleagues and all those present in this room. I don't know, actually, for me, there's no relevant reason why we should put this law on the agenda today. It's not about any rush, no deadlines. There's been a lot of amendments to the law. I don't know if the professional services of our home and the joint have managed to arrange and organise this, and yet I have no reason to be against it. So I think when these two things come out, and I suggest we leave this in the regular procedure as it is imagined because we're not going to get or lose a nine. I don't think it's some time period or time period that means anything to us about the date of adoption and adoption of this law. The law is really big, important, important. I appreciate that, however, I will repeat that I do not see any valid reason for us to be in a hurry today with this law and that here is the proposed agenda to a good extent and we agree and additionally burden it, because it seems to me that we have a lot to do today and I don't know how much it is, for this reason we need to continue to burden the agenda with one equally important and point that will certainly take a lot of time to consider it at the end of the end.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4764	Thank you. Are you done? Thank you, Mr. Jukić. He answered the word Mr. Radovanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4765	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the Commission I do not know, I wish I could support Mr Čengić's proposal, but, if I understand, Mr Čengić suggests that we go in the first reading today. With this first reading, we will get nothing, and I agree that we should adopt the law as soon as possible, both by agreeing and the need for adoption, but by first reading today we will not get anything in time if this law is well prepared and we have in the next session both in the next session and in the first and second reading and we end up at the same time as we would have finished it in the second reading at the next session. And I think it's very important for this law to prepare well, given the number of amendments, the amendments adopted, the renewed amendments, so that today's first reading at this session won't get us anything in time, on time to pass the law as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4766	Thank you, Mr. Radovanović. I just have to say one thing that we're doing this agenda here at the College has been concise and adopted and shared the materials to you for what we've prepared. Now we'd have to do a lot, none of the MPs have the material, and now we'd have to let people read it for sure, and that's one time. I am inclined to ask Mr. Čengić to give up his proposal, but note that the next agenda is to hurry up with this law. Maybe we should do it at the next session, both in the first and second readings, and eventually get those deadlines, and at that time, if that's the key. So let's say we might try to pass this law by the end of the year. I'd agree. But let's face it, this is a serious agenda, really this agenda will have very important laws and will be amended to these laws, there will be serious discussions and it will be a long time. I'd also like to ask you to try and leave it for another session. Here you go, Mr. Čengić. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4767	Respecting the views of my colleagues, and if we agree that this will be included in the next House session, I withdraw this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4768	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Thank you for understanding. 100%, I hope to the College, here's a certain way we've taken over the obligation to put it on the agenda from this session and be at the next session in the agenda. So I hope that we have discussed the debate on the agenda that we haven't had, was there a proposal and that, in order to conclude that the proposed agenda remains that there is nothing to add or subtract and I put the agenda on the vote, namely, sorry, we haven't changed the agenda and it is therefore adopted and it is accepted as it is. It should not be put to the vote, because there were no changes. Thank you very much. Our next item of the agenda is Ad.1. The answer to delegate questions and delegate questions was answered by Mr. Čengić and Mr. Boško Šiljegović. I call upon colleagues to, Čengić has received two answers as to whether. I call upon my colleagues to plead whether they are satisfied with the answers or not. Mr. Čengić. Mr. Čengić is pleased with the answer. Mr. Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4769	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have received a reply from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina government and a response from the Federal Ministry of Interior of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm happy with the answer. The problem was very serious and very complex. In fact, it was a problem to store nitroglycerin and nitro glycol in the Knights. There was theft and alienation. I'm just going to read that in one break, 14 pieces were alienated against armored missiles, 86 pieces of hand grenades complete, 54 pieces of the body of a hand grenade without a lighter and 189 lighters for hand grenades. So there's been theft and alienation, there's been a crime report, there's been an ongoing procedure. The government of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina has committed itself in a response I received to discuss a report on the security situation and the situation in the Knightsite and the Knightsite Cromen at the first session. A number of measures have been taken by representatives of the federal interior ministry of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federal Ministry of Energy, Mining and Industry, the company's management, the Police Mission, the EU, the stabilising EUFOR forces, and I sincerely hope this will not affect overall security in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much. 11 I once again commend, unlike our ministries and Council of Ministers, I have received a record-breaking reply from the representatives I have read. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4770	Thank you, Mr. Šiljegović. Any new delegate questions? Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4771	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I'm simply envious of colleagues who are satisfied with the answers and here's a good trend. I hope to be able to make the same point here publicly soon. This time I will ask two envoys questions to the Council of Ministers of course. 1. What has been done concretely so far to implement the conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Peoples, which is obliged by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to take appropriate measures to protect the indigenous Bosnians? and 2. Why so far has the parliamentary procedure not been addressed with the aim of ratifying the Europol Convention and when will this be done? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4772	Thank you, Mr. Limov. He's reporting for the word Mr. Spajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4773	Dear Mr. Chairman and Honorable ladies and gentlemen, I welcome all of you here and the parliamentary question - What is the Council of Ministers doing, or the Directorate for Immaculate Taxation, on the rise in oil and oil prices, especially in connection with the increase in the price of oil used as fuel and for heating? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4774	Thank you, Spajić. Are there any other colleagues who want to ask delegate questions? As far as I can tell, no one's answering, and we're done with the agenda. The third point, i.e. the next item of the agenda, is Ad2. The adoption of the minutes from the 46th session of the House of Peoples Does anyone come forward? Does anyone have any objections to the record? No Niko's answering. 12 Who is for the adoption of the minutes of the 46th session? Please vote now. The Jadranko number of that vote. As far as I can see here from this record we've all voted for. So the minutes of the 46th session were unanimously accepted. The third item of the agenda is A.3. Voting on the draft Law on Public TV Service in accordance with Constitutional Court Decision No.: U-10/5 In accordance with the Constitutional Court Decision, we vote on the basis of Article 4(3) of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Is anyone answering for a word? Do we have a debate? Mr. Limov reporting for word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4775	Thank you very much. I suppose this dynamic will go in the direction directly to plead first on how, that is, what our vision and experience is, only the chairman, I would like to say that my approach is not to comment on the Constitutional Court's ruling and in that sense I will accept it as it is, and as far as the law itself is concerned, my position has been known from earlier, so this kind of law with amendments that have been passed in the House of Representatives will not be supported.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4776	Thank you very much. No Niko's answering for a word. I put to the vote the draft law on the Public TV Service in accordance with the Constitutional Court Decision, as I have read and ask you to vote. Who's in? Now. So we did vote 8 is for, 4 is against and 1 is abstentioned.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4777	For there were 5 from the Federation and there were 3 from Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4778	No, please, I have one remark that I have to tell Mr. Jukić here right now didn't accept this one, he was using the keyboard wrong. I'll ask you to repeat the vote. Yes, it is. Please, please repeat the vote. Who's in? Vote now. Thank you very much. Here we have finished the vote and we have – 8 in, 5 against and 1 abstention. 13 So the Law on the Public TV System of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in the same text as the House of Representatives adopted. Thank you, colleagues. The fourth item of the agenda, Add.4. Amendment I to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina received a report from the committee responsible. So this is the first reading and it's being conducted, first there's a debate on the necessity of principles and the necessity and principles. I put on, the House of Representatives adopted the amendment and at its 64th session held on 31 August 2005. Is anyone picking up? Mr Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4779	I welcome the chairman's fellow MPs and all those present who follow our work. I will therefore make a very brief statement of the position of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which discussed Amendment I to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and after the debate, so the Commission unanimously supported the amendment proposal, delivered it to the House for further decision-making. So that's what you have in the report. In the report we didn't write any other things we discussed along with this amendment, but I am obliged here to say that through the debate we also touched the draft bill on the salaries of all users of the Bosnia and Herzegovina budget. So BiH's institution. That was, that was one working version, so it wasn't a debate on the commission as relevant, because it wasn't relevant to the issue, but it was closely related to the amendment. We, therefore, can say this almost unanimously and the initiative to define these issues for Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget users for the first time in law. And we think it's a far more quality solution than having this amendment for which we all sitting here are neither guilty nor obliged, but we have been very often targeted by certain arrows in that direction. So it is a dejtonski formation as well as the Constitution, Annex IV and the complete Peace Agreement, and therefore we are aware that this is not just any speciality in this aneks IV for Bosnia and Herzegovina that similar, even in absolute terms, provisions on certain levels of government have other, even EU members, other countries. So it's nothing special. But here there was a single interpretation, it seems to me wrong here, this item that is proposed to be deleted in the Constitution refers to every budgetary user conditionally, so from the president of the state to the cleaning woman who works in the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, this seems both imprecise and incorrect, as this article discusses the mandate of those who are subject to it, however, as far as the term of office is concerned, it is clear who it is. These are elected, appointed appointed officials, etc. These are certainly not couriers or drivers or subsistences, etc. etc. So that's too wide, so this is an extensive interpretation of this standard that came from legal experts and I respect them, but I think they're a little bit 14 wrong here. We are therefore pleased to have led the same debate on the amendment that we supported as such, so that we should not be disturbed by any further considerations at the Council of Ministers. We therefore supported with enthusiasm that we have already found one dracht of law that will define the salaries and other obligations of the compensation of all institutions, all employed in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So now I'm saying one more, one promotion that happened, so it's not working, again I'm not talking about the act that was in the parliamentary procedure, it's about one working material that the relevant finance ministry sent to all the budget users to see what it's all about to get as many proposals as possible, to think there's one real text in the finance ministry. I think it went very wrong. It's a very sensitive question. It's already reached the public, it's got one conviction, maybe it shouldn't have gotten such criticism from the creators of this work draft that they were doing it in a more subtle way and in a different way not hidden from the public. That it's supposed to be a public matter. So I'm undermining a strict, transparent and public matter, but in that phase where we chew, where we reach some consensus, etc. So we've touched one question, we haven't decided on it, but I'll tell you in what sense I've been thinking it might be good to think about when it comes to the parliamentary procedure of the law that I'm talking about it to be a single set of laws in which there will be three laws that will regulate pay and other obligations for judicial bodies for executive power and legislative authority. So that's something we have today. Here, in one basket in one law, there is something that is objectively impossible to measure. An adviser, for example. So, for example, an advisor to the Bureau as a House representative at the House in the House of Representatives, the Council of Ministers has different jobs, different obligations of different complexity of work, different roles and do not necessarily have to be under the same coefficient and pay level. But it was put there, therefore, for all civil servants in all the authorities, one coefficient with that provision. So it's one balance known to us from the previous system and let's avoid it and let's leave it to these special laws to leave it there by the principle of this hierarchy is that he can emulate the work of a good clerk, a good substitute, a good clerk, a good soldier, a good cop, etc. Because it's all in one law when it's separated. So the boss there has the right of a body and rewards the same as he will punish the one who isn't. So now I've gone a little wider, because it's closely related to this amendment. So we find it very important and more important that for the first time since Bosnia and Herzegovina the internationally recognised state has its own parliament has its own executive and legislative bodies defined to receive each individual, but by law. We don't have it so far, we can't wait. At the same time, here to finish the story of this, I believe some other colleagues will come forward, and I will tell you again that I am not reporting in agreement with the president of the Club and the position of the Croatian Club on this amendment. So we support, we find it undisputed to delete this amendment, because we consider it a priority to have a law, and not to have it in the Constitution standing in the so-called 9.2. as defined and that someone interprets it in different ways. So today, let us hold a debate in our first reading, that we do not have 15 discussions and in the second reading, but that immediately the Council of Ministers therefore, the competent ministry hastens all processes in agreement with the international community, because it has been done and done all together and we support and accept and commend and that the issue is immediately defined and until it comes, if the chairman can finish, until the law comes to this House to decide so that the law is passed and we open the debate on the second reading and adopt this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4780	Thank you, Mr. Filipović. So I'm opening up a further discussion. I call, I only ask my colleagues to, as Mr Filipović says, as the President of the Commission is not on the agenda of the Payments Act, this draft proposal, and I would ask you to leave it and to discuss it, that we do not go to it. We're only talking about changing the Constitution, and we'll talk about this law when he's prepared, when he's arranged for what he's given us, this draft I'd tell us which one he gave us, given to the Council of Ministers when he gets the form and form of the law, then we'll talk about him and when they say it's a bill, then we'll discuss it, and this is a draft, and I wouldn't bring him into the assembly debate. I am therefore now asking the Minister of Finance to explain to us something about changing this constitution, this member of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4781	I'll welcome you all and congratulate you here on this new president, is this how he started this session with these things that are very bitterly welcomed? We have long discussed this amendment, and we, you know, are well aware that the story started when we adopted the budget for this year and when we came into the situation that we have to control public spending because we have common incomes, states, entities, Brcko District, indirect taxes that we share and in the context of this consolidation of all these common incomes, we have to as a state get consent from entities and those of us because we have a common body where we decide how we will distribute these funds and then we have our full freedom to deploy those resources as a framework and we still have our own fees, etc. in this expenditure page, then we share it on the users of the budget, and in each of the users of the budget we have as much as there is pay, compensation and the rest. You know that in our talks with the IMF, we had one big problem, and that was that the state was too, that the state was forming in a very visible form, which is very good, but that the state was showing intent to spend too much. And then, of course, they immediately looked at that pay and compensation item and said that it was very large and that it had to be intervened on that part, control consumption, and to prove good will, we also adopted the 2006 budget with 10% reduced salaries. You remember that. We never did it, and we didn't spend it because when we came to the committee of this distinguished home, then it was realized that unfortunately we weren't sufficiently familiar at the time with what it says in the Constitution, and then we found that attitude that actually made it impossible for us to carry out that 10% reduction. When we started talking further about what we should do, then we actually, and for the third year we've been doing budgets, every time we get to them, you 16 show you the budget, you say it's all nice, you've never passed the Pay Law. You didn't define that area. We get warnings all three years from one and the other home and it's constantly initiated and it asks the Council of Ministers to finally get it together and do something on those salaries, that, because you say it yourself, we don't know what pay is at the CIA, we don't know what it is here, there, etc. And let's see if that law, whether this really draft law is really going to make one text as agreed with the World Bank, because within the emsec program that we have with the World Bank, we're going to work together, states, entities, Brcko District, County and municipalities on global and common criteria that are going to apply to all these levels to control public spending. We have a group called the fiscal sustainability group in which we have representatives of the state, Republika Srpska, the Federation, the District, two counties, Sarajevo and Lebanon and two municipalities. And this bill we showed them, and they very much hailed as our esteemed representative of the existence of this law. They said that they really think it's done a lot, but it's a work version, and on the work version, especially when it comes to such a subject everyone can have comments and they're welcome and we're waiting for the remarks of this home about this law to see what we should do. But when we talked about the law, we never mentioned more than one law. We're really not the ones who will determine how much the law will be, but what we inherited, what we've come to, what we've come to realize and what we've done, we've done, and we've made a work version. In order to finally adopt this law, we need to adopt this amendment before we do, and this was one conditional job and the House of Representatives and this House said it was all nice of you to say, we will vote the amendment, you will not propose the law. So the law really doesn't have to be satisfactory, because these 7.5 thousand people who work smarter than the 15 that worked in the task force, and the task force was in these biggest budget users, so there were both members of the Bureau and those from the Bureau of State Security Officers Agency of the SIP, etc. It's been a lot of these people who have been able to influence it with some of their knowledge so far. But there's nothing we can do, we can't pass the law unless this amendment is passed, because the interpretation of that amendment is so. I'm really not a lawyer, you know, I listened to what we were told as a legal opinion. So, in the legal opinion it says we can't cut the salary for this budget first. We'll do it. It's the end of the year. Our execution is going well, we don't have to do it, but we have to pass the pay law. We finally need to take care of that area. This is the last year of the term of office that at least in 2006 we have some basics that will be acceptable. And really in that part of the work version, there's still time to put all of these together in a satisfactory way. We need to manage to how much resources we have, you know. That's why we need negotiations with the rest of the state, but here's the thing. The budget should be proposed very quickly. We're waiting for these demands finally for the budget. The deadlines are long gone to release the budget procedure. It's very important that we know this. We can't know this unless this amendment passes. So I went to take a picture of how I was, how this really went, and why it came to be that the amendment is now being given first to the Constitution. But the interpretation says it can't react to any, any one's pay unless it's done. 17 I repeat, the Council of Ministers voted unanimously, adopted, supported this amendment, we proposed a conclusion to the House, they adopted it, and we think that the procedure should end that all together, to try to vote this bill on wages as soon as possible, to try it as soon as possible, but to vote it out and then to continue to adopt the 2006 budget. There would be so much of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4782	Thank you very much, Minister, but I'll be free to make my point. I'm not sure that your proposal for a personal income regulation was on the Council of Ministers. Is the other thing, and I don't think it's appropriate at least to ask Dom to discuss the draft. That is to ask the House's opinion on the draft proposal. The Dom opinion gives an opinion on the law, and the draft of your House proposal cannot be discussed and that is not right. I think you need to change something in your work methodology, and that attitude towards the House, too, please, you should change. Home is Dom, Dom has a role and a function, these are people who are both chosen by the people to do what they do in the name of the people, and I would ask both you and the Council of Ministers for full respect. Thank you very much. Is anyone picking up? Here you go, Mrs. Rose. Haso, I'm sorry, Ruža called before you did. I'm still this is professional having a turn.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4783	I thank you, although Mr. Čengić was first. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4784	You always surprise me, Rose.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4785	I'll take advantage of it, so what can I do when it's truly yours,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4786	You're a decent man.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4787	But, well, here's my respect for his gentlemanhood. I welcome Mr. Chairman, Mr. Delegate, present to the gentleman. I would like to say that, in essence, Mr Filipović's proposal is acceptable and rational at this point because, as chairman of the Commission on Administrative Affairs of the House of Peoples and the administrative affairs of this Chamber, we had the opportunity, i.e. we had one item on the agenda – to consider the working version of the Law on Salaries and we had a series of shortcomings, i.e. a series of objections to this law, and we passed this on to the Council of Ministers. Normally, that version of work hasn't even gone to the Council of Ministers yet. 18 And I think that we should essentially support this initiative to go parallel with the first reading today of this proposal, and parallel to going in preparation for the amendment of this and the adoption of a bill on salaries that we certainly very much miss in many of these areas to regulate and do, and parallel to that and then the exacerbation of the second reading on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4788	Thank you very much. Here's what we heard from my colleague, Ruža. Mr. Hasan Čengić called. Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4789	Gentlemen Chairman of the House, distinguished colleagues, this item of the agenda and this topic would really be one very sad thing if it weren't as serious as it is. Why sad? Because we need to discuss the issue of wages on account of the IMF's position, one foreign institution that otherwise has full control over our public costs which someone can say is good, but essentially not only is it not good, but it shows that we do not have any serious will to take care of ourselves or the lack of will to take care of ourselves, and what is sadder than that is next. To talk to me today about two such sensitive questions that really only the devil himself had to come up with a single subject. The change of the Constitution as the essential serious and most serious political issue that can be a topic in any country, and in Bosnia and Herzegovina it is definitely one of the most serious and crucial issues of political nature. And on the other hand, in this atmosphere, the issue of civil servants pays, better said officials, not actually state officials, but officials who are so politicised by certain political centres of power and the media at one point before the introduction of VAT in fact in a pre-election campaign which has already begun that I am actually not at all sure that we can talk about these issues in a cold, open and very critical way in a way that we really bring out attitudes that are useful without being under the permanent impression of these two ambiences. So one public environment that is politicised in a way that officials spend a lot of money, while the public, while a large number of citizens are unemployed, with low wages, no pensions, etc. which is also true, on the other hand, the question that we are changing the Constitution on such an alleged banal issue that it is really funny that in so many important issues that we have had to discuss, so many important issues in which we objectively have already changed the laws, and we have not introduced it into the Constitution that we now suddenly put such pressure on all of us and such pressure on changing the Constitution and so much importance we give this amendment to the Constitution that it is really not serious it would be truly tragic and ridiculous. However, to get back to the beginning, so the only possibility we should talk about today is Mr. Filipović's proposal, which is to consider this amendment, i.e. the amendment to the Constitution in the first reading, to leave a second reading and to define a few key concepts. That this amendment and everything that is related to the change of the Constitution in this sense, we didn't initiate it first. Please, let's be clear about this-- unfortunately this was formally initiated by the Council of Ministers, but it really initiated by the IMF. So that's where we need to be very clear. 19 Second, that we are pushed into one situation or, or even if, by my assessment, there is no reason or need at all. Thirdly, if this issue were further politicised, I apologize to all the lawyers here present and to all the lawyers who deal with this issue, I am not a lawyer, but I will say this formulation that this issue is further, added to politicised by the legal interpretations of the Constitution. I have heard of a fellow Filipović, I respect him both as a colleague and as a lawyer, and I am inclined to be the same as such, and I am not an expert, but to understand that this provision of the Constitution must not be interpreted exclusively, but only in a way that this issue concerns those who have a mandate, who are elected and perform their function within a certain mandate. And no one else. Next question is cocoa coming out of this. When the Parlamentary Assembly proposed more than a year ago a certain law regulating the rights of members of the Parliamentary Assembly, including the issue of salaries, such a file was created that some media had been under the control of certain opposition parties for almost a year from the question of how much we live richly and how we spend our money so much money collected through the budget. We have a situation here today that we absolutely need to define things as follows. In my assessment, there's no need to change the Constitution in this matter unless we change it in other questions. And in that sense, I see no need to change the Constitution. I do not accept the interpretations I have discussed with the respected members of the Council of Ministers. But one very interesting question is being asked. One of the interpretations was you know it's not you from the Parliamentary Assembly, most likely that your wages will neither be reduced nor increased when this great mathematics is made, but they are God's judges and prosecutors. I am now asking the public a question for myself – who, four or five years ago, did it take prosecutors and judges in Bosnia and Herzegovina to be fair, so he decided under quotes that they would not be corrupt and that they would be honest and who today needs judges who would be less paid, perhaps less fair, if judges were more or less honest because they had so much or so much pay? I don't think any of the judges in Bosnia and Herzegovina would want to talk and hear the idea that his honesty and his professionalism, his professionalism, his responsibility in a job that works as a judge has anything to do with the height of the salary he accepts. I think that would be the lowest humiliation and insult of any idea of professionalism in the judiciary and the judiciary and that absolutely none of the judges or prosecutors would ever accept or say that. I personally don't think that's the case. And from that reason, I don't think it was necessary four or five years ago, if you remember with great furiosity to put pressure on and to make the decrees factually about high wages to prosecutors and judges who were then significantly higher than the average in Bosnia and Herzegovina than they were today, by the way. So who should have done that furiosity then, and today the same one who previously insisted on it says, you know, those wages are high. Meanwhile, there was no increase in wages. So those salaries are now high at a time when production has increased in Bosnia, when productivity has increased in Bosnia, when 20 is, when budgets and our increases are etc. I do not agree with BiH, so I apologize, I do not agree that these constitutional changes would now finally allow judges, prosecutors and others to be brought under quotes, to a normal measure of their salaries. I don't agree with that at all. And I don't think that's necessary. Next, why it is necessary to amend the constitution if officials are elected in BiH, those who are now in cantons, entities and at BiH level, the elections are except for municipal structures, elections are everywhere next year. Therefore, we have the next November and we have the opportunity to anticipate these changes in the next term and that no one can object at all to the Constitution and constitutional solutions. So, the constitution says during the term of office and does not foresee between the mandates. Why can't we predict these changes? If again in this whole story about slaughtering ox for a pound of meat, changing the BiH Constitution in this particular matter and not in any of the more important ones, it should be if it is necessary to look for a good side, then it is definitely one. It is, however, that the Council of Ministers realized that it was found in a sandwich between the position between the hammer and the anvil and proposed a bill on wages. And I think that's really the good part of this question and it's good to finally get into this situation that we have one law that we're going to balance, so the incredible differences that exist at this point, and balance the wages that are received in RAC, for example. and salaries received in the Parliamentary Assembly or in a more severe state institution. In this sense, I think it's really necessary to balance the wages. I think it is necessary to secure payments to those who do jobs, therefore, of state officials, and I do not agree publicly with the risk of being lynched to two addresses, by an international community that strongly advocates these changes and by the public, that is, some part of the public. I don't agree with the need to cut salaries to civil servants. No, I don't. In my opinion, a poorly-paid civil servant, is ill-loved. We can make whatever laws we want, we've discussed how many times, we have the law, we don't implement it. Who's law enforcement? He's not spending the streets, gentlemen. He's not on the street. We don't spend it here either. State officials have to keep an eye on that law. They have to spend it. If we want to have effective customs collection, effective collection of direct, indirect taxes, if we want to have effective inspections and everything else, do you really think we'll be able to have it with low wages? Do we really think that we can have a 500 or 550-mark cop's salary and that he's going to charge a fine with a single 500-mark offense and he's not going to deal with someone to take 50 in his pocket and there's no violations. I'm sorry, I'm not questioning anyone, but we have to be realistic, I don't think the savings we're talking about are going to be less than four million miles in a year, and according to the exclusive, legal interpretation of the Council of Ministers' mathematics, it's less than 16 million marks over the year, I don't think that's the main profit for this country. A much greater profit is the increase in income, indirect revenue in this year, which has already been made by over 100 million marks. So, good, honest, professional, responsible work of people doing that job, rather than reducing it. In other words, I'd like to say, well-known and access to the IMF which, as a rule, has only one cure. There's no cure that cures all the diseases. There is not one solution offered for all issues of macroeconomic policy, fiscal policy, etc. In that sense, I don't think it would be a good idea for us to go with the pay cut logic. It would be good if we went through the logic of public spending. I repeat, 21 public spending responsibilities, which will mean that we carry out our obligations towards external debt, to carry out our own domestic obligations, to effectively pooled revenues at which the state at all levels has the right and to spend effectively, in a way that those who work are stimulated and paid for their work, even if they function as civil servants or officials. And to conclude, in this sense, I strongly support it and I believe that this must indeed be a very clear conclusion of this House regarding this point, which is, that the Council of Ministers is asked that the Law on Payments be forwarded to the parliamentary procedure and that we, in the second reading, declare ourselves on this amendment after that law enters the parliamentary procedure. Whether it will be in three days or 30 days, or 60 days, it is no longer a question of us, but a matter of the Council of Ministers. I know that the Council of Ministers has done a great deal of work and I believe that in a very short time I can bring this law into parliamentary procedure. Any other solution, I'm afraid, would be very dangerous because it would put us in a position to unpack packages without knowing what we're going to get with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4790	Thank you very much. Mr. Jukić answered. Osman, please, Jukić called before you did, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4791	This is a very interesting topic. So it's about changing the Constitution. First, Annex IV of the Dayton Peace Agreement, called the BiH Constitution, was never adopted in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. What was the practice of other laws that were the result of someone’s long work and activities and positions and powers, etc., and not the jurisdiction of this assembly or this Parliament, was such that they were adopted first, and that they were then made to change and supplement them. So in this session, in our mandate, we had at least 5-6 of these cases when we felt the need to impose one, so we called it, the law changes, then we said we couldn't do it, but we did this law, let's say in some way notified or we kind of adopted it in a way that we adopted it. And only then did we get to change that regulation, the law, the decision, etc. This time, very interesting with the most important act, the legal act in this country, it's not working, it's going differently. Very interesting. And the other interesting thing is that the procedure that has been prescribed and for some of the most important laws has not been complied with, and that is to conduct a public debate. When changing the Constitution, it is not implemented, very interesting. At the previous point, I was really trying to refrain from commenting because it seems wise not to say anything about it. But the big question is what's wise and what's smart and what's the opposite. Big question. And often, in my life my first reaction to anything turned out to be the best and the best. But I often do things differently, so I feel guilty. So I'm going to do it this time at that previous point, I'm not going to say anything. And I'd have so much to say. I, as an illegal who participates in the work of the BiH Parliament, ask a lot of questions to the lawyers and ask them for answers to these primarily political issues and very little legal questions. But I said I wouldn't talk about it, and that's all I'm gonna stay on. 22 When it comes to BiH's macroeconomic policy, its fiscal part, and yet part of the expenditure or expenses, by order, on a trip, recommendations or orders from the IMF, it is said that it is desirable and should, probably so, bring public spending into some contexts below 50% of GDP because now in BiH it is said to be over 60% or at that level. And let's just say that it's quite okay and that's, say, the goal of who we need, therefore, as the Council of Ministers supported by this parliamentary assembly is to pursue. And that's okay. That's correct. However, the Council of Ministers, in order to rule and have control over public spending, consisting of a variety of whether, expenditure etc. First of all, he must have insight into the amount of the sum, the total amount of the wages to be paid. Let's say, just one level of government. So, employees in BiH institutions. I don't know if he's got 8,000 employees, neither do I, so we have to plan how many, etcetera. But we've hooked up here either on someone's orders or recommendations, etc. for the salaries of elected officials who have several hundred. So, just their wages are interesting. Let's just say it's interesting, too, that we should do it. But we're still doing it so unprincipled, it's amazing. Here's an example. For the last months or a year, let's say this is a condition that has been inherited, so we won't, like we don't have the strength or the will to change it. But what happens to institutions that have been formed in the last half-year, one year or more? Let's just analyze it. And ask the question of responsibility, what is the state of these institutions. On the subject of receiving me in Parliament, it is known how many receipts are, everything is known, it is known in the Council of Ministers, etc. But no one talks about these other institutions. Like that's normal. And now, very interesting, a year or two ago, we only advocated the right solution, which is to pass a law that's now done, one working material actually, it's not a bill of wages and we're already running into some kind of I don't even know, estimates that it's almost impossible, unnecessary, very complicated, etc. I think it's a law that BiH is amongst the most needed laws. And it was supposed to be done at least three years ago, even long before, etc. But I speak in our term of office. And that's why thinking about what they've put here today as a suggestion that we're also doing on the amendment and addition of the Constitution, Article 9, again, I said in what way, I'm not going to repeat it, we're doing it about the adoption of the Payments Act. And that's quite correct, and that's quite all right, and it's the least we can do to speed up this job and transfer some of the responsibility to the Council of Ministers to hurry up with the completion of the bill on salaries. Here, I won't last any longer but I'll do it again. If we really want to achieve fiscal stability and realise our public spending in real terms, the first step is that we need to standardise and regulate the issue of wages, establish relative relations and then after these relations are established, then, of course, by determining the coefficient, this is being summed up and brought to certain levels, as much as we want, or how many opportunities, etc. Only then can there be wage policy at BiH level. Another question, very interesting, when we mention wages. Pays are usually very interesting, it's about everyone. And those who don't want to talk about it are actually hypocritical because, like them, they don't want to talk about it, but at the same time they've provided themselves with it in such a very good, decent way, and then that's not the point. Because that's not their problem. The question of public sector salaries, not administrations, so public enterprises, etc., which behave not exclusively market-based because they use part of the privilege because they are the only ones, because 23 are mojopolists, because they are etc. etc. We have very interesting these days in our newspaper which are sometimes also critical but sometimes to praise, interesting analysis when it's said that the salaries of some directors or now they're called popular managers, you know, they say that I don't even know 6-7-8 thousand marks. Very interesting. It's as if it's due only to their work or accomplishments. We must be aware that this is primarily due to their position on the market, the activity of everyone working, the powers they have, the monopoly if they have, the works of the monopoly, etc. I also believe that the Council of Ministers, I am pleased to have several ministers sitting here, among them the most responsible for these issues, the Minister of Finance, that we should discuss it, think about it. Why not limit the wages in that part or prescribe them in some way. Partly knowing what is, in part of the success of their work, which should also be a motive to do better and better quality work, and not to act in a way that behaves as anyone wills and that's all right. And to change something, let's change the Constitution, be careful. Very interesting. And in a way that is not, which is contrary to the prescribed way of change. But I'm saying that on the question of some here and the press, and some other people, about today's agenda, what's important, what's irrelevant. I say, everything matters except this point one, the change of constitution. That's what I say responsibly. It's the least important because it's the thing that I don't even know who they're actually going to bring or take away, it's a big question. I personally think very little, everything else is much more important. And I said that there are more important things and questions that are interesting for the change that needs to be changed in the Constitution and in other laws than in Article 9 of our Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4792	Thank you, Mr. Jukić. Mr. Brka called for a word, are you still staying? You're staying, here it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4793	I thank you, and I would just like to say my comment here when it comes to this point of the agenda and when these two things are tied up. When I got my ear a few months ago that I was going to be offered an amendment to the Constitution on Article 9. I thought someone was joking with me. I really thought someone was making a joke. I said, where is the Constitution going to change now, I mean, it's me, I couldn't possibly accept it. When, day after day, Bog comes to me today the amendment to the Constitution, to change that. And that just tells me how many absurdities are possible in us. The amazing thing... is that human rights aren't the same to us, they're full of it. That's why I don't elaborate now. You know it as well as I do. But it doesn't need to be changed. No, it doesn't need to be washed, but let's start this here, something about it. It's really imposed on the side and I think we need people on the side but sometimes they do things they shouldn't do. I think it really shouldn't have done this, the change of the Constitution to start with this kind of banal thing, I think it's a mistake and that they're actually telling us how we can't do anything. And I think there's a lot of more pressing things to do before this, even though I really totally agree with all three of my predecessors who spoke, that the Pay Law really needs to be done, and we wanted to do it before, so they said no, you know all that how it went, don't, leave it. 24 It makes no sense that the state parliament gets paid at the expense of a decision, not the law. Well, that's nowhere in the world. And, I agree with Mr Filipović's proposal to have it tied up, and now I want to say as a member of a commission whose work I participated in, when we had this at the last session, to take advantage of the opportunity that the minister is sitting here, we really said there, and I think that we have sent you such a conclusion, I will paraphrasise it because I didn't have it in my hands, that you sent us an unserious proposal and that we, as a committee on a non-serious proposal, will not discuss it. We ask you to send us a serious proposal and then we can discuss it. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4794	Thank you. Here we are, I, if I'm right, here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4795	I will, in some respectable way, present something different about this question. The way the Constitution changes is prescribed, legitized, and it is very clear. And so today we have the opportunity to change the Constitution. The Constitution has a number of issues that really need to be changed, and we are aware that this requires both political consent and willingness to change that. One of the things that has been found in the Constitution, in understandable circumstances and for understandable reasons, I mean to all of us, is the provision that paying officials under the mandate cannot be reduced. It is likely that when an agreement was signed, when BiH institutions were created, it was necessary to ensure the formation of these institutions and some kind of attractiveness and opportunities to prevent obstruction in those institutions. That was the motive. In the meantime, he said, there was a lot of chaos on personal incomes and on the basis of day-to-day consideration of individual pay decisions because there was a field that had quite healed and what time I think was being arranged. Since there have been wage and swelling, certain agencies, appointed directors of the agency, received salaries of 5-6 000 marks, under the current Constitution, cannot be reduced. Since it is not appropriate for these institutions and directors of these institutions to have salaries higher than the largest legislative body in BiH, it would follow that wages must be increased in Parliament, in order to make the law in accordance with the constitution and in accordance with the actual circumstances. So in one word, one provision that was at one point for reasons justified, unwarranted, depending on how we look at it put in place, I think the time has come to change. What's going to happen by changing the Constitution on that plan? Nothing will absolutely happen, except that we will come into a situation where the Law on Payments in BiH institutions is developed in an appropriate environment, unburdened, unlimited, taking into account the objective state of BiH, the real opportunities that exist in BiH, the social justice that we must also take into account, so we will simply come into a situation that is unlimited and unlimited by unnecessary azolphs and circumstances and 25 restrictions we are building a law on personal incomes. Of course, who will pass the personal income law in BiH institutions? So we'll bring it in. We'll take care of all these things the colleagues talked about, we'll take care of the need to nivell, to adequately determine it, we'll do it, we'll do it. And by removing this constitutional obstacle, we are merely creating assumptions that we are truly in this role that is finally in the Parliamentary Assembly, we will achieve to the end with full responsibility and respect for all these circumstances. On the other hand, I support the amendment of this constitution by supporting, of course, a number of other things that are an obstacle to BiH, as is this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4796	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Đoko Pajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4797	Gentlemen chairman, fellow delegates, it is quite public speaking about changing the BiH Constitution and there are various initiatives and really shouldn't be a taboo issue of change in the Constitution. It is legitimately the right of the Council of Ministers to propose a change of constitution but I won't be long. I agree in one part of the discussion with most discussions of fellow delegates. In my opinion, and I'm going to talk about it a little bit later, a little bit more extensively, today we should have discussed changing the Constitution on a much more important and important matter. Just today, before this. It is also an issue that can be discussed, but I am inclined to support some of the ideas that say that we, in our first reading today, release this proposal and force whoever is authorized to put into parliamentary procedure and propose a bill on salaries. Therefore, I will support this request, with the fact that when it enters the parliamentary procedure at least the draft law in the first reading, when it comes to salaries, that we adopt and amend this part of the Constitution so that we can agree to this law. For now, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4798	Thank you very much. We've heard a lot of opinions and mostly almost the same. Little Mr. Genjac may have as he himself says a little different attitude, a little different viewing, and I believe that on this point of the agenda we have told everything we wanted to say and said everything we had to say. It would be my job to put this item on the agenda. So the question is, who's to adopt the amendments in the first reading? Who's in? Please vote, now. So the result is 13 for and 1 against. From the discussions we had and the views of most of the debaters, the question would be asked, and I don't think there's any need to move on to another reading. I think we are, Mr. Genjac, here we are. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4799	... which I have said and with the argument that I have made, adding that the amendment to this amendment refers to one provision very clear, precise, without the need for further consideration, and additionally for the reason that the Council of Ministers makes a proposal unburdened by restrictions and respecting that the House of Representatives adopted this amendment in both readings, I propose and ask that my proposal be put to the vote, that we do today's statement in the second reading. If we pass the proposal to move on to another reading, if it doesn't pass, then my suggestion is to make a statement in the statement in the second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4800	It's like this before, please. The first was the proposal given by the Croatian People's Club of MPs and the Serbian People's Club to put the proposal on the agenda, which is theirs, which is that we end this law only in the first reading and second reading, to do it in parallel with the making of this personal income law, the salaries, or when, for that matter, the Council or when the Council of Ministers comes to draft the law. That was one suggestion. Who's up for that proposal? Please vote now. So this proposal has passed. 9 is for, it's against 1 and it's abstention 1. So our decision is to continue the plea and discussion on the basis of when the law enters the parliamentary procedure. Because please be nice, it would be necessary given that the minister says they have this commission that's doing this, I don't believe they have a commission. I'd like to see the lists of that committee. Thank you. Please, I think I know who did this to the Minister, so we'll discuss it a little bit. Thank you very much. Fifth item of the agenda, Add.5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the indirect taxation procedure under an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples in accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on a request for the examination of the law under this Article after the debate. At its session, the Council of Ministers changed its request at the meeting of the House of Representatives and suggested that the law be considered in a shortened procedure, Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, not an emergency procedure, Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. The House of Representatives adopted this subsequent request by the Council of Ministers and shortened the deadlines for reviewing the law. If you'll excuse me, do you have any of the promoters? Here you go, 27.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4801	Here, please just for a minute. Why is this shortened procedure required? I guess I was talking so I didn't hear what you were asking. It is a law in a series of those laws that should be passed as soon as possible so that the Impaired Taxation Authority is finally at full capacity to put on its feet. So, this law is directly related to the Department of Implicit Taxation. He now speaks in his content of how this indirect taxation procedure is being carried out and we have a few laws that are in the management procedure, about forced collection, and I don't know one more, mostly which, those four should round up this organization to round up the Directorate for indirect taxation. That's why this shortened procedure was proposed because we thought it would be possible to pass this law sooner. That's why it's here.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4802	Thank you very much. I think we should respect this request and this statement by Ms. Minister, and I suggest and I think we should respect this request and this statement by Ms. Minister, and I suggest that, if there is a need to discuss this, we open the debate. There isn't. Who is it that the Law is being considered in accordance with Article 99? The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? Who's in? Please vote now. - 11 for, so unanimous 11 for. So let's go, you see the Ministers that Parliament is very serious. What's the reason we accepted unanimously. The sixth point is Ad.6. The request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the draft law on the procedure for contributing to the collection of indirect taxation in Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure, same case. Here's the minister. Does he have this one? Same case as this. Is there any need for the Minister to explain? It's the same package, so I'm saying the same case. I think we can support this, too. Who is it that we are considering the law in accordance with Article 99? The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? Who's in? Please vote now. Unanimity. I think it's unanimous. Chief, repeat this table to me. I didn't read it right. - 11 for and we're all here who voted so unanimously. Thank you very much. 28 What's the agenda point now? Seven. Ad.7. The request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations shall be decided on a request for the examination of the law under this member of the law, following the debate. The House of Representatives adopted this law as a matter of urgency. Madam Minister, it is you. Yes, it is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4803	You will see in the agenda that has this law, and behind it is amendments to the Tax Act on the Transport of Products and Services. It's the same thing in both laws. It's a very simple thing. You see, you just told us that there are at least four more laws missing about, that this, the work of the Department of Impaired Taxation would finally be brought into one whole, and we passed the Law on Excises, Excises and Sales Taxes together in 1.1 this year. However, there we set a very firm deadline for printing new tax stamps that are glued to cigarettes and how, of course, management was slowly established and that it did not go according to the expected dynamics tender was called, new contractors were ordered. There's someone out there who printed it and everything, but we didn't make it within this deadline that was scheduled to do it on June 30th or June. Please mean that you accept that today is voted by the urgent procedure of amending this law and this other, because it is only the following that the entity finance ministries and the Tax Administration of the Brcko District are authorised to ensure the continued printing of existing tax and control marks by the deadline set out in Article 29. etc. It means only to allow the printing of these stamps by entities to continue. In the meantime, it is actually a law that, to adopt this today, and the deadline 30.6. long ago, was out of question, the High Representative actually carried out this amendment. We now put this in the process means in the same text that we adopt it so that we can continue to make these changes under these laws. So only one very small change was and that's why the High Representative intervened within the deadline means that it just continues the process of printing tax stamps and continuing to collect. Finally, excise duties and sales taxes on these products. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4804	Thank you, Minister. I think it's clear here, and that's why I'm putting it to the vote. Who is it that the Law to adopt this law by membership is being considered by Article 100(2)? Rules of Procedure? 29 Who's in? Please vote now. So now it's unanimously passed law. So, in fact, it's not the law that's passed, it's the requirement to consider it in this Article at point two. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for the law? Is anyone picking up? So we're voting on the law. Who's in favor of adopting this law? I beg you to vote now. I'd say this is unanimous, too. Thank you very much. We're going to the eighth point of the agenda. Ad.8. The request of the Council of Ministers of BiH to consider the Law on the adoption of the Act in amendments to the Law on Tax on Transport of Products and Services, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House Reason and everything happens as well as for the previous part of the agenda. Please, I think that in this which is the minister's earlier argument is the same argument, so I'm putting it to the vote. When it comes to discussing the law, we should consider the law under Article 100(2). Rules of Procedure. Who's in? Please vote now. I also think this was adopted unanimously. I'm opening a debate on the law. Is there anyone who answers your question? Here you go. Not the eighth minister. So I'm putting the adoption vote, the motion to pass the law. Who's in favor of passing the law? Please vote now. So this law was passed unanimously. Thank you very much. The ninth item of the agenda is Ad.9. The request of the Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law on the revision of BiH institutions, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples shall be discussed whether the law will be considered in a shortened manner. The House of Representatives has adopted a proposal for the bill to be considered by a shortened procedure. Is anyone picking up? Madam Minister. If the minister would say so, that's Nušić's thought, and that's my favorite. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4805	The Law on the Audit of Institutions you know how long we've been talking about it and that the law should be passed and that in the meantime we're in a state of tea, that we're actually because of not passing the law we have a problem with the general auditor, the deputies, I don't know. And that's why we suggested that the law go according to the shortened procedure, that there be an opportunity to invest these amendments, repairs, and not be regular that would still be longer, although it might turn out to be faster, but here we thought it would be shorter, and it would have the possibility of action. That's why. And the law really would have been if it weren't for the sheep to vote today because we also have an organisational problem and we need to solve the issues of this species very quickly.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4806	We heard Mrs. Secretary's explanation. Who's to say that the law is being considered in accordance with Article 99? The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? Please vote now. Unanimity. So, yes, we voted for this law to be considered under Article 99. Rules of Procedure unanimously. And the tenth item of the agenda Ad.10. A request from the BiH Election Commission to consider the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the BiH Election Law, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples shall be discussed whether the law will be considered in a shortened manner. The House of Representatives has adopted the proposal for the bill to be considered by a shortened procedure. Is there a reporter here? Is there anyone on this committee? Mr. Vedrane, come in. Do you need to explain what? Is there a need for an explanation? So there isn't. Thank you very much. Is anyone picking up? Niko. Who is for the law to be considered under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House? Please vote now. And this is adopted. So unanimous. Thank you very much. Since we're a little bit wasted and we're gone and there's one very important point coming up that should be discussed, I'm taking a break for an hour now. So, what time is it? So pick up at half two. Thank you very much. As far as I can see and it seems to me that we have a quorum, we can continue to work and we have reached the 11th point of the agenda, and the 11th point of the agenda is a very important law. [[PAUZA]] 31 Ad.11. A bill on BiH's defence, the first reading, you received the law as well as a report from the committee in charge. This is the first reading of the law by Article 90. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. The Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina has adopted 8 amendments that have become an integral part of the Texas law. The House of Representatives passed this law in the first and second readings with one amendment. That's what I was gonna say. Is anyone picking up? Here's the president. Did you get Boško? The president of this committee I was talking about has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4807	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, given the importance of the laws ahead of us, which is the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the next, and given the importance of the reform in this area, since 10 months of the Defence Reform Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was formed by the decision of the High Representative, has done this work in the Defence Reform Commission and its 10 teams, as well as the abolition of the ethnic armies, the abolition of recruitment, professionalisation, NATO standards, decisions of the Entitio Parliaments, etc. etc. as chairman of this commission, I felt and I need to make a report on the proposal for a law on the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of what Mr. Chairman has already said about this proposal. On 19.9.2005, the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina submitted the draft law on defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for consideration in the regular procedure. Taking into account the position and desire of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the speedy accession of the Partnership for Peace and NATO to the Alliance in which the proposed law should be observed, and taking into account the need for its adoption as quickly as possible, in order to ensure the timely and adequate preparation of the 2006 budget proposal for defence, the college of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina reached agreement on the need to cut deadlines for the examination of this law. At the 43rd session held on 22.9.2005, the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the Peoples discussed the Law proposal and delivered an opinion on the existence of a valid constitutional legal basis for the adoption of that law and compliance with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the same day. The Joint Commission of both Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly for Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures at its 25th session held in 19.9.2005 was informed of the need for a faster review of the Law proposal and the decision of the colleges of both Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly and 32 June, and reached agreement on the timely maintenance of this working body's session on 27.9.2005. At its 26th session, held in 27.9.2005, the Joint Commission discussed the proposed law in question as the competent commission. Following the General and Discussions in particular, the Joint Commission declared the principles of the Law, the amendments tabled, and the Law as a whole as follows. 1. Principles of the law. The Joint Commission unanimously supported the principles of the law. 2. The amendments. The Joint Commission found that the Law proposal from the House of the Amendment was invested by the Club of Delegates of the Croatian People, the Club of Delegates of the Order of the Serbian People and delegate Hasan Čengić. Since the commission in question was a joint commission composed of members of both homes at the draft law from the House of Representatives, the amendments were submitted by Milorad Živković, the SDS Club, the joint proposal of the SDS Joint Club of MPs and MPs, then Dušanka Majkić, the Croatian Democratic Party's Club of Representatives, HDZ and MP Mirsad Ćeman. The joint commission, according to the majority, adopted 8 amendments that have become an integral part of the text of the law. And below 3. A statement on the law as a whole. The Joint Commission accepted by majority the text of the proposal for a law on the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina with amendments adopted, with the conclusion that the law is necessary, and proposes to the House of Peoples the adoption of this law. I repeat once again that the House of Representatives adopted the law in both readings, and if I suggest this high house that we as the House of Peoples today consider the law in the second reading, and in this variant we have five amendments to Mr Čengić, one amendment to the Club of Serbian Delegates, which is the same as the amendment in the House of Representatives, to come to the same text of the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4808	Thank you very much. Here's a report from the President of the Commission, Mr. Šiljegovic. Is there anyone else to answer for? This is in the first reading, the law in the first reading. As far as I can see, no one. Mr. Đoko Pajić. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4809	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mr. Gregorijan, ladies and gentlemen, I feel the need to say a few words in the shortest lines regarding the bill. We all know that the National Assembly of Republika Srpska decided at its special session of 13 August to transfer powers on defence matters to the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And there's no dispute. The decision was made by a majority vote in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska. But I have to say this time that on 18 May, this same National Assembly unanimously decided not to accept the transfer of jurisdiction to, in matters of defence at BiH level, but after a month and a few days, that decision has been completely changed and I know what it is and we all know. So, in the meantime, there was a lot of pressure, a lot of lobbying, and I respect, of course, the decision of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, but I must remind you that, at that session of August 30th, when such a decision was taken, a very bile and fierce debate was held between MPs in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska. And during the vote, of course, it wasn't two members of the Serb people's parliament that didn't vote, one club left the session. Several independent MPs in Republika Srpska's National Assembly have not voted. Therefore, there was no single position on the issue, from the order of the MPs of the Serb people when it came to the transfer of competence. Of course, there were plenty of explanations, discussions, etc. I'd like to say a little while ago, an hour ago when we discussed the fourth item of the agenda on amending the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I said I'd say about it and something later, so this is this opportunity. We today need to pass the Law on Defence and the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it will certainly be brought forward. But, in principle, when I was speaking on the fourth point of the agenda, I said that I should, before the Law of Salutations was passed, and everything else that goes along with it, it would mean that a change of the Constitution should be made, and then it would be the laws that would be in accordance with the Constitution. This time I just want to remind myself that when I took an oath before this house, I swore to honor the Constitution and the Dayton Peace Agreement. And it is indeed a decision to transfer the responsibilities of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is in accordance with Article 3(5). The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But these two laws we pass today are contrary to Article 5(5). The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And it's illogical for me, it's illogical for us to pass laws that are contrary to the Constitution. I consider both a lawyer and a citizen who logically thinks that every law must be consistent with the Constitution. I assumed that today should have been compared to the Council of Ministers or I don't know who, who proposed this proposal to propose amending Article 5(5). The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I think you know the Constitution and that in the Constitution in Article 5(5). The constitution explicitly predicts the existence of the entity's armed forces, entities. 34 We now pass these two laws that are absolutely contrary to that article and this Article 5. The constitution becomes meaningless. Therefore, for a number of reasons, but most of all for one single reason why these laws will be contrary to Article 5. The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina will not be able to vote for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4810	Thank you very much, Mr. Pajić. Here's Mr. Limov wanted to talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4811	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I will try to be brief and I have no reason to spend a lot of time unlike my esteemed colleague Pajić. I will give my voice without any remorse and support the passing of this law, I must say with special pleasure. I therefore believe that in this way we have come to the opportunity for the state to return to itself, because protecting territorial integrity and sovereignty and international legal subjectivity is what belongs to the state and I congratulate it on all those who have in any way participated in the preparation of these documents without which there is no talk of reform in this segment. Of course, there are no ideal laws and frankly I gave up the investment of any amendments at the start of any kind, because I didn't want in any way to put us in a position that this important project that was brought here in this way brought to our attention to the situation and that in any way I question all the efforts that have been made by those people who deserve that we have come into this situation. In this regard, I support and congratulate both my colleagues from Republika Srpska in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska who have indeed made one quality contribution that we can all, together with satisfaction today, bring a legal project that will, above all, be made possible by the need for the interests of our citizens, our country of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole, and only then is it the condition and the opening of the door to us, above all, for Euro-Atlantic integration, because, as we all supported a general commitment at the beginning of this mandate to set two key objectives. The first goal, therefore, is to join the EU, or the second goal, or if you want to, is to join NATO first. I personally appreciate that these two legislative projects enable us, first and foremost, to join us in the Partnership for Peace, and then I count on us to have more obligations in this sense and then there will certainly be opportunities to correct these legal projects through certain changes and complements and to bring them into line with the standards that will legitimize us as a credible candidate for NATO accession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4812	Thank you, Mr. Limov. Do we? Mr. Hasan Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4813	Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, Mr Gligorijan, respected representatives of the international community and journalists, I must say that I am surprised by the fact that I would ask the chairman to explain this to me, by opening a debate on such an important law, namely two important laws that make up a set of defence laws, we do not have any presentation of these 35 solutions by the Minister of Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Radovanović, who is physically present here. Well, I don't think that's good. That it's not good for at least two reasons. First because we're
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4814	Hassan, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4815	Let me just finish, and then you explain, so it's not good because it was normal for one such serious matter, to us who don't have to be experts in the area minister explains. Secondly, I would not like it to be interpreted in a way that the minister feels that this high house is not an auditorium to which he should present his reasons for this law before this law gives its opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4816	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4817	I haven't finished, by the way, since Mr. Secretary didn't have any opening statements, so I wouldn't want to speculate on his views and arguments, I have exactly 9 questions for Mr. Secretary and I'm going to ask him to answer each and every one of them before I answer for the discussion. In that sense, I would ask the minister to take note of the questions I would ask him.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4818	Can we do it later while the minister exhibits later? Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4819	When later? So don't let me, if the debate has started, and you've opened the debate, let me, so let me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4820	The debate began with principles and principles. This is a first-reading debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4821	That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4822	There you go, Hasan, but I still have to stop you. I'm sorry it's my fault. I just made a deal with the minister and he was supposed to go out and we agreed to go out. 36 But after the presentation, Đoko came forward and thought it would take less, and then, I must admit, by my mistake, he pulled the inert, and I simply did, it's a little bit of an oversight, if he can forgive me and take it as an oversight, but it's not bad that after that discussion, the minister will definitely come out and expose this project and say a few sentences about him. I'd like this to be appreciated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4823	As far as I'm concerned, it wasn't any comment on my part, but I would take advantage of the opportunity when I already have a word to ask the Minister questions, and maybe these questions will, too, I'll ask him directly for answers to each one of them, but maybe I'll help him a little bit in this presentation that maybe, that he'll eventually conjecture something in that general. So the first question is Sobzir the Law provides that the regiments will continue the tradition of the three armies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am interested in the answer to the following question: - What is the tradition, I will be very clear, I suppose there will also be some reactions that can be relatively nervous or hasty, issues are very serious and issues are written not only of the present, but also of the past and of the future of this country and of all its citizens and of all its peoples, and for that reason I will be very clear and very precise in matters, no matter how anyone can and otherwise interpret it. So the first question is this - regarding these regiments that will continue tradition and cultivate the tradition of three armies in Bosnia and Herzegovina - What is the tradition of the Republika Srpska Army? – Is that Republika Srpska Army President and Commander Radovan Karadžić? – Is this the Chief of Staff of the Republika Srpska Army General Ratko Mladić? – And are these military activities of the Republika Srpska Army which, among other things, participated in the destruction of Sarajevo, in killing more than 10,000 children in Sarajevo and in the genocide against Bošnjak? The second question: Making a strategy and a defence doctrine involves, among other things, defining potential dangers, or modern challenges. - What are the military challenges for Bosnia and Herzegovina from now on to the future, or more precisely which countries are a challenge to Bosnia and Herzegovina's security and territorial integrity? Third question.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4824	Could you slow down a little bit? 37
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4825	All right, all right. No problem. I understand. Third question: So when these laws are passed that we are talking about today and come into force, application, - what are the funds and instruments, funds and instruments available to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina for its defence? Fourth: - Where will the staff of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Army, officers and senior officers be trained, given the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina does not have and the law does not provide for the existence of any schools, military schools or military academys for these types of personnel? The fifth question: - Does Bosnia and Herzegovina have a military co-operation agreement with a state at this time, or some military defense alliance in the event of aggression? The sixth question: - When will Bosnia and Herzegovina become a full member of the NATO alliance? The seventh question: - How does Bosnia and Herzegovina plan to secure its defence, defend its state's integrity to full admission to NATO membership? Last question. So last 8th question: - What is the reason for this law of Article 70 is that entities within Bosnia and Herzegovina, the RS and the Federation are in an unequal position? The former JNA's properties are transferred to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Ministry of Defence, and the obligations created during the war remain on entities. Let me just remind you, according to some of the war commitment information only created in the Federation's territory under the command of the BiH Army were 5 billion KM. I'm not sure those obligations are relevant. This law stipulates that these obligations have to be implemented by each entity for itself, so the Federation for itself must provide funds, while at the same time former JNA funds, former JNA's properties are transferred to the state level and they cannot be used as such to compensate for these obligations. And the ninth final question: - What will happen to the current weapons that will not be needed by the future Bosnia and Herzegovina army? Thank you. After the answer and discussion I will answer for my discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4826	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. 38 I am asking Mr. Minister to take the floor and take it into account through the exhibition and these questions of Mr. Čengić and if it is possible to answer immediately. Break 10 minutes. Can I have 10 minutes or more? 15 minutes. All right. Mr. Minister, you're on the move. Jadranko, tell them to bring those waters. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4827	Before I start answering your questions, tell me how much time I have available.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4828	As long as you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4829	Mr. Chairman, members of the Kolegijum, gentlemen of the delegates and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, so several questions have been opened here and, above all, since this is the first reading of the Law on Defence in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so on the principles and principles, I would like, on the basis of the previous two discussions, to present some of the basic principles and principles on the basis of which a legislative solution was proposed. Regarding this problem, for the problem launched by Mr Pajić, concerning the constitutionality of the legal solutions, as well as the issues of Mr Čengić, I would only remind myself that during last week all MPs in the House of Representatives and delegates in this council were distributed the so-called blue book on the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that if not all, but most of these issues were offered answers there and I will present some of the contents that are presented there. So when it comes to the principles on which this legal solution is based, I would highlight three general principles on, or requirements that were present in 2003, or one part of 2003. So the first principle of defence reform by the Commission in the draft law was that the proposals are such as to the extent that they do not require changes to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The principle established at the NATO summit in Istanbul on 28.6.2004 to establish a single armed force and a third principle set up after, or the Commission accepted after the February 2005 presidency's position or decision, which is about Bosnia and Herzegovina's intention to join the collective security system through full membership in NATO. So these were the three basic principles which were also the framework managed by the Commission when the legislative proposal was drawn up. In addition, part of this framework has been set up by the High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina's decision of 31.12.2004, which established the Defence Reform Commission in this joint mandate and which has been mandated. Just to remind you that this decision sets before the Commission the task of making legal solutions that will form small, efficient and professional armed forces. The establishment of a clear chain of command is required, including the abolition of entity defence ministries and the abolition of entity-level command. So the Joint Command of the Federation Army and the General Staff of the Republika Srpska Army. It requires the establishment of mechanisms for parliamentary supervision, primarily from the level of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Armed forces are required to be fiscally affordable, not economically sustainable or affordable, as they were before. And to establish a single defence budget at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. To consider the justification for the existence of a reserve composition and recruitment system in the current sense and to consider opportunities for further professionalisation of the armed forces. What is not in the request of the High Representative's decision and what has appeared over time and, above all, for full NATO membership and for the request for a single armed force is the introduction, installation of this model system of regiments. So these are the general principles or requirements which the Defence Reform Commission has conducted in the construction of this legal model, both for this law and for the Armed Forces Service Act as well as for the Ministry of Defence and for all those involved in the creation of this. I would like to repeat once again that about 120 persons from Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice, the finance, as well as institutions from the level of entities, so both the Federation and Republika Srpska, so from the defence ministries, the finance ministry and some other ministries, as well as from the Federation Army and the Republika Srpska Army. International representatives included NATO Secretary-General Kolston's Special Representative, the head of the NATO Defence Reform Department in Sarajevo, Mr Gregorijan as co-chaired, as well as EUFOR representatives, representatives of the embassy as observers of the United States, the Russian Federation and Turkey. So that's the general framework in which this legal solution was created. When it comes to Mr Pajić's comment that the proposed model is contrary to the current Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, this issue was the subject of debate in 2003. It has also been widely discussed in the design of this model and the prevailing opinion of the legal experts involved in this and who have been consulted is that legal solutions are in line with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this regard, I think it is also important that this issue is discussed on constitutional legal committees in order in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, the Parliament of the Federation and the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that all three committees have found or taken the view that legal solutions have been proposed in accordance with the Constitution. 40 Very simple or the shortest possible interpretation of why it is so related to Article 5(5). The constitution you are calling upon saying that the entity's armed forces will not cross over into the territory of another entity and reside in the territory of another entity without the consent of the entity's government. Therefore, the interpretation is that these solutions will indeed not cross the entity's armed forces and will not remain, i.e. this safeguard measure provided for in Article 5(5). Bosnia and Herzegovina's constitution will not be violated, point 5. The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, according to the prevailing interpretation, is therefore not the purpose of the member to provide and guarantee the existence of entity armed forces, but rather the purpose of the member so as to install a safeguard mechanism in the Constitution that entities will not threaten each other with force. And in this sense, the existing solutions really do not create a legal or practical framework in which members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's armed forces would in any way threaten one entity, another entity or threaten security in any way in Bosnia and Herzegovina. When it comes to the group of questions of Mr Čengić, in general, there has been a model within 10 months of working on this commission which is at the same time a response to these principles and requirements which I have cited at the beginning of the one hand and on the other hand a compromise between different expectations and thinking and thinking about the defence system and, therefore, it seems to me that each of you or of us can ask 9 or the next 9 questions and express some kind of dissatisfaction. I think these issues are legitimate in the sense that they assume that Bosnia and Herzegovina is threatening the threat of aggression from concrete states, that in this sense Bosnia and Herzegovina must have a system of defence that is autonomous and self-sufficient to respond to such armed threats by concrete states, I suppose, from the environment, etc. However, in the shortest answer to so I am the model described in these laws not based on that kind of conjecture and in that sense I see the difference between what is defined by these laws and your way of thinking. However, when it comes to the first question, the regiments continue the tradition of the units from which heritage traditions arise and develop some new tradition and the meaning of the concept is that both the infantry regiments and those other regiments that are not infantry, primarily their integrity and authority are based on the future contribution of Bosnia and Herzegovina's armed forces and future missions. Also, they should not be forgotten by teaching and that is the specificity of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the tradition and characteristics of the constituent peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, these regiments in the infantry not only continue the tradition of the Republika Srpska Army in which you refer, but continue the tradition of the Army of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the HVO and it is quite clear that it is sensitive questions about what is acceptable for someone, and what is unacceptable for someone, and it will be one of the skills of the defence ministers that those who establish dates, events and all that will be the subject of the work of the regiments to make sure that both the two and the third traditions are treated appropriately if we talk about these three traditions. It is important to say that these documents are preceded by Bosnia and Herzegovina's security policy. This is a document that was started in 2001, and this document is one of the documents that in a conceptual sense is missing Bosnia and Herzegovina in a qualitative sense, and this 41 document prescribes and defines which are threats and security challenges for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as you have stated, not the Ministry of Defence, or the doctrine of defence. These documents you call upon are documents that answer questions related to the use of armed forces and defence threats and challenges. I would say that Bosnia and Herzegovina adopted several documents in this and signed several international instruments that do not put security, security and defence aspects of Bosnia and Herzegovina in a broader context. I would mention a final document from the OSCE Summit in Istanbul in 1999 that speaks of security in the modern world as indivisible and that therefore the basic threat and security challenges are not related to territory and state but to challenges that are not territorial in nature. I would also mention that the White Paper of Defence and Bosnia and Herzegovina, adopted by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency after a set of defence powers resolutions in 2003, explicitly states that Bosnia and Herzegovina does not recognise in its environment any kind of territorial threat or military threat in traditional terms, but that Bosnia and Herzegovina, in a modern environment, threatens sea challenges. Modern threats are corruption, organised crime, financial crime, human trafficking, terrorism and the like. When it comes to the explicit issue that the threat states are, so Bosnia and Herzegovina does not recognise in its official documents either as other countries in Europe do not recognise any threat, armed threat or unnecessary, to someone who needlessly in military terms endangers the security of citizens and this state. When it comes to the third question which means of defence instruments are available. Clearly, the primary instrument is the force for the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina that the armed forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina are in the process of granting the Law in defence of Article 4 to armed forces and stance b) points out exactly what you are interested in so that the task of the armed forces is to provide military defence for Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens in the event of an attack. Perhaps there is a depression here because the newspaper is in relation to our experiences and tradition, therefore, it is two aspects of providing defence for Bosnia and Herzegovina and for the citizens. One is internal and that is to provide defence, and the other is to provide external defence to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the event that citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are subject to capture or other similar activities that threaten their personal security in Bosnia and Herzegovina, institutions are obliged to use diplomatic and other means to provide defence to those citizens and such a solution in the law provides such an opportunity. The other positions of Article 4 discuss other contributions or tasks of the armed forces, and they, by their content, I think reflect these other considerations on security issues. Therefore, participation in international peace support operations including the fight against terrorism. It is also a traditional task to assist civil authorities in cases of natural and other disasters. And finally, what is specific to Bosnia and Herzegovina is against mine action in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, the vision of these armed forces that are models, which are models with new laws, is that they are capable of providing assistance to Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens in a number of dimensions, not just in the defence dimension, in this case, to attack from the territory of any state. 42 When it comes to training personnel of Bosnia and Herzegovina's small-state armed forces with resources such as Bosnia and Herzegovina's nrp. Slovenia or the Republic of Croatia train their personnel in a way that is considering models in Bosnia and Herzegovina to join armed forces at the level of soldiers and sub-offices with completed high school, to undergo training in training centres and then sign a professional contract. The same thing is with officers, the initial acts where the conditions for entry are completed and training in training centres that can be up to 6 to 9 months, so not expensive schooling at military academys. Also for the middle level of schooling, therefore the headquarters and general staff are expected to use the possibility in the first phase of education abroad and Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as at the highest strategic level. This model will likely develop as in other similar countries of similar size and resources that interest arises that at the highest level, education in the country is possible, as these strategic issues are of particular interest to each country and in this sense Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. the Ministry of Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina signed 21 bilateral agreements with 21 states of different content last year. Part of it is related to training and training, and during last year about 850 members of the armed forces went through a training programme through various programmes and courses, including high-quality education in the US in colleges in Turkey, Germany, Great Britain and the like. When it comes to agreements on co-operation with concrete states and alliances in the event of aggression, I consider it relevant here that Bosnia and Herzegovina is, unfortunately, still subject to the UN Security Council's decision on the presence of an international foreign military presence, so at this stage, the military presence of the EUFOR military forces, and that the basic primary task of EUFOR is to provide a secure environment in Bosnia and Herzegovina and NATO implies both protection of the interests and sovereignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the case you are calling for. EUFOR currently numbers about 6300 troops in Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. However, the EUFOR commander and forces on the ground of Bosnia and Herzegovina are also at the disposal of forces to quickly respond to NATO and part of these forces from the EU, so on the one hand, and on the other, even more responsibly to the authorities behind these forces. In addition, NATO headquarters was established in Sarajevo last year, which has no limited time in Bosnia and Herzegovina and which on one hand reflects on statements and NATO's reflection on Bosnia and Herzegovina's thinking and attempts to show interest in stability in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I understand that NATO headquarters's presence in Sarajevo is another guarantee of Bosnia and Herzegovina's security from situations that could be called outward aggression. Next in Tuzla at the ORO base since mid-year, they have been deployed continuously on the bilateral basis of the US unit's force. So these forces are not part of the EUFOR, and they are, I understand another guarantee of security and also what is under way is the conclusion of a status contract with the US government and this contract will be the first bilateral nature contract in the Western Balkans to establish a formal legal and institutional relationship between the US government and Bosnia and Herzegovina and me and the instrument expected to be signed by the end of this year as another 43 security guarantees. In any case for the next few years, and I hope no longer than 2007, the basic international structure in charge of guarantees in Bosnia and Herzegovina is EUFOR. Bosnia and Herzegovina's membership in NATO is not a question, in my understanding, for which the defence minister is competent to give an answer. NATO membership, given that NATO is a political military alliance is a common issue for the state and the defence minister within his portfolio can do what we are doing now. So to try to adopt laws that create preconditions through standardisation, through compatibility, through, through the size, structure and fulfillment of NATO expectations, but full membership in NATO means more than that. It also implies a number of other issues that are well-contained with the EU, and I think it is a common interest in Bosnia and Herzegovina being in NATO as soon as possible because of inclusion in terms of collective security, but also because this would be an indication that it is progressing on the road to the EU. So when it comes to ensuring defence to full NATO membership, then one aspect is the one I described about Article 5. The second aspect before the EUFOR exit, and the EU's general concept for the presence of EUFOR armed forces, the EU provides for two conditions for the exit of its armed forces from Bosnia and Herzegovina, the first full membership of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Partnership for Peace and Progress Programme on the road to NATO as one condition and the second condition for signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the progress of Bosnia and Herzegovina towards the EU. So, at the moment when the conditions for EUFOR to exit Bosnia and Herzegovina are obtained, I assume that both Bosnia and Herzegovina will make an additional shift in the construction of the state and society on the one hand and on the other hand that the overall security situation in the region will be significantly improved in view of the ambitions of NATO, Croatia, Albania and Macedonia's candidate countries as well as the expected positive processes in Serbia-Montenegro. I do not believe that Article 70, as provided for by this law, brings the entity to an unequal position in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The aim of the 70th is to make a review of the perspective property needed by Bosnia and Herzegovina's armed forces by the end of this year. The property review is related to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency's decision as responsible for...the majority of the structure and composition of the armed forces and therefore is not the interest of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Ministry of Defence to retain in its use of the property that is not really necessary and is not necessary for the functioning of future armed forces. Why? Because it involves additional maintenance costs, storage costs. We don't have any more recruits anyway. So the real interest is for the Ministry to well assess the assets and properties that will remain to be used, and I think it's quite logical that what is not perspective and for the purposes of the Ministry of Defence so to leave it at the disposal of entity structures. And when it comes to weapons, weapons will certainly be in excess through this process of narrow-cutting personnel and professionals, and some amounts, and I think the logical answer for what is excess over some time period will be removed from the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina by applying some of the methods. Which does not mean, in extreme terms, a negative process, but on the other hand precisely a positive process because the fact that there is a concentration in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially small and light weapons, does not correspond to the legitimate defence 44 needs of Bosnia and Herzegovina as international instruments dealing with these issues again. Standards, for example. in NATO member states, they are different, but most often they talk about when small arms are said to be, that the coefficient of 1.4 to 1.8 is applied. So the total number of personnel times the coefficient of 1.4 and 1.8 comes to the number of bales of either the pipe or the ammunition. The fact that the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is above that, and I believe that this will also lead to a more appropriate place of armed forces in society and will also contribute to the stability of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4830	Thank you, Minister Radovanović. I say, thank you and Mr. Čengić for these questions, because he gave us the opportunity to hear through the answers from Minister Radovanović a little bit more from the field of this military problem and in general from the field of his ministry and I think it was useful for all of us, and here we are, and it is our task to move on. I don't know if there are any more debaters. We're talking about principles. Is that it? Thank you. Mr. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4831	Mr. Chairman, I am taking the opportunity first of all to thank Minister Radovanović for the answers that have mostly covered most of my questions and have been quite clear and open enough to understand exactly what awaits us in the future. I suppose Minister Radovanović and I will agree that in order to fight corruption, organised crime, drug trafficking, human trafficking does not need to have an army. And I think we agree on that. However, is it so-called. Are they so-called Modern challenges and forms of modern threats are the only forms of threats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am not sure we can agree on that. Since we have one special experience and since there are arguments on the other side. When it comes to the principles of the laws on which it exists, I agree with the following principles of the law, which are, above all, to raise the defence to the state level, to abolish entity jurisdiction in the field of defence, to establish a single ministry or one single ministry in the state, one command and one army and, of course, to approach the organisation and financing of the military in a rational way, i.e. that the funds are actually spent only rationally. I must admit that some kind of sadification to me is a personal fact that today we are talking about the Defense Act that provides for these principles for one reason. '96. I was involved in the process of preparing and adopting the Federation's Defence Act. During the debate on the law, we had very extensive and long consultations and great irreplaceable assistance from the US government's representatives. In these talks, I then suggested that instead of the Federation's Law on Defence be passed the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina and thus set up a single defence ministry and a single army. After a little longer discussion, I was told it was early. I'm surprised by that, but I allow myself to be then, and today I'm probably politically inexperienced and I don't understand any other aspects of these movements. What I think is particularly important is that there is a clear line of command and chain of command, parliamentary control of armed forces and activities, so single funding, and these are certainly all elements that are extremely important and that as such I absolutely support and believe that this is the only possible approach in one democratic country and in a country with very tragic experiences when it comes to the existence and functioning of the armed forces. What I disagree with and do not support are certain principles, or rather some solutions in the law such as the abolition of a passive reserve, such as the transfer of the right to dispose of property from entities, primarily the Federation of the Ministry of Defence, or the state, the abolition of training for military service, the abolition of military records. I think these are very serious issues and I think these are issues that are absolutely, therefore, absolutely affecting essential issues of behaviour, namely the security of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this sense, this law establishes the structure of the defence, so this new law that we are discussing today, is establishing a system of rejections that cannot defend Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since we do not have international agreements that directly provide for Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence of co-operation in the field of defence, to ensure that our defences are protected, this law is, in that sense, in my assessment against constitutionals. The law, second, serves to demilitate Bosnia and Herzegovina. Very clearly, the demilitation of Bosnia and Herzegovina at a time when neither Serbia and Montenegro, nor the Republic of Croatia, is already the law, this law abolishes the post of deterrence, because the Bosnia and Herzegovina Army does not have a convincing force that could deter any possible aggressor or challenge so-called. Here's how the minister says the traditional form of threat today. Next, this law is contrary to the spirit of an international agreement in sub-regional arms control signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia and then the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, today Serbia-Montenegro signed in '97. the year and which as such applies today and has not been questioned, nor has it been abolished as such. And this law is irrational, because it establishes budget spending, so there is a cost through the Ministry of Defence for the purposes of the military and defence, and this army and that defence unfortunately do not have the actual ability to carry out their post of defence. The defence function is usually one of the most important functions of each state, including Bosnia and Herzegovina. Each country's defence system is directly linked to the country's economic and political system and depends on the country's geo-political and geo-strategic conditions and positions and constitutional arrangements. Therefore, the choice of a model of armed organisations of the armed forces, primarily the military as the primary pillar of defence of the sovereignty of independent territorial integration, is a very important political issue for each state. The solution to this issue, i.e. by selecting an army model of states, adopts a strategy to defend against an external aggressor possible and defines the internal function of the armed forces in possible natural disasters, etc. 46 The issue of military organisation of the state has always been at the heart of the attention and activity of state institutions. There is always a goal. How to ensure a favourable outcome in conflict, i.e. to ensure the country's defence capabilities. This basic condition of achieving this goal was the creation of a greater contingent of trained people ready to mobilize in the event of a threat to the security of the country. In recent decades, especially after World War II, a well-organised and highly competent army has become both a deterrent factor and a warning for a potential opponent. Regardless of all factors, the modern scientific technical process in purchasing and equipping requires the existence of a critical number of specialists and specialists in units without which the modern army could not operate in the event of a war, nor in the case of other needs. Hence, with further scientific technical progress in the domain of arms and military equipment, it does not reduce, but increases the need for each army to be more and more in the peacetime composition of each army alongside the commanding staff and specialists in the service of modern technical systems, which defines the predominant profile and size of the professional, senior and military composition of modern armies. For example, for construction. The Federation's military strategy was developed by the Federation Army, which was then signed by members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency, which was '97. A year. This document that was the basis for the establishment of the Federation Army. I'm not sure we have another document now. The sub-regional arms control agreement is limited to five items of technical weapons over a 75 mm caliber for SRJ, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. That agreement is still in effect today. Since this agreement has never really been implemented in practice and that Serbia-Montenegro has never reduced its potential to the envisaged measures of this agreement, we today have the situation that this agreement exists and that it obliges Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it has never made a commitment. As far as Croatia is concerned, it has achieved these frameworks in some elements very soon after the agreement. In some others, it has even reduced below, in some others it has not yet reached its minimum. It's a imbalance of forces that are on Bosnia and Herzegovina's side made and it's still going on. Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence policy document is a key part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's yet-to-be strategic security policy, whose adoption has never been realised in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament. It is a document of BiH's defence policy, all state and ethnic institutions responsible for defence are obliged to carry out their tasks and bring to a certain level their armed potential and people. That number, a number of states are not even any other defence doctrines not put out of force, nor are those who make decisions on a permanent reduction in the military and abolishing the country's defence power are taking care of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and other laws and regulations governing this matter. By reducing military potentials from year to year, the army is reduced to a symbolic number. The announcement of a further reduction in the military that follows now, following the legislation, the removal of the recruiting contingent reserve in the follow-up of the national reform actually means total demilitarisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as about 10 000 professionals and 5,000 active reservers could only fulfill certain missions outside the country. The basic mission to protect the state integrity and sovereignty of the future armed 47 forces of BiH with the number reduced to the figures we mentioned would certainly not be able to guarantee or secure. The announced defence reform positively envisions the abolition of entity institutions. Everything else, and especially the abolition of the regional, recruiting contingent and military service, and the reduction of reserve composition to the symbolic 5,000 people essentially means demilitarisation of Bosnia, because such a normised army could not deal with serious military issues in peace, let alone war. Given the planned abolition of the military deadline, in a very short time in Bosnia and Herzegovina there will be no militaryly trained soldiers, and especially elders, which essentially leads to the complete incapacitation of our citizens to defend their country and themselves. Such an example does not exist currently in the world. Even neutral countries like Switzerland have a respectable military force. Which is sent to the local public and victims of aggression and genocide to these next events, under (a) not by accepting police reform (b) nor by arresting war criminals Karadžić and Mladić C) with unstarted negotiations with the European Commission at a time when Serbia and Croatia begin these talks d) with the lack of any international guarantees of military nature to preserve the security and military integrity of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina to full BiH membership in NATO. And last -- which messages are sent by abolishing military training, passive composition reserves and defence potentials of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina that are passed by this law. All this brings me to the next conclusion – it is absolutely necessary to support defence reforms, but it is necessary to correct this law through a number of amendments in such a way that Bosnia and Herzegovina's armed forces can carry out their defence tasks in accordance with the law on the integration and sovereignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina to full NATO membership. After full membership in NATO, it is perfectly natural for Bosnia and Herzegovina, as a member of the collective defence body, to take the appropriate tasks and carry them out. The question, however, is what has happened since then. For this reason, I propose that my amendments be supported, and secondly I propose that the House be directed, the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, invite the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina to request the real guarantees of the NATO Alliance and the United States for Bosnia and Herzegovina's military security to the full membership of Bosnia and Herzegovina in NATO. So I have no fears, no chills, nor do I think there are challenges from the time when Bosnia and Herzegovina becomes a full member of the NATO alliance. However, the question that this date, what year and the fact is that in the period ahead of us from now on Bosnia and Herzegovina would have such defence structures that do not exist in Europe and such defence structures that could not carry out any tasks. I would be very pleased if the assessment of 48 Ministers would be correct if there were no real threats and real challenges in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'd be very sorry if any of us had to look into it on their own skin and make sure it was the opposite. For all these reasons, I believe that the acceptance of the amendments that I have proposed is a minimum revision of this law that would allow Bosnia and Herzegovina's armed forces and its citizens and states to carry out their function of defence of integrity and sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4832	Thank you very much, Mr. Čengić. This is Mr. Boško Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4833	Mr. Chairman, business intervention. I resent you not taking this session in the right direction. We're on the subject of a bill of principle. Here are the difficult political compromises reached over this law and I will not accept that we sit here and hold political speeches or the views of some political parties or individuals from political parties. In that direction, I'm looking for a break of 15 minutes to consult at the club and I don't know if we're going to continue this session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4834	Thank you very much. I'm taking a break. How many words does Boško say? 15 minutes. I invite Mr. Boško Šiljegović if he has something to say about this break and what it is. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4835	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the club, I asked for a 15-minute break for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We will participate in further work by respecting the Rules of Procedure, and I propose that we declare the principles of the law, then there is a proposal for the law to be considered in the second reading. I want to be clear about that, too. And if we get the consent of this house to declare the renewed amendments of Mr. Čengić and the amendment of the Club of Serbian Delegates signed by Mr. Vinko Radovanović and myself. Otherwise, if you do not respect this business procedure, I say we will leave the House of People's session and for the last time in this high house in this House we will attend some political speeches and some words that are unnecessary in the work of our home. Perhaps on other occasions and elsewhere, and in our home we will not be able to listen to such words.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4836	Thank you very much. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4837	And I ask everyone to go this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4838	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4839	I only apologize for two sentences. I'd like not to be misunderstood when I'm the first time. I basically support absolutely all principles. I support and I say and I support and there is a constitutional legal basis. There's no dilemma here. And I'll vote for first reading anyway. For a second reading, we'll see. But I would just again, I still want to say that I remain in a dilemma with Article 5(5), I will read it point a) each member of the Presidency has a civilian command over the armed forces. No entity will threaten or use force against another entity and under no circumstances will an entity's armed forces enter the territory of another entity. That's what's left for me. And I think it would be more logical if the second reading, that's my personal attitude, the second reading, would be delayed to at least prepare a reformation. I don't think there would be any dispute in Article 5. The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4840	Thank you very much, Mr. Đoko. I have to tell my friend Bosšk next, I don't think I've broken my business procedure, and my interest is that this law be passed and I will remain without explanation and no further answers. But I think it's good, and this Bosca note is moving on now. I think we've exhausted this discussion. I think that, that we've made it maybe a little more difficult for the situation than it normally is being made in this House, but I think that discussion could always be discussed in this House. All right. Whether discussions are to the extent or not is a matter of all individuals to evaluate, but here I am now in position after all these statements we have heard, the reasons of the minister, I am now in a position to put this law to the plea in the rereading. So who is it that the proposal for a law on the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina is adopted in the first reading. Who's in? Please vote now. - So 12, so the law was passed in the first reading, 12 for, 1 against. I suggest that this law be conducted in accordance with the law and in other readings. For this part of the debate, we had amendments, and so said the President of the Commission Mr. Šiljegović, one amendment submitted together by him and Vinko and one amendment by Mr. Atne Spajić, namely Zrna, pardon and Mr. Hasan Čengić. There you go. Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So for the second law, this is what the Croatian Club submitted, i.e., I agree. Here you go, Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4841	These two amendments signed by Boško and Vinko and others who signed for this other law, Ante and I have actually taken over the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4842	I apologize to you. This is where he recorded that secretary wrong, and then I apologize. Thank you very much. We got it now, okay?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4843	Take the amendments from that home so we don't comply with the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4844	It's for the second law. So now we have Mr. Hasan Čengić's amendment. Mr. Hasan Čengić's amendments were made in writing. Is there a need, Mr. Čengić, to talk about your amendments?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4845	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry, it's probably this eight-month break, so you're out of routine, 16 months of pardon. Business intervention
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4846	Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4847	We declare whether the law will be considered in a second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4848	Okay. Thank you very much. Please. I'm putting it to a vote. Are we going to pass the law in a second reading? Who's asking to vote now? I'm sorry, Boško. I'm sorry. So 11 for, 2 abstentions. So we're going to review the law in the second reading. Please. What amendment? Okay. Here, first of all, is this law whether these amendments came from Mr., Mr. Boško Šiljegović's amendment, is that Mr. Vink Radovanović's too. 51 Is there a need, sir?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4849	Just for a very short time, referring to Rule 89.3 (a) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, what Mr. Zrna said was the Vice-President of this Commission, we have taken over the amendment of the House of Representatives with a desire to come to the same text of the law and today we end the law in another reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4850	Thank you very much. You've heard the argument, and I'd like to vote on this amendment immediately. Who is Mr. Boško Šiljegović's amendment? Please vote now. - So the amendment with 9 for, 1 abstention, 1 against. Please, we have Mr. Cengic's amendments now and if there's a need for Mr. Čengić to talk about yours, expose you, or what's in writing is enough.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4851	So, if you can just for a little while. This is about five amendments. The first two are related to the proposal to provide training for possible serving in a passive reserve. The third amendment provides for a change in the provisions on property management, which were currently former JNA properties, which have been available so far, i.e. in the use of entity ministries. The basic idea is to ensure that these properties that have not yet been sold are not privatised to carry out part of the obligations of entities created during the war, and are not yet executed. The last two amendments also harmonize the issue of this service, passive service training and the possibility of providing the documentation needed to do so. That's about the essence of these five amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4852	Thank you very much. All the andmans Mr. Čengić delivered, here's the table. You had a chance to read them, and I'd like to go now and vote on the amendments one by one. I'm putting Mr. Čengić's first amendment to the vote. Who's up for a vote? Please vote. Like this. The bilans is three against nine, abstention one. So the amendment didn't go through. 52 I would like to make a statement to Amendment number II. Please vote now. We have a score like this for, eight against, two abstentions. So the amendment didn't go through. We have amendment number III. I would like to put it on amendment number III. Please vote now. Same against, for 3, versus 8, abstention 2. The amandman didn't go through. We put amendment number IV to the vote. Here's your vote now. I beg you, please I don't, uh, I voted, but my sign wasn't. I want to repeat the vote. Please excuse me, there's been a mistake. I'm asking you to repeat the vote. Let's vote now. Amendment IV is. So for 3, versus 9 abstention 1. The amendment didn't go through. And we have amendment number V. Please vote for amendment number V. Vote now. So for 3, versus 9 abstention 1. And the amendment didn't go through either. Now, if there's no more discussion, we're voting on the law now. Please. I'm sorry, Zno. Mr. Zno, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4853	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome this all today that has happened absolutely. This law that is in our joint service, and which, I trust, will take us where we are headed, means Euro-Atlantic integration. What I'm about to say isn't strictly about the law, it's just one clue to clarify it, because many people don't understand it, and this is, it's not an ex-post mind, but it's not bad to just ask. As Amendment VI to the adopted Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Article 61, paragraph 1 sets out the relevant entity agency to determine the status of civil servants in the entity defence ministries prior to their transition to the Ministry of Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We know the Law has fully regulated this problem, in fact, the Ministry of Bosnia and Herzegovina simply takes over officials from entity ministries. Only one problem arises here, 53 problems of functioning not of the law, but of the state service entity agency that I believe has already done in Republika Srpska. Unfortunately, in the Federation, she was only recently formed. And now I'm just asking if it's going to be a problem with 1.1, is that the date of simple acceptance of officials from entity ministries, or is that the date of the start of the transition. I know in another sense that it is the date of the start of the transition and whether this transition is also true for those officers who have not yet been processed by the agency. In order not to deny it is simply a matter, because it can happen, in fact because of the inability of the agency to do its job to deny this law in this segment legal status, the legal status of the people here, I am solely referring to the federal ministry. And it can probably, this isn't a problem to overcome, only an answer can give, I think it'll be a minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4854	Here's Mr. Jukić's suggestion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4855	I think we can work this out, I think this is very important, but I'd like to try to settle this by law. So it's about law, but it's about law, law enforcement. So to ask the Ministry of Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina to order or arrange, or warn the entity authorities to do their part of the job on this issue so that what is written in the law of 1.1 next year can be carried out, as it is doubtful, if the checks to be carried out by the Entity State Service Agency are not carried out, whether this can be carried out as Mr Zrna has said.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4856	Thank you. Here we have heard these discussions, but first I would like to vote on the law, and then this would make one conclusion that will follow this law in this direction that should respect this Ministry of Defense. Let's first vote now on the Bosnia and Herzegovina Defence Act. Please vote now. So the law was passed by 11 votes to, 1 against, 1 abstention in the exact text that was adopted by the House of Representatives. Thank you, colleagues. So now we're going to vote on this conclusion that should follow this law towards the Ministry of Defence, what Mr. Jukić said. I don't think we should repeat it and put it to the vote. Who's in? Vote now, please. Thank you very much. So here's the total conclusion is 10 for, there's no one against, 2 abstentions. Thank you. And this conclusion has been adopted. Here you go, Mr. Čengić. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4857	Mr. Chairman, in my discussion, I also suggested one conclusion, and I would ask the House to declare the conclusion, and he would say as soon as possible: - The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina calls on the competent institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina to seek guarantees for the territorial integrity and security of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the NATO alliance and the United States to full membership of Bosnia and Herzegovina in NATO.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4858	Thank you very much. We heard Mr. Čengić's proposal. I am obliged to put this proposal to a statement and ask that we put a vote on Mr. Čengić's proposal. Who's in favour of, namely voting for the proposal? Thank you. Total for, against nothing, abstention 4. And there's no proposal for no entity majority. I think this is what the College needs to agree on.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4859	Let me tell you, this is the final decision and it has to be the entity majority. There's more in total, but there's no one entity, there's no third of one. That's what the College should agree to.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4860	No college, not incomplete, unable to agree. We'll leave that for the next session. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Noose.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4861	I'm really surprised that we don't have a majority for this, to vote on this proposal, which Mr. Čengić finally suggested a conclusion. I cannot believe that a citizen in Bosnia and Herzegovina is not interested in seeking the protection of his country. I really consider myself to be the most normal one, and I may have received some of Mr. Čengić's views today with a reserve, but now I see they're not without reason. I do, and I would like the appeal of individuals to go, if not home to all the factors in the world that decide on peace in the Balkans that there are thousands of conditions here in Bosnia and Herzegovina that do not depend on the people who have suffered genocide. I really ask those people who participated in the establishment of this law to allow Bosnia and Herzegovina to breathe normally. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4862	Thank you, Mr. brkati. Thank you. We have an appeal situation. Individual appeals are individual appeals. Everyone has the right to appeal if they think he can figure it out. Please. Please! So agreeing with the College continues to vote. We don't, it's ours, it's our only option. Please, nice. What are we now? Now this 12th point of the agenda is it? The 12th item of the agenda is Ad.12. A bill on the Service in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the first reading, you received the Law as well as a report from the competent commission. This is the first reading. The Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina has adopted 12 amendments that have become an integral part of the text. The House of Representatives adopted an amendment that also became an integral part of the text of the Law. Here, that's what I can tell you about this law now and I'm putting the law under discussion in the first reading. Here you go. Are there any debaters? Boško has needs, competent commission. Osman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4863	I can't normally follow this session anymore. I really can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4864	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4865	I'm sorry, I'm going because I'm so shaken by the attitude that someone can ask not to seek protection from the international community and the United States to protect us, it's not clear to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4866	Osman, that's where we end up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4867	I'm asking now, we don't have a club president, I'm looking for a break by 9:00 tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4868	Please! 56
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4869	Well, I can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4870	Osman, that's your business, brother. You're free. Let's move on. Principles and principles of this law in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces Service. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4871	Thank you, Mr. President. I will not, of course, repeat what I said about the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I would like to say first and foremost that I have no objections, starting from the fact that there are no ideal laws. I appreciate that this is a quality basis for our further steps in reforms in this direction. I just want, in summary, that it's already agreed to consider this amendment that passed at the House of Representatives, and I want to ask a question and I would like someone to answer me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4872	Can we do that when it's right, when we're talking about that amendment? Come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4873	Well, I'll say it, it's very short, so whoever feels relevant to try to convince me, namely this amendment, we don't mention national minorities. So we list the constituent nations and I am now interested in whether it is a random failure or if national minorities are not involved in the armed, service in Bosnia and Herzegovina's armed forces. How is it with our obligations under the international convention, how is it with the National Minorities Act that we have today from this agenda? I'd like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4874	Thank you very much, sir. I'm just asking, Mr. Minister, this is a question that you might be able to comment on about about national minorities if we didn't have any misunderstandings. I'm guessing it's just a random drop, a national downturn. Aah! Here you go. They have their rights defined by the National Minorities Act.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4875	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Members of the College, gentlemen of the delegates, therefore, in order to take account and respect both of your time and agendas at the 57th session today, I did not take a word in explaining the basic principles and principles relating to this law, but in general, when I am here, therefore in general, they are similar or similar to the principles and principles related to the Law of Defence. What is the specificity of this law and the importance of this law is that, in relation to the 2003 solutions, when we had only the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we now have this other law that sets out in a unique way all the essential elements of the professional military service, starting with the definition of the person at the service in the armed forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina, through the procedures for entering the armed forces, the issues which define and regulate the management through professional service, the question of compensation and receipt, including also markings, acts in the armed forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I believe that this is the other side of the same medal, i.e. the Law on Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, without this law would not have the necessary weight and the necessary dimensions. This is especially if it is known that in Bosnia and Herzegovina for a long time, for example in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, there has been no Law on Service for some 7 or 8 years, that the Service Act in Republika Srpska has been taken over and technically completed in some elements of the law of some past time, and this is a quality shift in terms of performing a professional military service as a whole. I would have liked to have taken the word that I especially pointed out the mechanisms of leading through a military career, because it is a brand-new area that has not been applied so far in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is that, unlike so far, professional military officials enter the professional military service, so soldiers to officers, and that they have kept a certain number of years in that service. Each time signing new and new contracts in a way to provide a professional level and an appropriate age structure. So persons from the armed forces get out early or 35 or 40 years old. And that mechanism is built into this law. I think it's one of the specialities and differences in what we knew so far. When it comes to the issue of Article 6(1) concerning the amendment of the House of Representatives which says that the regiments continue their heritage identity and military heritage of the units and constituent peoples, and then list from which they originate. I must say that on the Commission of the Joint Defence and Security Commission, this was not the subject of some broader debate, but this amendment appeared in the context of the need for discussions concerning the Law of Defence in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where a number of amendments were tabled which envisioned the definition in this law of the name of the regiment, the date of the regiments as well as the characteristics of these regiments. Therefore, these amendments were not accepted at the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but in the procedure of reviewing these amendments, an initiative appeared that the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is under the Law on Defence and has been competent and authorised to prescribe, on a proposal from the Minister of Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, these elements which were the subject of a discussion of any regulation in the Law of Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Article 57, in order to reach some kind of agreement in order to guarantee the applicants of these amendments that, indeed, after the entry into force of these laws, the Presidency and to prescribe in an appropriate manner this label. And in this sense, in the context of the discussions on these markings, there was a requirement that the amendment should also take effect on Article 6's position in the way it is stated here, and indeed 58 texts were adopted at the House of Representatives which did not mention the others, and I am not sure what that means in the context of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it is a fact. I propose here, therefore, that the Ministry did not propose such an amendment, in order to adopt and this law, since I really do not think that, this law, the Law on the Service of Armed Forces and the Law on Defence in Bosnia and Herzegovina, are indeed complementary laws and that one without another is not worth enough, that this is recognised as a potential problem, but that we make a positive statement about these laws and that the laws go further on their own course, and that there are possibilities of mechanisms and that, possibly, if this is a weakness to intervene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4876	Thank you, Mr. Minister. You heard the Minister's exhibit. Is there anyone else? Here you go, Mr. Pajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4877	Thank you, Chairman, I'd only like a few sentences, I'm a legalist, I accept that the Law on Defence has been passed, and normally this other law, the Law on the Service of Armed Forces as a follower of the law, and I wouldn't be making any trouble for it anyway. I had a reserve under one part of that law in accordance with the Constitution, but the law was passed and I would really vote in favour of the Service Act in the Armed Forces. However, after several step-in colleagues, Mr. Čengić and Mr. Osman Brk, I feel hurt and would not be present in that sense during this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4878	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4879	Thank you very much, Mr. President, there's no dilemma about my attitude. The law needs to be passed, it needs to be done today, there's no dilemma. But I would ask you to take one conclusion similar to what we had previously adopted, and here is the Ministry to look at this element and, through changes and additions in a particular procedure, which is scheduled to fulfil our commitment to national minorities. Look, there are people in all three of these armies who didn't have a problem when they were supposed to be in those armies. Now we rule out from this law that I cannot cultivate these traditions. So it's an old commitment to each of the minorities. There are thousands of such people, therefore, this should be taken seriously into account in the context of what I said to the National Minorities Act that we have, the Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, and in the context of this, I realized that, therefore, in one normal procedure, we would then put this into law. I ask you to put such a conclusion on the plea and as far as I'm concerned, I will vote in every way for this law. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4880	Thank you very much. Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4881	I'm very normal this discussion. It is very normal as a consequence of the national approach to this problem and as a consequence of the idea that there was a war in this country between three peoples and three national armies. The issue of national minorities is a pseudo issue in relation to the traditions of the BiH Army. The BiH Army has been multinational from idea to realization all along, respecting both the constituent ethnic and national minorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, do not take these considerations seriously when it comes to the tradition of the BiH Army, no matter who is a member of whom the people, or the national minority, has an open door to continue to build those traditions. And in that sense, I think it is absolutely unnecessary to conduct further discussions. No Niko can convince me and say that someone will close any citizen of this country's door to cultivate the traditions of the BiH Army that fought for territorial integrity, sovereignty and equality of all three peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4882	Thank you very much. We've heard all the discussions. I put the draft law in the service of the BiH Armed Forces to the vote. Please vote, with the amendment, we explained that, in the first reading, in the first reading. Please, since it was unclear to say that Zrna is now clear, we are talking about the proposal for a law on service in Bosnia and Herzegovina's armed forces, and we are adopting it in the first reading, these are principles and principles. Now, please vote now. Pain, stop confusing really. So we passed this law in the first reading with 11 in, 1 against. Thank you very much. I think we should continue to do both this law and the second reading. Who is it to discuss the Law on Armed Forces, the service in Bosnia and Herzegovina's armed forces in the second reading? Please vote now. So 10 is for, there's no one against and 1 is abstention. So it's been passed that we go to the law in the second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. The new amendment to the text of this law was given by Mr. Zno. Please. Pajić and Zno together. He's in principle. I didn't hear. All right, ruža. 60 Pajić and Zrna gave the amendment together. He's basically, as far as I know, taking over the amendment, is that right from home so we can be in a position to adopt the law in the same text and I think that right now we should vote on, to finish at least when it comes to this amendment. If we accept this amendment. Who's in? Please vote now. So the amendment was adopted with a total of 10 for, 2 against and no one has abstention. Please open a further discussion of this law and there is no. Okay. Who's in favor of this law? Please vote now. So the law was passed by voting for 11, v. 1, abstention 1 and so this law was adopted in the same text as the House of Representatives adopted. Dear colleagues and dear friends, I congratulate you all. We've passed an extremely high-quality law. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4883	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I apologize for reporting for the third time, first of all, thanking you for a positive vote on one law and another. I have one proposal or a request for this council to conclude that the professional services of this council and the Ministry of Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina would be re-enacted together, before the publication of these laws, to carry out a lexical and technical check of these laws, because the procedure also included the Commission's situation to determine that there were certain technical irregularities, linguistic etc. And to avoid any kind of complications related to these laws. Therefore, the conclusion in charge of the council's professional services and the BiH Ministry of Defence together to express a lexis technical check of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4884	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Mr. President-in-Office of the Commission, Šijegovic, you answered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4885	Is there anything final after this vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4886	You got it. Please, we heard this proposal from the minister which I think is fine, and I think this proposal should be voted by the minister to professional services. 61 please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4887	Either I don't understand the languages used in this country, or I don't understand the procedures. So I don't know what it is. If it's about the law in the official languages having to meet the real state of affairs of what we voted for, and now we're tasking professional services to do it, then let's not be ourselves. The job of professional services is in every law and with regard to every law, including these laws to be consistent with language. I don't understand what we have to vote on. It's a professional job. Whether to consult the Ministry of Defense, who will be consulted by all professional services, that's their business. I think everything else is an anachronism. Does that mean that other laws don't have to be language-compliant? Of course, it is a constitutional obligation to receive texts in the official languages of the people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that must be done. I don't know what we have to vote on. It's a task that involves professional services. If they need the help of the ministry, I'm glad I heard it, the minister is ready to provide professional assistance to his services to possibly align some misunderstandings, but there are no more misunderstandings. After all, you know better than I do, when the law passes this level, then there is nomotechnical, nomotechnical work on the law that is common and which cannot be different than it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4888	Thank you, Hasan. But I'm thinking of this decision, this decision, and this conclusion, we're not going to diminish anything. We can only fix it and he can't be a distraction at all. So let him, and if anyone should, if he has to, let's have him, and we wouldn't accidentally have some negative consequences that as who he is, but to say that there I suggest we still vote for this conclusion of the minister and please come on, I'm putting it on a statement. Vote now. So we also voted in favour of this proposal, or Mr. Minister with a 10 for, one against, one abstention. Thank you, colleagues. Mr. Šiljegović, here comes the time and you say it now. Come on, come on, you've been refusing all the time.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4889	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, namely I am in charge of the Joint Parlamentary Commission to thank the Co-chair of the Defence Reform Commission Dr. Raklje Gregorijan and his associates. I should also like to thank Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence minister, Mr Radovanović, his associates, US government representatives, NATO and NATO headquarters in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to thank General Stiven Šuk for thanking OHR, OSCE and other international organisations who have helped us in this reform. I especially thank the members of the Joint Commission of both homes who have worked hard on these laws and I am taking the opportunity to congratulate all those who look forward to the adoption of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4890	Thank you, Mr. Boško. Thank you. So, we did a good job and please move on. 13th item of the agenda Ad.13. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Rights of Members of National Minorities in BiH, first reading Proposer Representative's House. I don't know you got the law as well as the report from the competent commission. The proposer of this law is the House of Representatives. This is the first reading and here you go. No Niko's answering for a discussion. I beg you, please. You got that. I can't see. Mr. Filipović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4891	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So a few words just. As competent, the Constitutional Legal Commission discussed this law. There were no amendments, so it's in the same text in front of this house as it was accepted in the House of Representatives. And so I suggest that the House accept this law, that we do both first and second reading. There's no reason not to pass this law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4892	Thank you very much, sir. Please, do we have any more discussions? I'm putting the law to the vote in the first reading. Who's in favour, please let him vote? Now vote. So the law was adopted in the first reading with 11 votes in favour, or unanimously. We suggest we conduct the discussion in another reading. Who's in? Please vote now. It was also voted 11 for, unanimously. So on the proposal of this law, there were no amendments. Is there a discussion? As far as I can tell, it's gone. 63 I'm putting the law up for adoption. Please vote now. So 11 for, unanimously and I realize that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Rights of Members of National Minorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in the same text as was done at the House of Representatives. The 14th point of the agenda, Ad.14. The Annual Security and Intelligence Platform, the House of Representatives, adopted the Annual Security and Intelligence Platform at its 65th session, held on 17 September 2005. You've received a report from the commission. Please. Can I get a word in? Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4893	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, before you the Annual Platform on Security Intelligence Policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina is designed on the basis of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Security Intelligence Agency Act as one of the documents that will set out priorities on the work of the intelligence agency, which should be an activity conducted every year, and you have received a report from the Joint Commission on the surveillance of Bosnia and Herzegovina's intelligence agency and I have no intention to convince neither the content of the platform nor the Commission's report, because you had enough time, given the fact that two or three months ago this was put into parliamentary procedure and a more precise conclusion that we received from the Presidency at your meeting of 22.6. The Bureau approved such a platform, and of course it is foreseen by the law to be declared by the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You have seen in the conclusions that we have requested that the dynamics of the activities around this document be brought into line with the dynamics relating to the adoption of the budget and that, of course, the obligations of the agency itself and the chairman of the Council of Ministers relating to this problem in the light of its annual report, that this activity be sent to one another in a time frame and we have set certain deadlines there. I am asking the House of People of the Parliamentary Assembly to support the Commission's conclusions and to accept this document as proposed by the Commission and to commit the relevant institutions, so only to the Agency, the Council of Ministers and the Presidency that in the future this activity goes practically early in the year. There we have given some precise deadlines in our report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4894	Thank you very much. Is there any further discussion? There isn't. I am putting the vote on the Annual Platform, to adopt the Annual Security Platform in the Intelligence Service and to be a little more precise, more concrete for the conclusions, with the Commission's report. 64 Who's up for it? Please vote now. Thank you very much. So unanimity 10 for and no one abstentioned or against. So we've adopted the Annual Security Intelligence Policy Platform. The 15th agenda, Ad.15. Information on the state of BiH's external responsibility in 2004 must be noted that we had this on the agenda several times and returned twice. And here we are, thanks to the lucky minister, she came to explain this to us because he changed his presidency. It's because of that. What are you gonna do? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4895	No, it's not, brother. The information was on that committee. I know, and now suddenly I'm gone, you don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4896	I know you've been waiting for me to become president.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4897	The information from 31.12.2004 and she, you saw how she was systematiced with the terms at the beginning, and then we have these tables, the state of external duty, the duty to creditors. So it's very methodologically systematic how it's usually done in the reports. We suggest that you adopt this information and we have three conclusions that would be very important, and if you have any specific questions whenever you want, you can ask, and in the end we have a suspicious inflow of credit per lender, currently valid with all projects that are currently approved. On the left you'll see there's a Swedish government and everything. So bilateral agreements and the last table are talking about it. In conclusion, we say this – the indicators of Bosnia and Herzegovina's external responsibility over the period show that the observed external debt indicators continue to remain at sustainable levels. External duty. The external debt ratio relative to the gross social product is around 33% compared to this shown and classified the country as moderately in charge countries and the ratio of service of external debt to exports by around 7% at the end of last year continues to indicate that the stable balance in the debt payment capacity is still stable. We really do when we plan an external debt for a year when we chase and the budget we have means announcements from these end-users. Annual execution dynamics are planned for months. She's not the same, she's a monthly small amount of those tranches being plenty and large. So in annual capacity for this year over 300 million is external debt and it is executed regularly. And that means that compared to these criteria, it's still a state of secondary duty. 65 Conclusion No. 2. The upper level of debt according to the criteria defined by the contract reached in the max. where the ceiling of the total debt relative to gross state products is 60% of the country's social gross product will be determined once the internal debt resolution procedure is completed. Total debt means internal debt and external debt. We are now talking all the time about external debt, external debt, paying off external debt, and we are talking about internal debt in a way that we have not yet summed up data on internal debt or private or public. As regards public joint debt relating to old foreign savings, war damages to unpaid salaries, etc. That's what we're trying to do now, and as far as private debt is concerned, we're trying to figure out through the Central Bank, we've worked out the methodology, how to add these data to the business banks, and that we have that part of the debt that's normally not prescribed by any methodology, nor by law, as an obligation for us to report, if the private company takes an extraordinary loan, we have no obligation to report. But we're trying to do it. The third conclusion is – the external borrowing strategy should be consistently based on the work of the jidipi and the country's development needs, taking into account the implications of the debt on macro-economic and payment balance movements, and in this respect the following needs to be ensured. Most external borrowing should be subject only to conditions, especially in the first part of the medium term. That means for Bosnia and Herzegovina what we're already doing is that we're still doing the loans that we're presenting to you now, you see through the ratification of the World Bank eberde and the rest, these are still the terms of the IDA loan. Concentration loans with interest below 85, 30 years of repayment, 10 years of grace periods and for infrared structure and for hospitals, for schools. So in that part where we're in debt, these are very favourable terms compared to possible borrowing, because commercial borrowing because it means. So this is really also the IDA 13 conditions, and by the year we would have to move on to a little more strict iberdi conditions, but here we'll see Pod b) it says that the limited level of commercial borrowing is engaged exclusively in sectors that can repay themselves. This would be the best part if it went into the electricity sector, telecoms, etc. where it just comes back and where it's paying off that way. However, we, like the country and the country's development policy as governments, are trying to secure infrastructures, good health services, many schools, return etc. and borrowing in this sense cannot be paid in a way that is commercially profitable. But it means cost-effective services that are an improvement in the better lives of citizens, etc. So these two are separated. Under c) writes the borrowing focus on the priorities of the country's development and economic growth. So this would be important to overcome any new priorities now, and how to get to these even more favourable conditions, or finance the branches that will bring us tomorrow's growth. To reduce credit for the purpose of budget support, and to increase debt to support faster development for private sectors. This is happening at the moment and we no longer have almost budget support except for this (sexics and smiles)... and thus it is over and that debt is avoided based on the provision of technical assistance that needs to be provided for emergency assistance. 66 You know that we always discuss when these loans are at stake as to how much technical assistance there is in being paid through consultants, and we have no direct benefit for our health projects and for others. When the negotiations are negotiated, it is taken into account how much that share can be reduced really for technical assistance for learning, for, and that it is more specifically for water supply facilities, for infrastructure. That's the way it is. So this would be four, three conclusions that would follow this information. We think that the information is methodologically good, it can always be upgraded and we hope that after the adoption of the Law on the verification of old foreign exchange savings and this Constitutional Court ruling regarding war damage, we will nevertheless more precisely show these indicators of internal and external debt, i.e. for the debt total in the country, what it means, and that we will also be able to demonstrate by means of a new methodology plus a grey economy, so that these ratios will be more precise. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4898	Thank you. There's the minister who was very generous and you've heard the discussion. You have a commission report and I think you have all the elements to decide on this information. Is there anything else to say? I'm putting this on, so this is, this isn't what I'm voting for. Is it the Jadranko? Here you go, Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4899	Here's to not being, I won't be this easy question. So, the responsibility of Bosnia and Herzegovina's external responsibility, I wonder if there is one question, and what is the amount of funds promised or approved in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and they are not withdrawn as a task, under which conditions and why are they not, what should we do to make it stand down? Of course, it will be in line with these prearranged conclusions. So at the end of the conclusions. For that to be favourable, under favourable conditions and all that. Here I promised the minister I wouldn't ask the question of internal debt and I really won't, but I just want to suggest that they hurry up and really try to determine that internal debt. And one more thing. Another suggestion, therefore, is that really and the jidipi per capita head is calculated, respecting, taking into account these latest methodologies, because it seems to me that this information that's written here is being written about us by others and I don't think it's real. However, I believe that the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is, and it is not only my grade, but also people who are a little more concerned with this job and then the overall picture through this prism is being taken over by the jidipies on the head of the people still better in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And yet I'm saying this for the reason that we have an objective real picture of ourselves, but also to introduce ourselves to the world and to those who are interesting in any sense in one way, let's have a better light, but the real light, that's the most important thing. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4900	Thank you very much, Mr. Jukić. Well, that wasn't an exhausting minister. No, no. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4901	He's got it all right. Our... Statistics agencies are well on their way to acquire full capacity very quickly so that they can work of course ours in the sense that we have state and two entity and this department in Brcko. All statistics mean under the same methodology that they work together and we get both this really and question the population and question of GPS and ratios etc. This first question, Mr. Jukić, regarding the announced loans we did not withdraw. What I can tell you now is what the state was involved in, and why I now know and what is not realized, three four World Bank loans have not been realised. We've got the other tranches from Buckenheim left the sauce 2 and we're left with an ensac, and that's about $120 million. It currently means that if you could withdraw, now.../Buck/ wait for the signing of the inspection law, it's not signed. Sosak 2 is waiting to settle disability issues in the Federation, and the emsak is waiting for our law on higher education, the Law on wages and the Internal Audit Act and another two, two, three things 50 million is difficult, and only 4 million of them would get, indeed only out of 50 million is a package, the state as budgetary support, and the rest goes to entities. So there are really announced and we signed that two years ago, the last of this emsac. Meanwhile, there's a new project called pidipi DPCs, it's related to this surgically... and it's already in place, it's starting to fall back. So these are the grandmother's third tranche, the sauce 2 is the second tranche, and the emsac is not a single tranche. The IMF promises us if we sign a stand-by of about 51m dollars, also for budget support, and as far as the announced negotiations are concerned, we now have in the 12th and 13th eberde negotiations regarding 171m in relation to the infrastructure of the railways for these routes of the Sarajevo-Ploče, if they would also go with some of their renovations and their infrastructure related to the takeover of airspace above Bosnia and Herzegovina. So most of it would eberde World Bank and we also have announcements from ebbs that they would help and build roads still and that we are interested in using banks to place funds for small and medium-sized enterprises. There are very many lines which, meanwhile, are open through commercial banks by bricks the fund has now released one line through UPI's agricultural bank. Well, he doesn't know we have part of the stakes of funds, they're banks for small and medium-sized enterprises, etc. So that's not the part that we directly conclude, but it might be as interesting as some information to support here's the state that... has good connections so they invest. ejd, we've got good cooperation with them, and they're investing in part of it. This part should also be more engaged in making banks lower interest rates, better terms available to the economy, and this part of this infrastructure means contracts and it is still going very well. Our wish is to think otherwise they have some very good plans for reconstruction, reconstruction and they would continue to purchase and trains and I don't know by signalling etc. They've done a lot of this after this law and this corporation that was founded has moved on. We have a problem with the ports. Brcko insists on helping them invest as much as they can in that port of theirs up there to rebuild I don't know the customs terminal and everything. There's a good plan. Most of the time, there are plenty, lots of projects still related to water supply and where we have signed agreements, the one kfv that will later come on, or 68 today is not just the German government we have a lot of. Every time we ratify the German Renewal Fund where we get water supplies where we have plenty on the territory of the entire Bosnia and Herzegovina projects. Now Eberde has decided that he should think of helping build also water supply networks and what it's already called with some means. So there's a lot of announced stuff. Most of the work has been done around water lately, protecting the environment. The Japanese government is working hard to help with grenades. That's what some of the general conditions are like. But I can do it, so what I know now and what I can tell you now, but we can do it on a written list and information that says Mr. Jukić what we should have pulled, which we didn't withdraw, because if these funds are not used by the World Bank, they won't be able to withdraw anymore. They can't be restructured, they can't be rerouted, except we don't have some big flood, a drought, and I don't know God forbid what happens to us. That's it. Here's Čengić showing me that I've gone too far, and we can make one brief piece of information here.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4902	Thank you very much. Iftar's come on. We've heard all about this, and I'm now putting to a vote a proposal for this information. I'm asking you to vote now. So the information on the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina's external responsibility by this home was accepted unanimously by 12 votes in favour. The 16th item of the agenda is Ad.16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Convention on tripartite consultations in order to promote the implementation of international labour standards in 1976 You received a report from the committee responsible. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this Convention. I'm opening a debate. hasane, you're here.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4903	I would say very briefly that we now have 11 conventions, contracts and international agreements on the agenda. All the foreign and trade policy commissions in this house considered them at their 38th and 39th sessions. All received support from the Commission. To cut short in one sentence, each of the importance and interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I propose we hold no debate, but to vote as briefly as possible. I'd ask the head of the House to just read the title without these formalities because they're all past the same formalities. All received support from the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, the House of Representatives, and now this home. So all formalities are exactly the same. Thank you. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4904	The easiest thing will be for me to read all these headlines and vote at once for everyone. That's right. Well, you said the shortest, this is the shortest. I mean, come on well, then it's not the shortest. Then it's medium short, isn't it? This is how to give consent to ratification of the Convention on tripartite consultations in order to promote the implementation of international labour standards 1976. Who's in favor of giving consent? Please vote now. They've given unanimous 12 for it. The 17th point of the agenda, Ad.17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the European Community and BiH on the general principles of BiH's participation in community programmes We heard Here's Haso says this is all fantastic and useful. I'm putting it to the vote. Who is in favour of giving consent to ratifying the Framework Agreement between the European Community and BiH. Please vote now. Same condition. So we adopted this, too, 12 for and unanimity no one against, no one abstention. The eighteenth point of the agenda, Ad.18. Giving sagals to ratify the Treaty of Comprehensive Nuclear Trials and putting this to the vote. Vote now. No, I don't. I don't understand. Let's explain ourselves. Come on. Here's 11. Someone's gone. Look at the whites. - 11 is for, and that's unanimous. Ad.19. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Slovenia on the mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters Who is to give consent to the ratification of the BiH-Slovenia Treaty? Please vote now. Is this how they hurt? They hurt, you say the word, I'll be right back. You're my friend. You know you can do anything. You're gonna run into me, boljeti. It's easy for you to come with me. I'm not someone who's angry. So the score is for 12, against no one and a tough nobody. That's right. 70 The 20th item of the agenda is Ad.20. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Slovenia on extradition We heard Hasan. Who's to give consent to ratification? Please vote now. - 11 for, no one abstention, no one against, so unanimously. Please. Point 21. Ad.21. Giving consent to ratification of the BiH-Montenegro Treaty, on mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters, please, who is to give consent to this ratification? Vote now. So 12 for, unanimously. Ad.22. Giving consent to ratification of the BiH-Montenegro Treaty on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters Please vote now. Resist Green Eight and don't worry. - 12 for, so unanimously. Thank you very much. Ad.23. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between BiH and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the avoidance of double taxation and prevention of tax avoidance in relation to income tax Please vote now. So 11 for, unanimously, no one abstentions and no one against. Ad.24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on the amendment of the Agreement between the Government of BiH, the Government of the Federation of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters Please vote now. Here's until the vote is over and we'll add that comment. Well, we'll add a comment. - 12 for, no one against anyone abstention. So unanimous. Here you go, Haso.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4905	I apologize, no conclusion will be required because this agreement was tied up during the time of the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina in '96. 71 years old. And that's when the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina took over. It was only after that that the Council of Ministers was formed. And for that reason, this agreement has this title. So Bosnia and Herzegovina's government, which represents the state, plus the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina government, representing the Federation. It's only later, after the '96 election. The established Council of Ministers continued to do so. So, in relation to this agreement, it doesn't need that, and this Germany is going to need it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4906	Thank you very much, Haso. You're always constructive. Ad.25. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on Legal Co-operation in Civil and Business Matters between BiH and the Republic of Turkey Please vote now. - 11 for, so unanimously. Ad.26. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Cooperation in the Field of Tourism between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey Please, who is in favour of this ratification? Now. - 11.00, that means unanimous 11 for. Now there's that Council of Ministers right there. Ad.27. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of BiH and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on co-operation in the fields of culture, education and science I am putting this request for agreement on ratification of the agreement to vote. Please vote who's in favour? Now. 12.00, that means we have a unanimous decision. Here we have this conclusion, Haso. You dictate, and we put him to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4907	If you'll allow us to try to formulate that conclusion. So the competent institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina are asked to initiate the harmonisation of international agreements on issues of the name of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions mentioned in these agreements, such as the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and should be the Council of Ministers, such as the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Human Rights, should be the Ministry of Justice and the like. And to make sure in future that the concepts that determine the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina that the concepts held by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are in line with the existing names. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-05-0.u4908	Thank you very much. I don't think anything should be added or taken away here. I'm asking you to vote. Vote now. - 11 for, 1 against, thank you. The 47th session of our home is over. Thank you for your cooperation. I'm sorry, what he says Bol over a little break, some of them. The session was completed at 5:20 p.m.
