ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15932	Dear Members, invited guests, I am opening the 50th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, once again I welcome you, welcome all present guests, welcome representatives of international organisations, representatives of the Council of Ministers, I welcome the representatives of the media. I'd like to ask professional services one more time to invite the clubs into the session. The session was scheduled to start at 10:00, we waited 10 minutes, we left. According to a report by the Professional Service or the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, we currently have a quorum in the hall, a sufficient number of MPs to work. At any moment, the MPs are here, arriving in the O.R. From today's session, I am obliged to inform you, announced the absence of Mr Jozo Križanović, and Dr Abdulah Nakaš informed the Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat that he would be late due to urgent duties at work. So we expect Dr Nakaš to join today's session, the 50th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. Niko of the other MPs announced their absence. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you have received a draft agenda for today's 50th session. What you have received in 16 points of the agenda is a proposal from the College or the decision of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. In relation to the call or agenda, which you received in the call for today's session, as you can see what's darkened, on the call that you have, or on the list of agendas delivered to you today, is a newspaper compared to what you received in the call, which is point 5, which is actually a mandatory item of the agenda. This is a request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Criminal Procedure under an emergency procedure in accordance with Rule 104 of our Rules of Procedure. Then point (c) of point 15 is to give consent to the ratification of the Development Loan Agreement, the provision of urban infrastructure and the provision of services between BiH and the International Association for Development and Point 16 that is the selection of Ms Senija Kapetanović as a member of the Administrative Commission, then the Commission for Human Rights Immigration, Refugees and Asylum and a member of the Interparliamentary Group of BiH in the Interparliamentary Union. This is the agenda that was agreed at the College session and the General Assembly. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Anyone who wants to talk, go ahead. Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić answered the question. After that, Mr. Beriz Belkić, please. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15933	I would not like to discuss the content of the agenda, but I would like to ask another respected Kolegijum and professional services not to make discrimination among the MPs in this House. Let's just say, I'm just listening to this agenda, no one's treated themselves, and this is already happening several times to put that agenda here in front of the MPs. Is there a scheme there that MPs should receive on the agenda that MPs should not receive on the agenda? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15934	Thank you, Mr. Moranjkić. If you have not received this innovative agenda, then it is a mistake of the Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat. There is no discrimination between MPs and there are no MPs who receive the agenda and those who do not receive the agenda. It would be a harsh violation of this House's work. If you have not received the agenda, I ask the Secretariat to immediately share the agenda with all MPs who have not received it and that is the error of the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Mr. Beriz Belkić, please. Have Mr. Nikola Špirić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15935	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Party for BiH MPs' Club suggests that item 4 of the proposed agenda for today's session, namely the report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2003 be removed from the agenda, as a kind of protest by this House towards the promoter, because it is fully deplaced in January 2005 to consider the 2003 report on the implementation of the budget. In particular, given that Parliament's working bodies and Parliament itself had absolutely no data on the implementation of the 2004 budget during the debate on the 2005 budget. Here, that's a proposal from the Party for BiH MPs' club.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15936	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. Mr. Nikola Špirić has his word. Who wants to talk more about the agenda? Mr. Živković, get ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15937	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests, I was thinking whether or not in the matter of the agenda, in this way I would try to reach someone I would say the racial and rational position of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. In fact, it is almost certain that this House of State Parliament is entering a phase of cold labour. I don't just know if we're aware of it. It's like working on empty water, not making flour. Because last time we had a debate about whether or not there was a Council of Ministers crisis. The public is halted by the information that the Council of Ministers will not be in session until the crisis of the Republika Srpska government, the election of the Republika Srpska government, is resolved, which, according to my assessment, has no close connection. 3 The question arises whether we as a State Parlement, as one House of State Parliament, should be deaf to all that is happening around us and slow down on our own, the path of BiH towards Euro-Atlantic integration. In particular, it seems to me that we are in a phase of cold work, which I see that those who are at last say who should worry about everything that is going on in the country should be here with us today, because we are discussing amending and supplementing the Central Bank Act, the budget, the implementation of last year's budget, and these are members of the Presidency and representatives of the Council of Ministers. That is why it would be good if during the session, while the council is sitting at least strong enough to come here and defend the proposed draft budget and legislative projects that are important for BiH. But what I would like this House to take, within the framework of which I agree with the agenda and my consent was within the College, but it seems to me that it would be good for the citizens that we represent, that this House adopts one conclusion which would oblige the Prime Minister's Presidency to inform this House as soon as possible whether there is a crisis of the Council of Ministers or not and to say what is left of the Ministers' Council and what it does to chair that this problem is the least said over. That's what this Parliament, that information would have to have. I have to say, I don't see any connection between what's going on in the RS government's election and what's going on in the Council of Ministers, even though it's skillfully making that date for no reason. The RS government resigned and the job will end there. We have the Council of Ministers here. We have two or three resignations. Are they accepted? If they are, why? As the Council will be filled in, they are not accepted, why they are not accepted, so this House, which elects the Council of Ministers, must have information so that we do not come into the situation to schedule the House session without having important legal projects to discuss. So, I just want to draw attention to the seriousness of the problem and it seems to me that the state's parliament's underactive position on the problems ahead of us, and we will not be able to avoid the responsibility of the state Parliament when it comes to the work of the state government. That's why I think I'm proposing a working conclusion, so it's in charge of the Council of Ministers' chairmanship to brief this House as soon as possible whether or not the Council of Ministers is in session. What does it mean for this country if it doesn't meet the Council of Ministers for two months? So whether the Council of Ministers is in session, what about the resignations of ministers and whether there is a crisis in the council, and to inform us about the measures that it takes to overcome the problems. At least we deserve it as a state Parliament, here I am offering this working conclusion and this is the easiest form of conclusion that we, as one House of State Parliament, can direct to the Council of Ministers. No, not as a special working conclusion, it doesn't have to be on the agenda. Don't ask the MP questions would be too unserious, Mr. Belkić, compared to the problem that lies ahead. I know this, I have no intention of making this a policy, and it's really not my goal, even though last time there was an attempt to impute it. But if this state parliament, we are not aware of the depth of the crisis. If there were any luck, this would be the first item of the agenda today. Well, if there's a mood, it may be a part of the agenda, but if there isn't, I suggest at least a working conclusion to inform us people. Thank you very much. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15938	Thank you. Who does? Mr. Milorad Živković. Just please, Mr. Živković, they're warning me that your card isn't in the right place, so set up the card, here. I'm so reminded to distract you, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15939	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed on this agenda in principle and the SNSD Club does not intend to add new points to the agenda. However, because of the situation that is happening and in connection with the inspection at Han Pijesk's barracks, we believe that this House should adopt a working conclusion in which it is ordered by the Council of Ministers, more specifically by the Ministry of Defence, that before delivering the report to the High Representative who did not elect this Council of Ministers and who did not choose this Ministry of Defence, this information should be delivered first to this House. That information should be available by February 15th, we believe that this House should be held until the next session to get that information and possibly discuss it, to see who in this country is not telling the truth. Whether there were actions in the sense of hiding persons suspected of war crimes in that barracks or not. I think it would be fair and fair for this Parliament to know that information. We didn't put it as a part of the agenda, so we didn't turn out to prejudge things. We believe that the minister could not give us such information today, but it would be good for this House to make a commitment to the Council of Ministers to deliver that information to us by next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15940	Anyone else want to talk? Mr. Momčilo Novaković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15941	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I would only ask colleagues who propose working conclusions to get it in writing because it is really very difficult for us to define ourselves for them in one reading. So, once I've heard, uh, I need to see these conclusions completely, so I'd like to ask that they be delivered to us before the vote. If it takes a short break, then let's take a short break.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15942	Thank you. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? I'm closing the debate on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have three new proposals. It is one proposal for Mr Beriz Belkić to remove item 4 from the agenda of today's session and we have suggestions from Mr Špirić and Mr Milorad Živković. Like this, I'm against the practice of past the agenda of so-called. We express our views on some issues in BiH by working conclusions, but of course I cannot be against 5 that the proposal should be included in the session's agenda. And we can declare that because this would first lead us in some debate over the agenda into something that is not really the agenda, and I also understand Mr. Nikola Špirić and Mr. Milorad Živković's proposals as proposals for conclusions as points of the agenda. And this proposal by Mr Špirić as the 17th point of the agenda and Mr Živković as the 18th point of the agenda, and we will, of course, declare ourselves, is the only way we can plead. So, the proposal for a conclusion, so when it comes, we'll see how and what if of course it does, given that we've already received one piece of information from the chairman of the Council of Ministers at the last session. I invite you distinguished colleagues and colleagues to prepare for a statement on the agenda. We're voting on the gentleman's proposal, let's, in the meantime, share it with the MPs, they've heard what this content is now, depending on it, please, I don't think there's any need to lose it. We've got a lot of work to do today. I can therefore present to you the text of these conclusions again, you can hear them and in the meantime multiply. I think this is enough to make a decision on the agenda. But if
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15943	On behalf of the five-minute break club.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15944	But if you insist on the puzzle, of course I will satisfy it even though I'm against it but since we have a request of two clubs for a five-minute crawl, it's 10:25, at 10:30 we continue and you from the professional service please at least give a few of these copies to the presidents of the clubs to at least look at it, and then multiply the rest later. Break five minutes. We're going back to work. [[PAUZA]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are currently in the O.R. 35, according to a professional service report. So we have conditions for normal work and decision-making. Here, he joined us in the meeting and governor of the Central Bank of BiH Kemal Kozarić. I greet him on behalf of all of us with associates. We're moving on to a plea, Mr. Živković is asking for a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15945	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, just to explain, means this five-minute break. I hope everyone's got our conclusion that you didn't get, then I'll read it if you'll allow it. So, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH asks the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of Defence to provide complete information at the first next session on the inspection carried out by Han Pijesk and to report to this House on the possible involvement of military persons in the hiding of persons suspected of war crimes in that barracks in the summer of 2004. The conclusion represents the Council of Ministers' obligation to deliver the report to this Assembly at the next session, and not 6 leaves out the possibility to a commission that has oversight of the Ministry of Defence and to work to hold its session on the report before the meeting of this House. On the other hand, we ask that this conclusion be before the agenda of the same practice as we did at the 49th session, we have here a record, when we adopted the conclusion before the agenda. The reason is simple, not to type the agenda again, not to discuss the agenda, but to vote on this conclusion as a working conclusion before the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15946	I thank Mr. Živković for once again explaining your conclusion. This is about the agenda. I have rightly received a warning that when the debate is on the agenda, then we are discussing whether something will be the subject of the agenda or not, and I ask you if we have done so far, to rule out this practice in the future on the agenda to open topics, this is a principle issue, and your proposal for a conclusion will be a proposal for inclusion in today's session agenda and that we are doing this in the future because this is the only proper business manner of this House that does not deny the right of MPs to all that they think is the subject of deciding this House at a given time. I'm asking you to appreciate this. This is really business, if we've had this practice so far, then that practice goes back to the spirit and letters of the Rules of Procedure that this House is working on. I hope in the meantime you've won the written form of this conclusion. If someone hasn't won, I ask the service to deliver those conclusions to the people who haven't received the MPs. But we can already begin to declare Mr. Beriz Belkić's proposal. Mr. Beriz Belkić suggests that item 4 of the agenda be removed from the debate from today's session. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Prepare to vote. And vote now. 17's in, 18's against it. Therefore, there is no general parliamentary support and I find that Mr Beriz Belkić's proposal has not been adopted and that item 4 remains item 4 of the agenda. We're moving on to a plea, we're voting now we can't do it now. I apologize to Mrs Hadžiahmetović, we vote, we enter the voting phase. I beg you when we enter the voting phase so we don't open the debate. If you can appreciate this suggestion. We move on to a statement on Mr Nikola Špirić's proposal. Mr. Nikola Špirić suggests that a proposal for his conclusion should be included as the 17th item of the agenda. So the 17th item of the agenda would be Mr. Nikola Špirić's proposal for a conclusion. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 7 I find that with 19 votes against, 8 votes against, with a sufficient entity majority, Dom adopted the 17th item of the agenda, the proposal of Mr Nikola Špirić, which was divided into benches. We move to a statement on the 18th item of Mr. Milorad Živković's agenda, which reads, the proposal for the conclusion of Mr. Milorad Živković. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the 32-vote House of Representatives voted in favour, 3 votes against and 2 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority as the 18th item of today's session included a proposal for the conclusion of Mr Milorad Živković. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I hereby declare today's 50th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives as follows. 1st minutes with 48th and 49th session of the House of Representatives, 2nd. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Šefik Džaferović on the proposal for a law amending the Labour Act in BiH institutions, 4. Report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2003, 5. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code on Criminal Procedure by Emergency Procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the BiH Central Bank Act, first reading, 7. Proposal for a Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations of BiH for 2005, First Reading, 8. Proposal for a law on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations for 2005, first reading, 9. Proposal for a law on the census of households, apartments and agricultural holdings in 2005, proposed by MP Milorad Živković, first reading, 10. Proposal for uniform rules for the establishment of legal rules in BiH institutions, 11. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the Value Added Tax Act, VAT, 12. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the Law on the Import and Export of Arms and Military Equipment, 13. Proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 51(a) of the Copyright and Related Rights Act in BiH Official Messenger of BiH No 32/02, 14. Report of the Constitutional and Legal Committee on the need to amend Articles 13 and 11. BiH Election Law, Official Messenger of BiH No. 23/01, 7/02, 9/02, 20/02, 25/02, 4/04, and 20/04, instead of giving an authentic interpretation of this article, 15. Giving consent to ratification under (a) the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the joint financing of the maintenance and propulsion of the Comarna-Neum-Mljetski channel regional sewerage system, (b) the Treaty between the Government of BiH and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Wine Cooperation in 2003, 8 c) the Development Loan Agreement, (providing urban infrastructure and providing services) closed brackets, between BiH and the International Development Association, 16. The selection of Ms Senija Kapetanović as a member, under (a) Administrative Commission, (b) Commission on Human Rights Immigration, Refugees and Asylum and (c) Interparliamentary Group of BiH in the Interparliamentary Union, 17. Proposal for the conclusion of Mr Nikola Špirić, 18. Proposal for the conclusion of Mr Milorad Živković's MP. This is the agenda of today's session of distinguished ladies and gentlemen. We move to the first item of the agenda, business intervention, what is it? Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović answers her word, I give her my word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15947	I thank the chairman. I would ask that before we move to the working part of today's session, this Parliament with a minute of silence or learning fatihya honors, or in some way respect for the victims in Southeast Asia caused by tragedy, the last tragedy in December.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15948	I call on the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and all invited to get up in the O.R., to pay our respects to the South East Asia in a minute of silence and learning fatihha. Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I am obliged to inform you that we have discussed this topic and the College this morning for BiH Parliamentary Assembly MPs to join the BiH action in helping the victims and threatened by the effects of tsunamis in Southeast Asia. This is a recommendation from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. And I was going to let you know anyway. We're moving on to today's session agenda. The first point is, Ad.1. A record of the 48th and 49th session of the House of Representatives, I am opening a debate on these minutes. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Prepare to plead, move to a statement, vote first on the 48th session minutes. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House is unanimous with 33 votes for, some MPs have not put in the cards yet, I call on them to do so, with a sufficient entity majority, adopted the minutes of the 48th session. We're moving on to a record statement from the 49th session. Prepare to vote. 9 Vote now. I also find that the predstavnički of Representatives unanimously adopted the minutes from the 49th session of the House of Representatives. Moving to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad2. MPs' questions and answers From the 48th session to the present day were asked by MPs Mr Muhamed Moranjkić at the 45th session, Mr Ljiljana Milićević, Ivo Lozančić, Vinko Zorić, Momčilo Novaković and Ivo Miro Jović asked questions at the 46th session and Miloš Jovanović asked the question at the 47th session. Any comments? Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15949	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Probably the other MPs got this so-called. The answer to my question. I have to say so-called. Because this is no answer, this is a joke from the answer, this is the irony and sarcasm that the Council of Ministers persistently reflects through questions, according to this Parliament and the MPs. Every day when I ask a question and I get an answer, I determine the statement of one distinguished person from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, spoken at the embassy in Geneva in the presence of my colleague, Dr. Petar Kunić, that.....in the Council of Ministers, they mock the questions of MPs. This is an obvious picture that's it, that's it. So, if I didn't, because I wouldn't go further into analysis because this is really sarcasm, I'm saying this isn't the answer, and I'm looking for the right answer. True, I must remind my fellow Members of Parliament that there are hundreds of questions in this House. Of which 90% of MPs, MPs were dissatisfied and asked for a repeat reply. As far as I know, none of the MPs in this House have ever received a second answer. All this therefore confirms the relations of the Council of Ministers or some of those responsible for this Parliament and these MPs. This is a mess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15950	Thank you. Who wants coelga and co-workers who got the answers to comment? Mr. Vinko Zorić came forward, after which Ljilja Milićević will prepare himself, so much I see for now, and we will continue, and Mrs. Sopta, but here I have already called some order, don't be angry.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15951	I have received an answer to one of my questions and not only that I am dissatisfied but I am very sad when I read this answer, I will only read the question and the last item of the answer. The answer is too long, we'd probably all be 10 more disappointed if I read it all to you, but I'll read it. The question was why is the price of oil in BiH unambiguously high, since a large number of households and other entities are heating up on that energy? The last item says, an increase in sales taxes and excise duties on lye oil aims to reduce the abuse of this energy. Namely, in a large number of cases, oil was imported and distributed as diesel fuel and due to an inadequate control system and a large number of importers and distributors, this phenomenon was very difficult to control. Is this the state admitting its impotence? They could have written us powerless, we can't fill the budget, but we'll introduce more if we need 50 fenings on the box of oil and other energies. I'm very unhappy and very sad. I note here for a hundred times and for who knows which time, that the price of this energy plant is 50 fenings higher than in the Republic of Croatia. And we know what the standard is in the Republic of Croatia, and what it is in BiH. I am renewing my question and joining in that I have been dissatisfied many times and never received a reply. In fact, I am this question to the Council of Ministers and I have received some answers as it is in Republika Srpska, as it is in the Federation etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15952	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Ljiljana Milićević. Let Mrs. Ruža Sopta be prepared. You'll get your word, then, Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15953	Thank you. Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I would also like to comment on the answer to the question I asked at the 46th session of this House. The issue was addressed to the Council of Ministers, referring to the fact that in the medium-term development strategy of BiH adopted here in the 2004 Action Plan, part of the Sectoral Statistics Priorities, it was required to make a political decision on the timing of the census. As a carrier, he was a certain council of ministers. I asked him the question, what about the decision because it is not being treated in the 2005 Action Programme. And it's not said to have been done, so it's lost. The answer, what my predecessors said at the beginning of their presentation, you see the answer completely, the first sentence is, the list is statistical research, the point. That's what the answer looks like. And then he says, "I'm actually okay with the Statistics Agency, which is an operative that I didn't even ask because they need to get a job to do that shop." They, people say they're not in charge of it. So they fit me, the Statistics Agency that I haven't asked at all. They'd ask if a decision had been made, they didn't do anything, and they just say people were lucky enough to attend a meeting in Geneva where they met countries that did the 2001 census, presented how they were doing it and how they planned to do 2010. 11 The bottom line is, I didn't get the answer to the question, which is the fact that the Council of Ministers is hiding behind the Statistics Agency, and it won't say, and here today we will have a chance to make a statement, to see what our will is about the census or to wait in 2010 to settle 20 years from the last census, so whoever is alive is waiting for us to sign up. I'm renewing the matter to the Council of Ministers, not the Statistics Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15954	Thank you. Mrs. Ruža Sopta, may Mr. Ivo Lozančić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15955	I'm sorry, I didn't have a comment on the answer. I was out, but I had a request for a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15956	We'll do that later. Mr. Ivo Lozančić. Thank you, Mrs. Sopta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15957	Mr. Chairman, I'll be very brief. I got a relatively fast answer, which is a bit surprising from the Council of Ministers, but both issues and appointments of boards and transfer of assets and funds are practically just a confirmation of what I asked, that they are not respected deadlines. In the end, there is not even an additional explanation, which is essential that they are not respected by the law set deadlines and that the independent members decided not to use extraordinary powers yet, which says that we are also adopting the law but very difficult to implement. Which was often the subject that we very often and slowly implement and open up questions and other laws that we adopted whether they were implemented at all. And for that reason I can't be satisfied, although everything the government has written is true.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15958	Thank you. I see there's no comment anymore. Now let's go to the new MPs' questions. Who wants to ask a new parliamentary question? Mr. Sead Avdić first raised his hand I saw. But here, since Mrs. Sopta first announced her question in a comment, we'll give her a head start. Mrs. Sopta, come in. Have Mr. Sead Avdić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15959	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a question for the High Representative. 12 What is the European standard in education afraid of Hrvat in BiH or against which are Hrvat in BiH? In a congratulations on the new year, which Mr. High Representative directed to the peoples of BiH, he told the Hrvat not to fear European standards in education. I suppose Mr High Representative had in mind the legislative legislation that was adopted in this House because it was the most present last year, when it comes to education and when it comes to the integration of European standards. The Hrvat, whose representative I am in this legislative body, only wanted to legalize the law of the Constitution, which is that Hrvat also have the right to education in their own language, which means the existence of educational institutions in Croatian. As well as information in Croatian. This only confirms that Hrvat in BiH are fighting for European standards in education and information. In fact, we advocate educational institutions and in the Croatian language in which anyone will be able to enroll, so that there is no word or place for segregation, whoever wants to be educated in Croatian, can be entered into that institution. Also, all teachers who wish to teach in Croatian have the right to work in such institutions. Let's be clear, on the frustration of the workforce and be clear about segregation. In fact, this congratulation really disappointed me. Usually congratulations should be made available to people, I am saddened by the fact that after that imputation of segregation, we are now imputed and that we as a legislative body because we build standards we are against and fear the standards of Europe, and in fact I feel that there is only pure assimilation on the stage. And to confirm this and work in practice, I don't know how many opportunities you've had to read in the means of information lately, that in Mostar OSC again several times gives a lecture and brings a translator, a lecture to Hrvat students, and brings translators who translate in another language and not Croatian. And when they leave the students together with their teacher, then the teacher is called to account within half an hour. This is indeed not appropriate to the European standard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15960	Thank you. Mr. Sead Avdić. Let Petar Kunić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15961	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I would like to ask two questions. It is one of the main reasons why the programming tasks of the Middle-term Development Strategy Action Programme, as the PRSP says, are not implemented in all respects of the fight against corruption, 10, 11, 12 and 13. I'm having an aferiti on what was done last 2004. If I tell you that these are important institutions that were to be formed, such as entity agencies to fight fraud, then the witness protection agency, so set up the Financial Affairs Intelligence Unit, and establish appropriate bodies at state, entity justice ministries to coordinate activities in the fight against corruption. So no task is simply done. 13 And under two, when the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Directorate for indirect taxation, is to adopt this document under a legal act, and it is called the Regulation on special measures of customs supervision and how to charge on excise goods. Which means that after the adoption of the Excise Act that we passed just before the new year, this act had to be adopted urgently, in order not to create what is already present today, and that means, unequal and I would say intentional interpretations of the law, allow for the continued functioning of uncontrolled imports of goods into BiH, especially fruit juices and other high-tariff products in BiH. So once again, this sublegal act is necessary and urgent. Not to give examples of abuse and events in practice. That's below two. And Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, believe me, there are no more boring points than there are questions of MPs. They're not interesting to the media. Parliament issues become a private matter for every single person. The Council of Ministers shall therefore apply. I ask you, if it is in any way possible how and in any way to make these issues transparent, available to the public and answers to the available public. Well, it's not really a private matter for every single person here and the MP. I ask the College to find the mechanisms, that these questions come to citizens and answer citizens without being kept simply as the private property of every MP per person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15962	Thank you, Mr. Avdić. I'm going to make a brief comment on this last question of yours, or the last finding. Of course she's very important and that's why I'm getting involved. I wish that matter to our Rules of Procedure, and you're the president of the Rules of Procedure Commission, was arranged as an example. as arranged by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Norwegian Parliament, because I was present there and watched questions be asked and how questions are answered immediately on the spot. I beg you to take care of it, you'll be supported by it, here I can say for myself but I hope both the College and all the other colleges. You have a chance, and we have a chance to get this thing sorted out. Mr. Petar Kunić came to the floor. Have Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić prepare himself. Here's Branka's writing to me here, and I'm reading how to write it, and here's Branka to follow. Branka, follow. I apologize. Here you go, Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15963	I wanted to ask the next question. In fact, it is now a very current fill-in of workers, i.e. officials at the Directorate for Direct Taxation and Customs Administration. According to the information received, they shall be filled in in a loud manner according to party membership. This specifically applies to the Customs Administration. I therefore propose that the Customs Administration and the Taxation Administration submit a report to the Parliamentary Assembly on the human resources of these services and on their structure. In addition, according to all the information and direct contacts, I was under the impression that laws were really breaking there. Namely, in the customs administrations they received a listing so they were told, you are not coming to work from that date and that date, those who were admitted are coming 14 etc. I think in this country they have at least the right to object, the right to appeal, etc. if they apply for a working relationship in an institution. These are absurd things, absurd. There is dissatisfaction among people, these are large groups of people, and I think that, in some way, through appropriate instruments, we need to intervene in that area, if that's the situation, what kind of information I've got. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15964	Thank you. For a word, the word is therefore Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić, and may Mr. Momčilo Novaković be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15965	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen, fellow MPs and MPs, I'd like to ask two questions with a few questions. My first question is about the entrance of oil and suspicious goods to Brcko District, which is now the black gate of entry into BiH. The explanation, today and for a long time on the Brcko-Bunja bridge, takes place under alleged signs, a review of oil tanks and oil derivatives and goods suspicious and quantity, quality and type by BH customs with the assistance of KAFAO. At first glance, nothing unusual but it is. There is currently one of the most organised crimes in BiH, in terms of both the material value and the type of participants in the crime. Crime is in the next, tanks and suspicious trucks with suspicious goods, entering a customs terminal is not a legal obligation. The contents of the tanks and trucks are not examined on any basis. Not by quantity, not by quality or by type, and the accompanying documentation is probably falsified and as such is the only real document by which we call ourselves customs and entry goods with hand passing. I ask, is this a product of a new and better organisation of customs and control of the entry of high-tariff and suspected goods into this country, which in which way receives this authorized position and status and everything in these trucks and tanks of smugglers and who cooperates with this organized mafia? Do they know who's responsible in this country for this and what they're going to do about it? And the second question, in writing, I'm not going to explain it because it would be a long time. There's a whole file, it's a matter of the judiciary and certain evidence and documents, and I'll just add it, but all I'm asking is that it registers that such a question has been asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15966	I thank you, of course, all questions must come in writing to the Secretariat of Parliament, you should give them to the officers who are present and who are following our work, including this documentation and the issue of the problem you have mentioned. The word is Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Let Mr. Beriz Belkić prepare himself. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15967	Gentlemen, my question is, above all, I intend to warn of an inadmissible deviation in the national structure of employees in BiH institutions. According to the information available, this national representation is to the detriment of the Serbian people in almost all institutions, including all agencies, directorates and ministries. What can be particularly indicative is that in the agencies that need to worry about it, it is evident, such as the State Service Agency. As a result, my question and it says, how many employees do the Agency for the State Service and the Directorate for European Integration have, in a permanent working relationship, in a working relationship with a certain time or on the basis of a contract and what is national representation towards the character or form of a working relationship? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15968	Thank you. Mr. Beriz Belkić, get ready for Mr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15969	So, the question is asked by the Party's Club of Representatives for BiH. In October 2004, in the final phase of the parliamentary process of harmonising the single text of the FIPI Act, a statement was made to all the media sent by the director of the agency, which will be notified by the adopted BiH law of about $20m of the World Bank's loan intended to improve the BAC business environment. Question for the Council of Ministers, has there been a suspension of this credit arrangement and, if so, what are the consequences? I'm taking the opportunity to perhaps try to introduce Mr. Chairman to try to introduce the practice of the Norwegian Parliament since we have the Secretary-General here, maybe get an answer right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15970	I thank Mr. Beriz Belkić. The word has been given by Minister Ljerka Marić, the finance minister to answer this question, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15971	I welcome you all today, and here I'll be glad to see if it's about the reform course that he's also referring to these procedural things. As far as BAC is concerned, it was indeed one of the conditions for the BiH BAC to be awarded was apart, meaning in the context of creating conditions for a better business environment, and the adoption of the FIP law, i.e. the positioning of the FIP by law rather than the decision it was. During the drafting of the law and during the procedure that lasted in Parliament, there were some adjustments, etc. but the World Bank means respecting BiH's efforts in the sense that 16 BiH wants to pass the law, and that the law is as acceptable, and thus it is not... The BAC hasn't even been hitched yet... although there are a lot of problems related to.... So, it's not BAC... definitely, although BiH doesn't get anything out of it just entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15972	Thank you for your response. So we have one less job, we don't have to write a letter about this question or forward the answer. So the answer is there. Next to the word, to ask a question Mr. Živković, let Mr. Ćeman be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15973	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this should be a practice in this way to discuss here in Parliament, so if anyone from the ministry can answer my brief question. Has the Return Fund Fund Fund Fund, signed between entity governments, the Brcko District Government and the Council of Ministers been respected? If not, then in writing to get that answer. Namely, I have information that the first deal was about 18 million, with the RS, the Federation giving about 2.5-3 million, Brcko 1 and BiH institutions all the rest. Republika Srpska respected the deal, Brcko paid 29.12. We don't know about the others. And the state respected, who hasn't respected it yet?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15974	Don't, don't do that, we can't do that, we all need to hear the question and the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15975	Here, if you can answer my question, then I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15976	Have you finished yours, thank you very much. Madam Minister, does he want to give you an answer? You'll go out for a pay phone and you'll give the answer to everyone, please. The word has the BiH Finance Minister, Mrs. Ljerka Marić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15977	The Fund is assumed to have been set up by that decision, the Director and the Budgetary User have been elected in one part, and the state has therefore fulfilled its share of the liabilities of little less than 2.5 million for part of the costs that the Fund itself has made as a user, means it has been transferred in a special way to the Central Bank, as regards BiH institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15978	Thank you, Madam Minister. Mr. Živković, 17
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15979	Now there's a conflicting question about one minute, and that's who's responsible for honoring that agreement? So the BiH budget has paid the share but the Council of Ministers has been the initiator of the agreement and a fund has been created at the level of the BiH state, I am now asking here who is responsible for not respecting the agreement. Let's just say the Federation didn't pay. And who is responsible for not respecting this agreement and whether someone will go out with it, because in this country we obviously have a case of non-compliance with agreements and full mouth stories of return, the Dayton Agreement, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15980	Thank you. In any case, we'll forward this supplement to the Council of Ministers and you'll get the answer I hope in writing. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, get ready for Mr. Muhamed Altić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15981	Even though, as Dr Avdić said, someone can treat this as a private relationship to questions, I still think that every question here is immersed and is both in the service and in the function of what you MPs are doing. So even though I haven't asked the last few sessions questions, based on the contacts I've had in a recent period, I have three questions and they're next. First, to the Council of Ministers, I ask the question whether and what can be the emphasis here, too, and what more can be done to make the agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia as well as BiH and the SR of Yugoslavia, or the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, on matters of pension insurance. I call it this short, it has its official name, more effective implementation in order for citizens of BiH, of course, and other Contracting States to exercise their rights. Many still do not receive their pensions and are in an extremely difficult material situation. This is at the same time an initiative that in all official contacts of BiH representatives with those countries, therefore their representatives, this issue is potential in parliamentary contacts, contacts with the Presidency, interstate councils, etc. At the same time that an agreement on legal issues will finally be concluded and this is working to say the name, between the Republic of Croatia and other states of course and BiH and the Republic of Croatia and other countries, and what is possibly the issue still? I'm looking for a written answer. The second question, even though we have today's List Law and other issues concerning statistics, I have a question that actually refers to the statistical activity and organisation of BiH in general. How is the Law on Statistics of BiH, Official Journal No. 26/04, implemented with regard to the professional and management training of the BiH Statistics Agency, the equipment of the necessary means, or equipment and space, which are and when statistical research programmes for the whole country are adopted, what is co-operation with 18 entity statistical institutions, what are the problems as well as the relationship between the Bureau of Statistics of the Brcko District? To what extent is this activity integrated according to the provisions of the law, and which and from whom are the disturbances of the present period? The issue to the BiH Statistics Agency, a written response. And the third question, even though it was in the papers these days, but the newspaper as a newspaper, some statement by the resolution minister on the subject, I want an official report. In fact, we witness daily the lines in front of this building, where we are sitting, practically in front of the Resorn Ministry, which show that BiH citizens are increasingly applying for a press release from BiH's citizenship, unfortunately. It's a question of the Ministry of Civil Affairs. How many BiH citizens have so far asked for a BiH state record? Which countries they're going to and can I say again, can anything be done to prevent this trend, of course, this part isn't just for this ministry. How many countries have BiH concluded a dual citizenship agreement so far? When will the parliamentary ratification procedure, which agreements and with which states are in preparation, at which stage and what difficulties are there, and whether citizens who seek out citizenship will be discussed previously, or whether it is only about cold administration without feeling what it means for such a country, namely according to the number of populations? A question from the Ministry of Civil Affairs, a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15982	I thank Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. The word is Mr. Muhamed Altić. Let Mr. Selim Bešlagić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15983	According to the BiH Ministry of Justice, a meeting of the Interstate Council of BiH and the Republic of Croatia was scheduled to take place three months ago. The meeting was to be on the agenda and the issue of property-legal relations. That information was officially given in the paper by official representatives of the justice ministry. I'm interested. I'm asking a question. If the meeting was held, if what was signed, if it wasn't signed, why wasn't it held? The second issue concerns property-legal relations and the question of a contract that should possibly be signed. The deal is intended to provide for only one member to regulate the issue of property-legal relations between the two states. We all know and read daily what happens to property and natural and legal persons in the Republic of Croatia, so I would like to take this opportunity to give the initiative to give the property that is not disputed, to return immediately, to be a member of the 1st and to place under Article 2 all other assets that should be settled over time. This is what I demand because the property that BiH's physical and legal persons in the Republic of Croatia possess is exposed to robbery, the tooth of time, it collapses, it loses its value. Thank you very much. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15984	Thank you. Mr. Selim Bešlagić, may Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija be prepared. And, no more reports, anyway, time's running out of time for an hour. Then we can give it to these colleagues for a little while. Okay, we'll continue but very briefly, please fit in for an hour. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15985	What will be done to place stamps with a new price after the adoption of the Excise Act on Cigarettes, because they are now sold but with an increased price compared to the one indicated on the stamp. I think it's a violation, and that's why I think it should be given instructions because, as information suggests, there's a supply of old stamps that they still give for cigarettes by the time they're six months old.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15986	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. By the time Mr. Lagumdžija finishes his phone, Mr. Lagumdžija has his word, please. Have Mr. Zorić Vinko prepare himself and then Mr. Suljkanović and we're done, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15987	I thank Mr. Džaferović. I answered the question, I didn't plan to ask the question, but on this agenda point, I answered the word just for the address of Ms. Minister, Mrs. Marić. Since in this country normal things are abnormal and normal abnormal again, and vice versa, I just wanted to thank her for introducing a new practice that we forgot, to the ministers to answer us. And it would be a good reason for us to get as many answers as possible in time, no matter how much we agree with them or not. I only use the opportunity in light of our earlier conclusions on parliamentary issues, when we asked for this, to say that Minister Marić, honored Parliament for having responded in accordance with the normal procedure and tradition of every democratic country, and what they say as serious people when we do something good, it is good for this other side to acknowledge and praise it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15988	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. The College is headed by Parliament and we thanked you on behalf of Parliament, of course, it is our obligation, but it is no matter if you thank each other there is no problem. Thank you for that. Mr. Vinko Zorić. Have Mr. Muhamed Suljkanović prepare, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15989	I have one representative question. I am interested in the establishment of the BiH Luttrija, who is the founder of the lottery, does this institution stimulate cultural sports alliances and competitions of importance for BiH and who is on the Governing Board of the Luthera BiH? 20 I ask this question for reasons because we saw how various laws attacked the standard of BiH citizens and yesterday we spent a lot of time agreeing to the VAT law on whether VAT on gambling or not should, so it turns out that I don't need to be interested in how this lottery works at the end and the name of BiH?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15990	Mr. Mehmed Suljkanović, please. I apologize for making a mistake in his name just before when I announced him, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15991	The two issues I have are related to the procedure carried out in a public advert and the solution following the appeal of the Konzrci kip on the procedure carried out in the Public Advert for the project Highway on VC Corridor, drawing up planer-study documentation. The first question concerns the World Bank procedures called on by the Commission for the Assessment and Selection by tender documentation, and the second issue concerns the composition of the evaluation committee and the selection of the tender documentation. A detailed explanation, i.e. the clarification of these two questions I gave in... in writing, so I would not want to take up any further time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15992	Thank you, Mr. Suljkanović. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I call you once again to turn off your cell phones and not talk to our phones while we hold a session. This is on the skin which, at the request of many MPs, I repeat this again. This way, I'm concluding the second item of the agenda. We're going to the third item of the agenda, that's A.3. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach an agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Šefik Džaferović on the proposal for a law amending the Labour Act in BiH You have received a report from the Commission. The college has reached agreement on the text of the conclusion that it actually makes a recommendation to the entity and cantonal authorities that, if in the regulations they adopt, the issue of maternity leave is not treated in the way that the BiH Labour Act is treated in this way. I hereby declare this House adopted this conclusion and it will be forwarded to the appropriate addresses. That's how I declare the end point three of the agenda. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda, 21 Ad.4. A report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2003, you received a report on the implementation of BiH's 2003 international commitments. You have received a report from the Finance Commission and the budget on the review of this report, on the implementation of the budget, the House adopts itself. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Prepare to plead. Dear colleagues and colleagues, there's no problem you'll get the word of course, but I'm asking you to hold on to what I'm saying. I see well, and besides that I have glasses and I saw that at the moment I concluded the hearing there were no reports and I waited a few seconds after that, after I asked you to prepare, I hung my hand up. And of course, Mrs. Azra Hadžiahmetović has a word, but for this, I ask you to follow what I'm saying about this speaker. Here you go, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15993	I thank the chairman. I last time was one of the initiators of the debate on the report on budget implementation, which is common, since all of this, you have seen yourself on several occasions calling for the experience of other parliaments from developed economies, to consider the report for the previous year, which does not mean the final report, the final report, etc. I will take the opportunity to remind you that, unfortunately, only today, we have received a 2003 report, although the Council of Ministers has been committed, I mention the Council of Ministers, although here is a resolute minister, which of course goes not only to the address of the Ministerial Minister but to the whole of the Council of Ministers. Although the Council of Ministers was obliged to deliver the report to Parliament earlier. I was informed that the 2003 report on December 2004 came in parliamentary procedure. And this way, I would like to remind you of the obligations of the laws that arise, of course, for the next procedure of the Law on the financing of BiH institutions, where the interred in one of the members of this Parliament, cannot, at present, seem to me to be the 23rd no. 22nd position 6 mentions that within 180 days, that means 6 months after the end of the fiscal year, the Ministry of Finance must prepare and submit an annual report on the implementation of the budget to the Paramentary Assembly following its reference to the Council of Ministers and the Presidency. Which means that within 6 months, the report should be declared, i.e. through the procedure and the Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency. We are unfortunately today in a position to mention, or possibly discuss the 2003 report. I would just like to remind myself that the laws adopted by this Parliamentary Assembly, in addition to this 6-month agreement, are a commitment to a quarterly or periodic report on the implementation of the budget. 22 Why do I find this particularly important? Not that Parliament would be informed of the amount of money spent on each budget beneficiary, as much as in one dynamic of spending budgets within the fiscal year, as well as planning, or possibly including if it can be called a budget plan in one year, given the activities and refoming requirements created during the year by new state institutions and new budgetary commitments. I only want to express my dissatisfaction with this opportunity first, I hope that all the other MPs share it, why today in the parallel procedure we have a 2003 report which, as it seems, will go without any debate here in this House and which, I would like to warn you with a great deal of seriousness and what kind of repercussion for the debate or budget for 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15994	Thank you. Mr. Beriz Belkić answered the word. But before he takes the floor, I have an announcement from the finance minister, Mrs Ljerka Marić, who has an advantage in our Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Marić, here you go. And let Mr. Beriz Belkić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15995	Of course, any delay in anything creates problems in business and then causes problems in other things. Here, I'm not going to keep counting what things are. So as for the report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2003, this report was adopted at the 58th meeting of the Council of Ministers on 10.06.2004. So it was adopted with 10 days of delay within the deadline of the new law. The new law entered into force on 01.01.2005, the law we are now talking about and means the 2004 Report should be adopted at Parliament by the end of the month 6th of next year. In addition, why did the report come to a meeting of the Council of Ministers relatively late? You know very well that the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, the young ministry, especially the Ministry of Treasury, which only technically tried to establish, maintain cash flows between all the users of the budget and, of course, it is much easier to maintain the business of all the users of the budget in the country. In the meantime, we've done everything we can to connect a little bit better with our users, and that's about 40, now I'm speaking to the embassy in my head and the representations that we have out there. So these data were really relatively late, so they came after the 3rd month. In the meantime, we did everything we could to end this and make that rebalancing report for 2003, because you know that we inherited the final budget for 2003, that in the meantime we were doing this rebalancing and that of course nothing justifies us if we were late but this was still for the Council of Ministers in time. So we delivered it further to the procedure as it went and, of course, what happened, the report really came very late. However, you have been very precise and very long considering audit reports for 2003 users per user. When considered, this business was also considered for each user financially and through items means those that exist here, distributed according to these positions as they are in the budget. So as far as we're concerned, it would really be necessary for this 23th report to be adopted in today's Parliament, to end at the end of 2003 and to apply a really strict article 22 for 2004. The law and funding of BiH institutions and that it is really until the end of the sixth month, which is quite logical. Meanwhile, we did a report on the implementation of the budget in six months that was delivered to the Council of Ministers and the Paralment. And after we talk about the budget, I'll tell you on the basis of which data and how the new budget was made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15996	I thank the minister. The replica is requested by Mrs Hadžiahmetović and has time for replication, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15997	Zashvalim, I really don't know, this must be called a replica because there is no other possibility, although I do have the need to say, I did not send anything to Mrs Ljerika Marić, even more I mentioned here, and I know that the report was made by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury in May 2004 but it is illogical that the report in the parliamentary procedure came only in December 2004, report for 2003. I also know that this law came into force after the adoption of the 2003 Report but there were also obligations to report to Parliament and previous acts before the adoption of this law. But my reminder of the Law on the financing of institutions was that it would not happen with the 2004 report, since the law strictly defines the deadlines and especially because of the specific weight of the commitment, that in the next six months at least, at least once in the next six months, we would receive a report on the implementation of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15998	I thank Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. Mr. Beriz Belkić answered the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u15999	I hope we don't bother the MPs of this, ours, so to speak with a rather firm attitude when it comes to today's review of the report. If you look at the Commission's Finance and Budget Report, you will see that the Commission has only received it. What's the point? Simply put, let's just finally send a serious message once and for all and for all and get these things serious. Nothing else. Today we will not raise our hand to adopt a report that refers to a year and a half of old business compared to today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16000	I thank Mr. Belkić Beriz. Mrs Ljiljana Milićević has her word, please. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16001	Mr. Chairman, since we've had this report on budget implementation on the agenda, I just want to warn my colleagues, that we here have said that we are considering the same report and that we have received it. And I suggest that Pralament take this report to the knowledge, in such a way that it does. So it has to be adopted. We're on the commission right now... because we had a budget said we're receiving it to the knowledge and here it still has to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16002	Thank you, Mrs. Milićević. We'll have to make a statement by voting on the report. That's the procedure, I was warned by the Secretariat and I personally think we should do it that way. D, does anyone else want to talk? If no one answers their word anymore, I'm the one who concludes the debate. Respect for my colleague and colleagues, I invite you to prepare for your plea. We vote therefore on this report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2003. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives with 21 zlas for, 7 against, 7 abstentions and with a sufficient entity majority adopted a report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2003. This is how we ended the 4th agenda. We're going to the point of the five agenda, that's Ad.5. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Criminal Procedure under an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Proposal for this Law were delivered to Parliament on 29 December 2004. It was sent to you by mail on January 4th of this year. We only plead to the procedure. So it's about that other kind of emergency procedure that we often call shortened and it's in nature and it's a shortened procedure. And I'm opening up a debate about this, too. Who wants to talk? If no one answers their word, I'm the one who concludes the debate. I invite you to prepare for a plea. We vote on the procedure for Article 104 concerning the request of the Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Criminal Procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. 25 Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives by majority vote, with 28 votes for, 2 against, 4 abstentions, and with a sufficient entity majority, has adopted the procedure of Article 104 for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, which was proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH. This is how we end the 5th agenda. We're going to the 6th agenda, that's Ad. Six. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the BiH Central Bank Act, the first reading of the bill is the BiH presidency. at the 47th session, home is the adoption of the motion to consider the proposed law under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 17 December 2004. For this problem, the Commission for Finance and Budget has been responsible and has been responsible for the Commission for Finance and Budget, a report by the Commission responsible for Finance and Budget, was delivered to you by fax on 10 January 2005. As you have seen, the Commission adopted twelve amendments to the bill. The Commission also proposes to the House to adopt a conclusion, to ask the proposings to hold a hearing before the Commission within 30 days and on the basis of all amendments submitted, to make new amendments and to supplement laws that will address the issue of bank supervisory. In the plenary phase, the amendments were submitted by Mrs. Ruža Sopta – six amendments that the dotter defends in the plenary phase, so also in the phase of the debate before dom and Mrs. Sead Palavrić – eleven amendments he wants to defend again in the plenary phase. The amendments, which challenge all the amendments, are therefore the amendments Mrs Palavrić, she has two types of amendments, 11 amendments that she wants to defend again in the plenary phase and amendments that challenge all the amendments and Mr Beriz Belkić has submitted an amendment to Amendment II of the Commission. I'm opening a debate on the law in my first reading. We're talking about principles. Mr. Vinko Zorić answered the question. Of course, there's also the governor of the Central Bank, if he feels the need and he'll get his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16003	I'm looking for a half-hour break on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16004	At the request of the members of the HDZ Club, I am giving a 30-minute break. Then use it to eat and eat. We'll continue at 12:10. I call on the president of the HDZ Club, the democracies of Mr. Vinko Zorić, if he considers it necessary to address Parliament because a break has been given at his request. [[PAUZA]] Mr. Vinko Zorić has his word. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16005	The reason the club asked for a break is that a large number of amendments appeared and a group of amendments that challenge the entire report in fact, it was a new moment for the club, we asked for a break and the club's position here I can immediately learn that we will support the report and those amendments that do not dispute, simply do not enter into the principles of the report.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16006	I thank Mr. Vinko Zorić for this clarification. I'm opening the debate. He expressed his desire to address the Central Bank Governor, Mr Kemal Kozarić, and I give him my word. Mr. Kozarić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16007	I am taking this opportunity to address the House of Representatives at the beginning of my term, to have the pleasure of speaking to the House of Representatives, and here we have today the Law amending the Central Bank Act. I think I want to give you three principles that these amendments to the law provide for and what changes that make in the business of the Central Bank. The law predicted that here, there were conditions or conditions as you wish, that the Central Bank would for the first time, transfer some of its profits to the state budget and our estimates were that it was somewhere around 12 million marks for the 2004 financial year. I would ask that MPs keep that in mind and that we do not miss this opportunity, that for the first time the Central Bank is transferring to the BiH budget because we know what needs and budgets are and what the needs of all BiH citizens are. The second is, I'd say technically, it's that harmonising international standards where our internal control is now called Internal Audit and it's just one technical repair. I don't think there should be a problem here. That's clear I'd say one attempt to comply with international standards, because otherwise our business is on the principles of international accounting standards. And the third is, I would say, a group of members talking about the supervisory of commercial banks because it is known that in BiH today 33 commercial banks operate, that 14 have their own exposures or agencies in one of the entities and that they have created themselves, I would say the preconditions that this supervisory function on a single principle, i.e. within the Central Bank. I'm saying this purely to express the Central Bank's position and point of view that we are professionally organisationally and technically, I would say by preparing and able to accept that supervisory vision. Of course, during this debate, before this House of Representatives, there were some I would say changes in certain attitudes, and if the procedure hadn't ended I would have said brought, we as interpreters, because the motionary is the Presidency, that I must mention, we would be happy to complete these amendments to Law 27 adopted. If not adopted, however, the supervisory board will operate through entity agencies and commercial banks will do what they were doing, so it will probably be time very soon for that supervisory team to end up in the Central Bank. We're sure it's one process and that's probably how it's gonna be. If not today, then probably very soon. So I would pray, of course, that we are not authorized to declare the amendments, because I repeat, the formal motion of this law is the Presidency, but I would ask the MPs not to miss all together this opportunity to the Central Bank non-transfer this profit for the first time because surely we from the Central Bank won't be able to if the law isn't passed in spite of our best wishes, because we know in what situation our economy is, we won't be able to transfer without a legal basis. Thank you again for your patience and I thank you for the opportunity to address you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16008	I thank Governor Kozarić, on behalf of the College and on behalf of the House of Representatives, for the election of this very important function of the Governor of the Central Bank of BiH, and I want the Central Bank of BiH to remain such a respectable institution of the state of BiH. Two colleagues came forward for the word. I have here Adem Huskić, if it is a report, then Mr Momčilo Novaković has certainly signed up electronically and with his hand, I have seen it, here you go. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, Mr. Huskić has not applied.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16009	I'm sorry. I thought you called someone before me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16010	No, no, I said e-mailed in, so then he didn't sign up, he let me know, so you have the word, Mr. Novaković, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16011	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must say that the Central Bank is one of the institutions whose so far we seem to be reporting information and so on, so all the documents that have always come with a single dose of praise, supported and adopted. This time, I must say, it seems to me that the Central Bank has also strayed from some of its former principles, namely that here we have this, a sermon to see that they have also blended into a general environment. So they put the situation ahead of us like this, if you vote for this bill, you'll have 12 million, if you don't vote, you don't have 12 million. It comes to him as well as many times here that we have received various laws that are supported by either the OHR or some other institutions and, of course, conditioned by certain financial assistance. 28 Of course, according to what I have already said, we will accept the law as it was adopted on the commission. So we're not ready to support any amendments that things bring back to the beginning. We believe that such root changes as changes in supervisory areas require longer and more quality alignment at all levels and at the level of entities whose agencies should be shut down according to the first variant of this law. This is clearly about the transfer of jurisdiction, constitutional jurisdiction, therefore, from entity to BiH institutions that we are not prepared without the consent of the entity, I am talking about the Club of the Serbian Democratic Party. Namely, by discussing this, the National Assembly has reached one conclusion that practically enables a certain kind of merger of bank supervisory but on condition that the Banking Agency, therefore as a type of control, remains at the level of the entity as control of the banking sector. I must say that I am sorry that one attempt has been made here to bring our initiative to part of getting the Central Bank to be home to the budget being misused and through solving this issue has actually been brought up to resolve some other issues that I do not consider at this point, or I do not want to comment at this point whether they are justified or not. But in any case, in the adoption procedure, not all possibilities have been exhausted in order to achieve the agreement on the project proposed in the first version. So the Serbian Democratic Party Club will not support amendments that return the law to its beginning and will vote in favour of the law adopted by the Finance and Budget Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16012	I thank Mr. Novaković. Mr. Beriz Belkić, have Mrs. Sead Palavrić prepare.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16013	My colleagues and colleagues, therefore the position of the Party for BiH, or its club in this House, is entirely on the trail of what we have in the procedure as a proposal from the Presidency, therefore, as an authorised promoter. However, we were very surprised not to say astounded, when, through members of the Finance and Budget Commission from the RS, we were faced with a sharp change of attitude compared to the official proposal that came out, I repeat, from the BiH presidency. Of course, we have faced a real new situation and we have a clear relationship of strength at the moment and it is quite clear to us that practically from what Novaković was talking about, that this law in the set in its original state is in a position to formulate it by the Presidency is obviously not going to get support. We will, of course, try this, as far as possible to make our contribution to obtain today's agreement in the highest possible degree and on this matter, naturally proposing and calling on all MPs to reconsider their relationship to the possibility that the Central Bank as one organised and competent institution assumes such an important function. I can't help but comment a little, not a few things, not a little pomise with Mr. Novakovic, but maybe I should try and give you some information that will make things clearer. 29 There is no intention or imagination of cheating on anyone, as far as I understand things. Most of the initiative came from us, from our bodies, from our commission when it comes to profit. It's not a new idea, it's been going officially from the BiH presidency since 2001 at the time, etc. And when it comes to the function of supervision, as far as I've known it for a year and a half, that's what confiscations are about, you said it yourself by entities, the finance ministers are involved, etc. And what happened, why people changed their attitude, you'll have to see it inside the RS. So it's not about anyone's imagination of fraud, in whose imagination they're imagining skipping any kind of consultation, but it was simply once in the open procedure that this time, which I'm very pleased to have led the Presidency. And so it would be really good if we had heard as MPs today from those who have proposed this law, what has happened and what is the policy in informing between the MPs from the RS and the BiH presidency. So our position is next, we'll do everything we can to get a supervisory vision if possible, if we can agree here, and if we don't, we'll support what's possible here. We are fully accepted amendments by Mrs Palavrić, not the amendments Mrs Palavrić are actually solutions that were originally proposed in the text of the law. So, Mrs Palavrić is trying and proposing to this Prlament to update the original text if of course possible. And it would be good if we were to set ourselves up by the clubs. So, we as a club are absolutely on the line to support supervisory. Next, there's no talking about blackmailing these 12 million you'll get, you won't get, etc. I at least experience it that way, I'm not absolutely and don't really have any reason to believe it's blackmailing anyone. Everyone will vote for their conscience. So, the BiH Party will try to convince as many MPs as possible to support the Supervision, to support what Mrs Palavrić has suggested, if we are not willing to support what is possible by consensus here among us, but then to strengthen this conclusion, pay attention to the Commission's conclusion, that it is asked therefore of the presidency of Mr Novakovic, so 30 days of re-editing and supplementing the topic of supervisory... So, I repeat, in the framework of the report by the Commission that you support, the conclusion is the re-proposal of amendments and additions to the topic of supervisory work in Parliament by the Presidency. So there's no confusion later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16014	I thank Mr. Belkić. Mrs. Seada Palavrić answered the words, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16015	Thank you. I know it's already been said that we'll be able to have 40% of the Central Bank's net profit, actually 12 million in the budget, only on condition that this law is passed and announced and taken effect before 28 February this year. 30 However, banking supervisory at the Central Bank is one of the preconditions for a new stenbay arrangement with the International Monetary Fund, and I think we all know what that means. What is proposed in the law is that the current entity banking agencies are in fact only transformed into banking supervisory agencies of the Central Bank of BiH and established a main bank supervisory office at the BiH Central Bank. I think it's a solution that it's an important principle of this law and that we should respect it. Not only because of a stand-by arrangement with the IMF, the current entity banking agency when it takes care of banking supervisory and those leftovers have the right to block the country's citizens' accounts. They do it in a way that only someone sends them paper, without an orderly procedure, without at all whether it's in accordance with the law, whether it's an authorized body, and on the basis of such paper of that agency, actually the Central Bank is blocking someone's account. The one whose account has been blocked never gets any paper that his account has been blocked and the body that requested the blocking never initiates any procedure in which it could be proven that the account is blocked in accordance with the law, whether it has a basis for whether the facts are correct or not. In order to undo this, I went to another group of amendments because the bank account of each citizen falls under the right to property protected by Article 1 of the first Protocol of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The right to property must be protected. Every citizen must be given access to the court, the right to appeal, it removes my amendments. If we don't do that, we'll have an item in the old-age reserve budget that's mostly due to lawsuits that one of the authorities didn't do according to the law. We won't have just four million and 600, but we'll have tens of millions of marks to pay for the judgments of the Strasbourg Court. So, I call on you to bear in mind the fact that I have made amendments to which I challenge the amendment committees, so that I return supervisory to the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Central Bank. I have my own amendments that correct this text of Supervision, the banking supervisory which was offered by the Presidency in law and I don't expect that we can come to a solution today on this issue. I believe that if we work well and well-intentioned, we can have this law by February 28th and not miss the opportunity for these funds to go to the BiH budget, perhaps even bigger, but I would like to inform you that the Party of Democratic Action Club cannot accept this report from the Commission because the commission has not accepted a very relevant principle of law. I therefore propose that the report should not fail, or that something else would not happen, I suggest that we take advantage of the possibility set out in Article 95, and ask the Commission for an additional report within 15 days, that is again before the end of January, and that we have again this law in the first reading with a new report from the competent commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16016	Thank you, Mrs. Seada Palavrić. Who else wants to talk? Replica Mr Momčilo Novaković, after that, discussed Mrs Ljiljana Milićević. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16017	Well, since he's here with Mr. Belkić and Mrs. Palavrić, the same question has been mentioned to me, I have to explain it a little bit. In fact, I'm quite clear on what it says in the commission's report. I said I'd support the report. It literally implies that we don't dispute some kind of supervisory but agreed vision of a supervisory rather than the one proposed by this law. Therefore, it is the idea and our desire to bring this level of supervisory work into line within the next 30 days, and then we do not dispute the possibility of adopting such a law. What we will also not accept is that the report that the commission is making a new report. Namely, there are no new elements why the commission would be tasked with making a new report, unless some members of the commission were wrong, so now they would change their position on the commission in the new report. So there are no new elements for the new report and therefore we will be against the conclusion, if such a conclusion is proposed, that a new report be made, that is, to return this same and a new Commission report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16018	I thank you, Mrs Ljiljana Milićević, there's a word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16019	Thank you. Koelginice and colleagues, I will not repeat what Mr Belkić presented well, since he was present on the commission and we worked together on the solution on this report, I must add that Mrs Palavrić was also present as our finance minister as well as Mr Kozarić the Governor of the Central Bank and I must also say that the Commission is also working in a composition that was present fully aware of this problem and I do not want to repeat here and from all aspects and understand the seriousness of the problem and the importance of the law that we have before us. I must underline that there was finally a situation where he worked and a previous call, and then we launched the initiative, that BiH could finally get some of that at its disposal, which the Central Bank achieved, and then we were in a dilemma whether it was small or enough to start. So we had all the variations and we realized that the solution that this Parliament is leading to, doesn't close the door for us, and it's leading us to some better solution and consensus that we've achieved, I'm undermining unanimously on the committee, on that point. We said that supervisory doesn't get thrown out, doesn't throw away. We return to agree and get a proposal to amend and supplement, which means a harmonised proposal for amendments and additions. I think that's where we all showed good faith. The audience had amendments, withdrew their amendments, and realized that that's why they changed their minds, I don't want to comment. As far as this is concerned, we have to make it clear here that the Supervision is not conditioned at the level of the World Bank or by the IMF, not one of the reform tasks, it's a good will, the way that we, I'm undermining, I personally as someone who worked in banking, I want to arrange for the best possible find. And then it'll be good for those people who work in banking institutions and for service users, whether citizens, or permanent persons. And I'd like it to be arranged in a way that what's so far been clean and clear about the Central Bank means that it's done in a similar way. To be clear, clear, transparent and to know where we are. 32 Therefore, on behalf of, here I now ask on behalf of the House the consent of the report that we have been working on, which we have accepted part of the amendment that stands here, to support this report. There is no need for us to make a new report, there are no new moments, to observe a conclusion involving also a transcript of our session, meaning all the discussions, the remarks that have been made, all the amendments that have been made to the commission, to be sent to the promoter, to take all of this into account and to get within the envisaged deadline a new draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16020	Thank you, Mrs. Palavrić has a replica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16021	The replica shall be considered not to require new moments to apply Article 95(3). It is enough that the commission has not accepted a principle that weighs at least 70% of the law. So that's one thing. And the other thing, we who had the amendments didn't pull them back. We insisted on voting on them, it was voted rejected, and here they are now renewed.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16022	Thank you. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, may Miloš Jovanović be prepared, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16023	I thank the chairman. I'm really initiated by one of these, one statement that this is a good will, that it's no one's dictatorship, that it's not a condition for anything. I have to say that I'm impressed by this, that we finally have something that's not a dictatorship, but it's a dictatorship of economic facts and the fact that I want to remind you of, which we all have to bear in mind. Maybe someone a little less about this, take care or don't understand it, but I won't talk about the right aspects, but I want to talk about the economics, and I know that my colleague Ljiljana will understand me. Two are very important moments. I only want to remind myself of the special monetary arrangement of the Cainsi Board that BiH has since '97. i.e. with a single currency since '98 and during 2004, the total free reserves in the Central Bank of BiH amounted to about 150 million, i.e. here i think let me be corrected by Mr Korazić, i.e. his associates. So, for the first time, we have available free reserves that allow tomorrow, possibly within this special monetary arrangement, the Central Bank, or the BiH institution, and above all, the Central Bank performs the creditor function in extreme need, which is of particular importance not only for today's period but for the next period in the entire set of reforms that BiH is carrying out. What I want, in particular, to warn myself, is one moment of free reserves and the other is a factor relating to the issue of the revision of the banking supervisory system is actually at the state level, which is the best thing again in the Central Bank, which is initiated by a special increase in the minimum reserve rate in December, it seems to me 33 to 10% and what, unless there is a national-level supervisory, or by the Central Bank in due course, can also cause banking chaos in BiH. I want to warn you about that. I'm just saying that any negative consequences of that will affect both entities. Therefore, let no one think that he will be spared. So we have the fact that we have the first time or have the ability to have free reserves that will further open up to us to use the possibility of lenders in extreme need and secondly, we have the imperative of the last increase in the minimum reserve rate, which we have to take into account. I'm saying this out of the law. And secondly, regarding the law, a proposal has been made here to make a possible adjustment, which may be useful for one proposal. However, it should then be kept in mind that the same must be done with the draft budget, or a statement on the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16024	Thank you. Mr Miloš Jovanović has his word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16025	Here, I would like to take advantage of the presence of Mr. Governor of the Central Bank of BiH here and ask him how this issue was resolved, to say in other states. So, those countries we take as examples of good solutions, not just on this matter, but on all other issues. Here, in particular, means I'm personally interested in how it was handled in Germany. Whether this supervision should be at the Central Bank or maybe this one should be on some other level or other kind of organization, so I would really want this one, personally, so that we could sort of weigh in on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16026	Thank you. The governor needs to get an answer right away, so here's a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16027	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I give this answer, I want to make two comments. First of all, Ambassador Novaković wanted me to answer that it wasn't really a desire for me to blackmail or introduce anything to a small door. I said that the Central Bank would be the happiest to adopt the law as a whole and that we are prepared to organise and technical and humanely accept supervisory. So we didn't want to tie anything up, because the commission came out, here's the conclusion that it has made in, say, two steps to make it happen. And we of course, you're making laws, and if you vote like that, we'll respect that. So we didn't want to. And secondly, I would like to say to Mrs. Palavrić's statement that this is a condition of the stenbay arrangement is not a condition, but it is, we forget that the PRSP strategy was adopted by 34 of both of the government's netitudes, where the supervisory inside the Central Bank is foreseen. So it's not a deadline, which means it's a process that's likely to end up in the Central Bank. And the third thing, what the gentleman, the honourable MP asked me in the end, of course there are different models. For example, France, Germany and England have an independent agency at the state level to monitor the financial sector, the banking sector, insurance companies, microcredit organisations and everything else. 80% of the EU countries have within the Central Bank and all the countries of the ex-Yugoslavia have within the Central Bank. We as one developing country, meaning a small country, think that our capacities are quite enough to give a license from one place, to control the banking sector from one place, that doesn't mean that, we predicted that agencies in Banja Luka and Sarajevo could be somewhere else if we agreed, it's not controversial. So the auditor from Banja Luka could control the bank in Sarajevo, Sarajevo, Banja Luka, Mostar, Brcko, etc. I think we wanted a professional approach to approach the problem. We won't be unhappy, of course, if it happens now, I say again, don't miss the opportunity, there's nothing going on, but I mean, here I saw that the draft budget envisioned 12 million in some revenue side of BiH's budget. I think this is a good opportunity and I don't think you're going to miss it to accept this part of the Central Bank transfer. I'm not saying now that I'm not giving you back the way the alignment went. It is not in my mind, because the very fact that the Administrative Council unanimously decided on the proposal that the Presidency had unanimously made it. Of course, what you're saying is the conclusion of the RS Assembly, where they provide indicative support for the supervision within BiH, is not said in what way... precisely and yes, it can be interpreted as necessary, can be interpreted in some direction that the consent of entity parliaments is also needed, but we felt that the degree is sufficient, we are working on this project for a year and a half. It's not the first time, nor did we want to tie the profits to the supervisory industry. Because you know what it's like to change the law, how hard it is to come and go through all this procedure. That's why we wanted to take advantage of the opportunity to work it out together. If we don't solve it, life goes on and nothing on the ground special happens. The entity agencies are doing their job quite well and by almost the same principles, the same criteria so that we on the ground will have this, situation as we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16028	I thank Mr. Korazić. Who else wants to talk? If no one answers their word, I'm closing the argument. We're reminding you in the first reading. We need to make a statement about the law in the first reading, and I will certainly propose that we continue with the procedure, but before that there is a proposal by Mrs Sead Palavrić that needs to be made known to this House, which is that the report, to request a new report from the committee in charge. The House should declare this by voting and I put Mrs. Seada Palavrić's proposal to the vote. I invite you to prepare for the vote. And vote now. 15 for, 19 against, Mrs Palavrić's proposal does not have general parliamentary support, it has not passed. 35 Prepare to vote on the law in the first reading. Prepare to vote on the law in the first reading, prepare to vote. Vote now. With 27 votes in favour of, 5 votes against, 4 abstentions and a sufficient entity majority, this dom passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Central Bank Act in its first reading. I urge you to state whether you're up for today's debate and decision on the law in the second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 28 for, 5 against, 5 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, we entered another reading under this law. I am opening a debate on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Central Bank of BiH in the second reading. They're amendments. I remind you, we have here six amendments by Mrs. ruža Sopta defending these amendments, her amendments and in the plenary phase, 11 amendments by Mrs. Seada Palavrić, who repeats and defends at the plenary stage and we have amendments by Mrs. Seada Palavrić that challenge all amendments. Mr. Beriz Belkić did not submit amendments to this law, I apologize to him because I read wrongly in the opening part. Its amendments relate to the Law on, or budget. I'm opening a debate on the law in the second reading. Who wants to talk? If no one answers their word, I'll conclude the debate and we'll move on to a plea. You hoći to give me Mrs. ruža Sopta's amendments. I have a warning that there were some, and I haven't seen anyone sign up for the discussion and they didn't sign up, but if anyone wants to do it later, they can. Mrs. Sopta, you have a chance.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16029	As Mr Kozarić said, part of the amendment, or part of the amendments to the law, also refers to technical repairs, i.e. to agreeing to events to say so within the bank that needs to be legalised. That is how my first amendment applies to Article 4. A bill that regulates the establishment of the Central Bank. Since the audit function has already been introduced in the Central Bank, I am only seeking to correct Article 4. The Law amending the Law where I say that, in addition to the Governing Council, the point is that there is also a three-member review committee appointed by the Administrative Council and then followed by the Governance and the further organisation of the Bank. I think that amendment is acceptable, i.e. to improve this Article 4. Now, I don't know if I can explain the amendment by amendment or all the amendments one time. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16030	By the time the lady finishes, you'll get Mrs. Palavrić, business intervention, please. Here's the finish, the lady sat down, I realized she's done, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16031	I apologize to Mrs. Sopta. We can only talk about your amendments and my amendments on condition that these amendments that I dispute the amendments to the committees are accepted and that the supervisory review is restored to the law. So that's the order. If we accept that, then we can talk about our amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16032	Mrs. Sopta, here you have heard. I mean, this is logical to hear from Mrs. Palavrić because the amendments refer to that part of the text of the law that no longer exists. We can also go this way, to plead first on the amendment by Mrs Palavrić, if her amendments pass, then at least I think so, you will decide, the purpose of discussing your amendments but if you do not pass you will be able to, at least I think so, to withdraw your amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16033	I've just given Mr. Chairman a question... I guess I'll have the right to explain my amendments. I didn't claim to discuss mine first, so Mrs. Palavrić's amendments. It's a logical order to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16034	All right. It is logical and we will go, then we will go with Mrs. Palavric's amendments and first, in fact we will finish all of Mrs. Palavrić's amendments. Let those who are first in line, the amendments to which he defends himself or these amendments which, please, yes, of course. Please, please, so we're pleading on the amendments, so is there any, I'm asking again, so is there a debate? That's where we stopped. There's no argument. Now, let me do my job. I'm closing the debate. And of course, we're starting to make a statement about the amendments. First of all, I was thinking about the order of amendments and which amendments are attached to which amendments and so on. We are pleading on the amendments of Ms. Seada Palavrić, which challenges the amendments to the commissions. And Mrs. Palavrić has 12 amendments of that kind. Prepare to vote. We have to do this individually, Mr. Špirić, and let's get serious. Prepare to vote. We are voting on the amendment and Mrs. Seada Palavrić, which challenges the amendment and the Commission. 37 Prepare to vote. Vote now. 14 for, 17 against, the amendment did not receive general parliamentary support. We move on to the declaration under Amendment II. Prepare to vote on Amendment II. Vote now. 14 for, 17 against, Amendment ii did not receive general parliamentary support and passed it. We move on to the declaration under Amendment III. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 15 for, 17 against, this amendment also does not have general parliamentary support. We move on to a plea under Amendment IV. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 15 for, 17 against, there is no parliamentary support or amendment IV in general. On amendment V. Prepare to vote. Vote now. ...for, 17 against, and this amendment has no general parliamentary support either. Amendment VI, we are voting on Amendment VI. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 14 for, against 17, this amendment does not have general parliamentary support either. Amendment VII. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 15 for, 17 against, and this amendment has no parliamentary support either. Amendment VIII Prepare to vote. Vote now. 16 for, 17 against, and this amendment has no parliamentary support either. Amendment IX, we vote on Amendment IX. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 15 for, 16 against, and this amendment has not received parliamentary support either. Amendment X. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 16 for, 17 against, and this amendment has no parliamentary support either. Amendment XI. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 16za, 17 against, and this amendment does not have general parliamentary support either. And we move on to Amendment XII, that's the last amendment from this group of amendments. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 14 for, 17 against, and this anamdment has no parliamentary support either. I find that from this set of amendments, Mrs Palavrić, we have not adopted any amendments. Give me the second group of amendments to Mrs. Seada Palavrić. Please, are you giving up your second group of amendments? Please, so we have to make a statement if you don't give up. I can't, I have to put you to a vote if you don't give up, tell me what you're doing to know what I'm going to do. Mrs. Palavrić and Sopta, please prepare and plead on our amendments, do you remain with the remaining amendments? Yeah, I know. Mrs. Sopta, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16035	In this regard, I have explained this first amendment, although this article also calls for Chapter IX (a) which is now, by voting for this report, immaterially. But I'm staying with this part because I think I'm fixing the amendment, fixing the article, that is, the text of the law, and I couldn't bear it when I wrote amendments that the commission would leave out this chapter. I think, I'm texting that I'm proposing as a repair, not to disturb the situation and this part will be immaterial in the article itself. I'm not asking you to delete this article, I'm looking for a revision of this article. This is Amendment I.. I ostajati on the first, second and third amendments, I withdraw the fourth amendment for one particular reason I had the information and I know that the Central Bank manages the statistical 60 shares of BiH's membership role for international alignment in Basel but I heard that it was given, and I later heard that it was only given to the Central Bank's management and that the bank collects dividends on that basis but that it is not given ownership. It means that the BiH state still owns those shares. For that reason, I was proposing to enroll in the initial capital, that's the part I'm withdrawing. And I am withdrawing Article 6 because it is immaterial by adopting this report, and I remain, on the other hand, Amendment VI, I am sorry, Amendment VI, and I remain in the case of, first, second, third and fifth amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16036	Thank you, Mrs. Sopta. Mrs. Palavrić, how are your amendments? You're staying with all the amendments. 39 Please, we're moving on to a plea. Mrs. Ruža Sopta has remained code. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16037	I'm asking you, Chairman, to clear this matter to the end. Namely, those members to whom the amendments have now been tabled are not available. So there are no members of the law and there is no law now in that part of which these amendments apply. So it's impossible to vote on anything that's not there. We ended all the work by voting on amendments, those amendments by Mrs. Palavrić, this rest really doesn't make sense because we're going to be in a position to adopt something that's not in the proposal, and right now there's not.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16038	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16039	So, regardless of how I pleaded on the amendments, I really think that there is a need to interpret the Rules of Procedure first correctly and when there are no cases and that it is unambiguous to declare certain amendments or part of the law that is no longer available. Let us interpret such a constructive way the Rules of Procedure, both by the College and by colleagues who have tabled amendments. Don't just make me say, one gymnastics that has nothing to do with the legal understanding of the Rules of Procedure. I apologize to my colleagues for speaking like this, but simply they've expressed their position enough by proposing amendments, but let you understand the Rules of Procedure, keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16040	Thank you, Mr. Ćeman. Mr. Vinko Zorić, may I have your attention, Mr. Zorić, to the Council of Ministers, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16041	By reading the report and these amendments that my colleague Ruža Sopta has submitted here, I see that the excessive amendment v. samo maybe you should write Article 4 here because the report of Article 11 turns into Article 4. So Article 11 has remained the proposed law and he, we can declare ourselves about it and indeed these three amendments, this, there is no room for this, but there is room for this. Just so you know exactly which article you're thinking about. So 11 go law or 4 out of report, Amendment V. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16042	Thank you. So, colleagues and colleagues, things are next. Every MP, we all know what we just heard in the discussion of the gentleman, or at least we should know everyone, in Mr. Novaković's discussion and in Mr. Ćeman's discussion. We follow what is left of the law after the commission has submitted its report and we follow which members have been tabled which amendments and we see that there are no members to whom the amendments are being tabled in the law which is currently in front of us. And that's a perfectly clear thing. However, I, as chairman of the House or of the College, have no right to take away his right to remain with the amendment until the end, but of course, I have the right to vote and I will, of course, vote in accordance with what I should vote on. Now I ask again, we will, the College will therefore, the College has already set itself here. Here we have one situation with Mrs. ruža Sopta no amendment other than Amendment V applies to the current and existing text of the law. Does Mrs. Sopta still stay with her amendments as she just said I, II, III and V?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16043	If I had been at the moment of writing the amendments, I could have predicted that we would be disrupting the principles, I would probably have come up with the same amendment in a different way that would satisfy both the principles and the repairs of this article. I don't know, I'm not a lawyer, and as far as it's possible for it to stay within this and vote on them, if it can't, I'm powerless and if it can, I think it's important to fix in a part that isn't principle.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16044	Please, thank Mrs. Sopta. Mrs Palavrć, your amendment does not apply to any member who now exists in the law. Right? Except for the amendment preamble. Please, College, please follow me like this, except for Amendment I. Please, the College has taken the view that it is immaterial that this House declares any amendment relating to a member that is no longer in force in the current version of the law. This is the position of the College. And this way, please, please, there are two questions left to answer. It is an amendment to Mrs. Sopta and the amendment and Mrs. Palavrić, because they concern themselves, the first concerning the existing text, the second concerning the preamble. I invite you to vote on the amendment to Mrs. Ruža Sopta. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 16 for, 13 against, 9 Federations, 7 RS. I don't agree, of course, we can go to the second round of voting, it's no problem at all. Please, I'm interested, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16045	We're for 41.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16046	Okay, Nikola?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16047	Here, for
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16048	I'm against it. And we're going to the second round of voting. I call upon all those who are against, to vote. Get ready to vote. Vote now. So, nine from the Federation v, one from RS, no, there are no two-thirds so I realize that this amendment has passed. Just so we know what's been adopted. Therefore, Amendment V to Article 11. The bill changes and reads, the distribution of clean. Okay. We move to a statement on Mrs. Seada Palavrić's amendment, we are voting on Amendment I, on Amendment I and Mrs. Seada Palavrić's preamble. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 7 for, 20 against. I find that the amendment has not received general parliamentary support. All right, I'm passing a statement about please a little attention just. Let's move on to a statement on the text of the law itself. I call upon you, therefore, the text of the law has been entered into by Mrs. Ruže Sopta's amendment. I would only beg once more to be given that amendment to know people, once again to read. Amendment V, therefore, Article 11. The bill's proposal changes and then on the other hand it says this, article 27 of the Central Bank's pure profit distribution, to read only in the stenogram. If the Central Bank makes a net profit in any year, the net profit shall be allocated to the Governing Council by applying the following order of priorities, under a) Part of the net profit shall be allocated to the central bank’s general reserve, so that the amount of initial capital and the general reserve is equivalent to the amount of 5 per cent of the total amount of the monetary income, as defined in Article 31 of the Law, shown in the accounts of the Central Bank for the end of the financial year, b) the rest of the net profit shall be allocated to the BiH budget over a period of 4 months after the end of the financial year and under, c) The net unrealised profit shall be allocated to the account of the estimated value of the reserve held in the balance sheet of the Central Bank. 42 This is the text of the amendment. Right? Here, please, now we know what we're voting on. Prepare for the vote of law. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that with 32 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 4 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Central Bank of BiH. This implies that, please, under this, the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly adopted the Commission's conclusion. If someone thinks Dom hasn't adopted, I can put it to a vote, but I don't think there's any need, unless there's any objections. Please nice, I'm putting this committee to the vote, I hear some more reporting that should be put to the vote. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And I have observations here, I don't have a unanimous position at home, and I urge you to come forward with this conclusion of the commission that you have received... a proposal for the commission's conclusion from the report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 28 for, 3 against, 5 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, the House of Representatives has adopted the conclusion that the legislator is asked to, within 30 days, on the basis of a raised debate before the Commission and on the basis of all amendments submitted, make new amendments and additions to the laws to address the issue of bank supervisory issues. This is the conclusion of the House of Representatives. I thank you in this way we ended point six of the agenda. Moving to the 7th agenda, that's Ad.7. The proposal for the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2005, first reading by a respected colleague, you know that the College is in line with Article 106. The Rules of Procedure cut deadlines for considering the Budget Proposal. The committee in charge was held on January 10th. The same day, you were delivered through college with a report from the commission. As you have seen, the Commission adopted five amendments on the draft budget. In addition to the amendments, the commission adopted certain findings and conclusions, and proposed that the House adopt them. In the plenary phase, the amendment was submitted by Mrs. Sead Palavrić, five amendments, Mr. Zlatko Lgumdžija ten amendments, Mr. Milorad Živkovć, who also wants to defend again. These are all amendments that want to defend themselves again. Mr. Beriz Belkić, who challenges Amendment II of the Commission. I'm opening a budget debate in my first reading. Who wants to talk? Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16049	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, fellow Members and MPs, for my participation in the debate on the budget or the Budget of BiH institutions and international obligations in 2005 I will base more on issues and dilemmas related to certain offers and solutions and the concept of the budget itself, as well as on certain initiatives that are in a certain way a practical part of these dilemmas related to the concept offered in this proposal. Probably my exposure will be a little longer for that I'm asking the College if I step over, a little bit of time, that's what you let me do. So, I said I'd start my dilemmas with a question, and here I am asking it first. Does anyone in this country think about whether and when to amend the Law on the financing of BiH institutions in the part that regulates the relationship between the now-set ratios of the Federation of BiH, Republika Srpska and Brcko District, two-thirds, one-third and fixed. And I was offered by reading the 2nd regular number of Roman III, which speaks in favour of BiH institutions from the single account of the Administration of indirect taxation, and he, to remind me, is 251.5 million marks. And normally, it stands there as well as how that 252.5 million happened. However, in the same table, the total expenditures of BiH institutions are not full of 337 million. There is a difference of 85 million and a few million covered by non-taxable assets, i.e. non-tax revenues, fees, aids from the Sada, incomes from the CIPS Central Bank, which has already come into question as a project, which accounts for 25% of BiH's budget and is based on variable extremely uncertain sources of funding. If we have the assumption that we are standing on the same wire of strengthening the state and its institutions, then it is strange and incompatible that 25% of the budget rely on such fragile and insecure variable resources. If we start from the assumption that we are standing by to strengthen the state and state institutions, then there must be an assumption of an increase in expenditure in the state-level budget, which means that a new model of financing should also be established for entities in this country. And these are the criteria to be used in the distribution of funds from a single indirect tax account. And this further means that the current funding ratio must come under investigation and someone has to deal with it. It's like this one deeper approach to the principles of the concept of this budget. If we know that the total income of a particularly indirect tax is made from customs, tax, excise, traffic tax, etc. Then it is assumed that strengthening the state needs to target a higher percentage towards these sources rather than leaving it at all extremely questionable and variable sources. In particular, this issue is important because, objectively already this year, someone has to deal with the issue of part of the military financing, police, new institutions that are on the basis of BiH and social programmes at BiH level. These funds cannot be relied on, which means that this concept will not last or something will not be okay in the functioning of the state and the institutions of this state. 44 Secondly, I ask the question, I have not seen that in this budget, I do not see income and expenditure on institutions that do not have their own funding, such as museums, libraries or other cultural institutions, and you know that there have already been 3-4 questions in this House about funding the same in this country, that they are at close-up and that the question is being raised before this country as far as possible. That's probably what someone tried to do with article 6 to solve, but I doubt Article 6's solution because if you read Article 6 then you can see that it's all on a long stick and it all smells like that folk, drop the donkey while the grass is green. And you know there's a key in some institutions in the lock. Normally, there is also a question of Article 7 and Article 8. I wouldn't talk about them directly because I'm going to talk about it in another reading, but it's necessary for all three of these members to have a change or that they just don't show up in this. From this, especially from Article 8, I do not see whether the Fund for Returning is a budget fund and whether there is a financial plan for it and what is the financial plan. Which brings me to the conclusion that the principle of unity of the budget in which all income and expenditure must be contained, which means that it is obvious that Articles 6, 7 and 8 must be changed only in which direction, that is a matter of this Parliament and, normally, I will have in the second reading something to suggest. I would continue my part of the exposure with question number three, the Annex issue attached to the budget. In my opinion, Annex I and II are completely unnecessary. If Annex I were complete, it should have been predicted by me, as part of the expenditure on budget users. All of them are mixed here, and from this they come under the alleged signs of a hole, there is a claim that is only recorded, and it is better to have an estimated expenditure position within the framework of the budget users that will be realised from the single indirect tax account. The same case also occurs with Annex II, where revenue and expenditure should be provided for and included in the budget. This is how you lose every control you can't see from the document itself. Therefore, the funds from Annex II must be planned directly in the budget with revenue and expenditure or go to the establishment of the BiH Road Directorate, which would be under the patronage of this Parliament. As regards Annex III, it must contain reasons which are not available there, the allocation of resources from a single account with criteria, in the transitional period until the adoption of the VAT and after adoption of the VAT which will give the second picture. Otherwise, this is not how you see what the criteria are for the distribution of funds and many things that are hidden, under the alleged signs, are either undefined or unclear in this document. And finally, the fourth question, as my dilemma revolves around employees. The budget has shown by me, a picturesquely huge and disproportionate administration by institutions, which is worth good analysis and reform because this economy and this state can't stand it and it's worrying that over 70% of the budget goes to this one, I'm free to say an extremely inefficient administration, and it's even more worrying that through the budget it feels the trend of its growth. Furthermore, here is a special issue for certain institutions, here for two years, the parliamentary issues addressed to high personal incomes towards 45 job systematicisation and work tasks in certain institutions that are based on the budget. Interestingly, these questions are never answered by this Parliament and if the continuity of the review is taken, it can be seen that they are only loading on the back of their backs like this, I can say, the budget and what is worst is still being pushed along by Article 105, take or leave, which is worrying to me. I don't know who's worrying anymore, but that's right. This budget is extremely small or undetected developmental, also undetectablely little social and least reformal. These three characteristics of this budget, they're not exactly good and the big side of this document, which is why I point my finger at it. Normally, the commission had such a document in front of it, that it had not entered deeper into the concept of the document itself, but it had surfaced and done business in that sense, tried to merge where the threads were shot, on the surface itself, and I think that it could only be partially accepted as such, because especially if it is known that there are certain indeterminations in it itself, let's say, such as the formulations related to certain things in paragraph 3 etc. I can't explain to myself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16050	Thank you. Mr. Milorad Živković, have Mrs. Ahra Hadžiahmetović prepare.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16051	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I regret to say that we have again on the table of the Budget of BiH, which has come late, that we have knowingly violated the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of BiH, but I do not believe that this is the mistake of the BiH Parliament and the MP who is sitting here, is a mistake in the Council of Ministers and the Presidency of BiH, and I must say again that this budget has not come under the procedure that has been regulated by the Rules of Procedure. In fact, I'm curious if the minister is here or the chairman of the Council of Ministers to say whether this budget went through the Council of Ministers? I know the Bureau is proposing a budget, but I think it was approved by the Council of Ministers and sent it to the BiH Assembly before that, but I have no impression that it went through the Council of Ministers, especially when I see some items for some ministries. Let's say paragraph 12 for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is only slightly increased and everyone who attended the committee session is said and the Minister in resignation now, Mr Ivanić said this is insufficient for the ministry to work and that this item should increase much more. I therefore doubt that it went through the Council of Ministers, but that only one part of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, came to the Presidency and then appeared here with us. We of the SNSD believe that he is inconsistencies and does not maintain BiH's policy in the part where the opposition also agreed that BiH has no other direction but to join the EU. So in this reform part, and this shows, for example, concrete item 11 where it is unimaginable, embarrassing that the European Integration Directorate has reduced its budget this year. BiH, which wants to join the EU Directorate for European Integrations, which we have proposed to be the Ministry, is reducing the budget. We at SNSD can't support it for the simple reason we don't think it's reform. 46 Reserving an item for new investments, we also don't think it's enough, because we believe that in this year those institutions that are not formed will take much more money and that this is unrealistic planning and this is not reform budget planning. Although the budget, by its definition of budget or above all, is a political document that directs or channels cash flows, and we understand that there was no political consensus in this document, that the item for the census, which we insisted on being put in place in this year, and we have behind this and the List Act, is put in such a way that this political document does not fit us at this time. It doesn't suit us according to our definition of demilitarisation of BiH, and we see here an increase in the military budget at BiH level, and it is not possible for us to accept it. I would also ask the minister to explain to us whether it is possible to create an item that would only include the President of the Cabin. I believe that as much as I have information, that his cabinet is numbering many members, that a parallel Council of Ministers has been practically created and that the budget item is increasing every day. Is it possible in this budget or budget, which we are getting, that, especially as the Parliamentary Assembly is specifically put in place, the Presidency, should be put in particular by the Council of Ministers, so that we do not collect certain items such as the item for defence of the ministry, so that the item for this and ultimately we do not get the right result. I think the Council of Ministers would also be required as a special item to perform and to tell us how many numbers the Chamber of Ministers of Ministers has, unfortunately, I have information that we have a parallel cabinet of the Council of Ministers,... and we will also see after the Minister's explanation of this debate what we will do with the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16052	Thank you. Mrs. Ahra Hadžiahmetović, may Mr. Miloš Jovanović be prepared if he has applied? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16053	Thank you. I only have one brief question from which the answer will depend, of course, and a discussion in the course of the debate. I have a question for the secretary of vaults, finance and vaults. I assume that, in accordance with its usual way of working, the ministry issued an instruction to budget users to plan the funds or to deliver the planned funds of the necessary expenditure in 2005. In light of the fact that we have new state institutions, or new budget users, my question is this. Did all the budget users honor the Ministry of the Treasury's instructions and, if not, what does that mean? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16054	Thank you. Mr Miloš Jovanović. Let him prepare for now, I don't see any more reports. Sead Avdić, then 47
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16055	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, by conducting a little analysis of this budget, could indeed be concluded that, and it has been said very often that we are building a police spy state. And that's what I said for the reason that one third of the budget, so it goes for these budget users. Since it's still the current reform of the police force, if that were to happen, then you can imagine how much longer that would be. The other thing I want to point out, what I have specifically noticed, and this is about budget users' income schedules and a couple of illogicalities, I'm going to point them out here. And it is illogical in relation to the number of employees and the items on gross wages and fees. Here in particular, so the Institute for Standards last year had 25 employees, this year predicts, plans 47 and has a smaller budget meaning for this item, compensation plan, 796 000 and 340 marks. Next, the Election Commission also increases the number, plans to increase the number of employees by 2, has this item for salaries and compensations of less than 50,000. The foreign trade and economic relations ministry, with 103, plans to have 185 employees and a budget smaller to speak again for this same item by 46,000. Or what Mr. Živković said, the Directorate for European Integration. If somewhere I'm supposed to be, and I'm supposed to increase the number of employees, probably those people need something like this, do what we all stand for, means 51 planned in 2004 51 and 2005 and this budget is smaller by 112,000 and 175 marks. Also, the Ombdusmen's Office for Human Rights for 260, the D.O.A. has 12 employees, plans 20 and has a budget smaller somewhere by 13,000. On the other hand, we have budget users who are either at the same level as the number of employees or even a little bit more, and they have a big pay gap to say. Here we are, the Veterinary Office, 43-43 and it's planned to have more, 324 thousand. Or the Prosecution 48-48, 75,000 and what may be most drastic, the Court of BiH 86-86, 974 thousand and 329. A similar situation is with the Constitutional Court 66-72, and more than 791,000 487 and the High Court and Prosecutor's Council are planned. So these are some illogicalities where I'd love to if the minister could answer, so I'd like to know why that's how it's done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16056	Thank you. Mr. Sead Avdić, let Mr. Beriz Belkić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16057	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I would also like to make a few remarks about this text of the budget. For example, on the balance of income and expenditure, it would be good to put into account the reasons for which, for example, there was a fee for flights across BiH, when we know that neighbouring control centres control the sky over BiH or neighbouring countries plan 2 million 600, achieved this with 33 per cent, it would be good to say for what reasons. Then we have down there, particularly worrying about income for the realization of the CIPS project 25 percent, achieved in the past year, and here for the issue of personal documents 30 percent etc. This really is either a high degree of inability to plan in 2004 or a real ignorance or a simple irresponsibility in terms of planning the funds that were intended for 2004 and are simply found normal as the basis for planning in 2005. 48 From the point of view of expenditure, BiH must worry about the next fact that it will also pay for salaries and means gross wages and fees are growing this year and it is proposed 74%. Taking into account all and new ministries and new institutions, etc. you have a feeling that this really is an excessively simple increase in your personal income and cost compensation, i.e. for the lazy. And the second item, it also increases by 57 per cent, which is employee costs and travel costs 44 per cent. There is a feeling that this budget in part encourages the behaviours that we identified last year, and so when we discussed the 2003 and 2004 budget, the audit findings that we objectively did not have a sense of that lesson or simply tried to translate into this budget. For that reason, I only took one item to analyze. The item that is in my opinion is absolutely unnecessary in the budget of the BiH institution, an item that has been manipulated a lot, an item that serves simply as the common people say, that with its ahbabs and friends he throws a job at an institution that is good to me, etc. And as far as the item goes, it's like this, other special services are agreed. The title is real, simple and when it is implemented objectively warns each of us that the item is unnecessary, except perhaps only two institutions in BiH, which is the Intelligence Agency and SIPA, there may be needs for this article and no one else. And now this item grows from 50 to I don't know 130 percent, either. And when you take a little bit, you look at this material objectively and who doesn't need this item simply races enormously, because it's the directors, or the board of directors, who have an incoherent right simply to dispose of their means and to conclude jobs in their own way and so on. This means that I am not burdening you with how much this BiH Presidency is increasing. They increased no less than 58 per cent without saying this, transport, costs and the rest of what we saw in the BiH Institution's Budget Report last year. The Agency for Foreign Investment Promotion increases 77 per cent, from 123, and from 163 thousand to 283,000 contracted services and simply other fees. And also the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations really is here the irony must be observed. You simply have the possibility of developing domestic production and stimulation, believe it or not 40,000 marks, and the second item just below that, it says, expo 2500, I guess it's a de exhibition, it's funded with no less than 250 grand. I am really having an affair on this, on these logics and on this concern of domestic production and stimulation. You shouldn't have put this on either. Not even these 40,000. This is really embarrassing. This really, how can a man understand? Expo 250,000 and stimulation 40,000. So who could have approved a document like this? Who could have sent him to the MPs, not really, interesting. I suggest Mr. Chairman, three conclusions if possible? That the expenditure on transport and fuel services is kept at the level of consumption in 2004. We'll save 2 million marks right away. Under 2nd, the item agreed and other special services are completely eliminated for 2005, except for two institutions, OSCE and SIPE, we will save 10 million marks. And under the 3rd, special purpose programmes remain at the level of the planned funds as in 2004, save 2 million and 627 thousand, and thus slightly rationalise this budget for no less than 15 million marks. It's just so much to start with, and 49 simply this is just one item that I've been thinking about and analyzed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16058	Thank you. The word has Mr. Beriz Belkić, let Mr. Mirsad Ćeman be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16059	I'll try one different way... on this draft budget. Who has carefully followed the discussions and arguments so far, and who is still a member of the Finance and Budget Commission, will feel very uncomfortable before we are part of the procedure and Mr Avdić, and we have in some way proposed to this Parliament as the Commission for Finance and Budget to adopt this document in addition to these conclusions and proposals that we have made here. So we're carrying part of the guilt. Here we go, Mr. Avdić, and we'll never do it again. So I want to point out a few other aspects. And to me as a member of the commission, it was absolutely illogical that one Directorate for European Integration in the course of the commitment, etc. To Europe, to reduce it. It was absolutely unclear for the institutions to separate only a million marks of importance for BiH, it was absolutely unclear for me that dozens of items of any intervention I heard here could not be challenged. However, there is another side to the dimension. So we can discuss justice, or the ability to set priorities, and what's beyond that. The Finance and Budget Commission and this Parliament, unfortunately again, have not had any comparative data or orientations for 2004. The Finance and Budget Commission and this Parliament, there is no indication of the BiH Labour Programme in 2005, there is no reliable data on what will be established and in what capacity, there is no insight into the overall public spending, or overall public revenues in BiH, there is no insight into the reforms we are carrying out, what is being abolished, what is being reduced in relation to what we are establishing. So there are some things that shouldn't cause extra costs. But if you compare the entity budgets for 2005, and the state budget, you will see that nothing has changed. This country will simply go bankrupt. He'll just go bankrupt, he's about to go bankrupt. What happens in a situation where you are unable to cover your needs and when you are unable to achieve new incomes. Then you must behave yourself to the extent of your yorgan's debt. So it was very important, we were trying to get on the commission to get at these conclusions. It is very important to control cash flows and to have the principle of cost-effectiveness. Sometimes Mr. Avdić is worth investing, it pays to invest in these extraordinary services, contract services if they benefit. It's a problem that we don't know what it's like to benefit from any money invested. We don't know what the European Integration Directorate has done so far with the money we've invested. We have no cost-effectiveness principle. We don't know what the agencies we've invested in have made money in. We don't know if the IRS will justify the 50 million that were allocated to them here. Is she gonna make it? So these are principles. 50 Unfortunately, in the absence of all this information, pressed on the other side by the fact that we do not adopt this budget, so this time again if Mr. Novaković does not function the institutions. And for this reason, the commission has defined itself with these conclusions, of course, with the possibility of discussing the amendment action, to propose to this Parliament to adopt the budget of the institutions or to adopt the budget of BiH for 2005. Thank you very much. I apologize to the presidents of the commission, for taking myself for the right to a little on behalf of the commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16060	I thank Mr. Beriz Belkić. The word has Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, let Mr. Petar Kunić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16061	Very short. So, all of us, if we had come up with a budget, probably, in our own way, with more or less information, we would have put someone more or less supportive, justifiably,unjustified, and therefore I always find it quite justified that people intervene and offer their solutions to that. Sometimes I give it up because here, as Mr. Belkić said earlier, we are currently paraphrasing whether, where we are, we saw the Commission's position and therefore I won't be longer. I was about to prepare some of my amendments that I didn't make. I just want to look back at two, three points in principle. The first is the cost of renting in many, many budget users are at least inexplicable, at least with as much information as I have. I think there's always a need to figure out the possibility of reducing such expenditures and I'll only potential an egg, for example, when it comes to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, more like some initiative to this occasion. In the capital expenditure item, under 1 purchase of buildings, the building has nothing planned and at the same time I don't know how many millions here are given for rental costs etc. I think it would make sense in politics to say this, financing the costs of our diplomatic consular network, given that some embassies in the severance process have been obtained etc. Analyze really where it is worth renting embassy buildings and where you might raise credit in the countries of the domicillical, so you simply return it instead of paying rents etc. So, make your embassy etc. Simply, as a thought, and as far as other matters are concerned, many predecessors have said what I intended, but apparently we need to get to this budget as soon as possible and at least for the future, although we always point out, we should have gotten it far sooner, so that we, too, who want to intervene on it, and those who need to defend it, too, had more time for a quality debate. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16062	Thank you. Mr. Petar Kunić, may Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16063	Thank you, Chairman. I wanted to say some things that have already been said, and I'd like to say it again. Of course, that I would like to highlight the next question that was discriminatory on the 51st Constitutional Commission during the debate on another issue, not the budget, but that was said and the firm views were on it. Namely, what's in the question? It is the salaries of officials in BiH institutions. So there's a mess. There is one right to injustice, injustice because from a single instituation to an institution we have different salaries for the same jobs. The same tasks professionally prepares, skills, skills etc. But they're very different salaries. ... some institutions that have 6 thousand marks of salary, I would remind you that this Parliament did not accept the separatically to adopt the law I think of the judges' salaries precisely for the reason we said we would initiate the adoption of the law on salaries at the level of BiH institutions. I think it is primary and that this Parliament should launch an initiative with other bodies to pass such a law. In particular, Parliament needs to initiate this idea for the reason that the Parliament is constantly Paralment the salaries of MPs in public, and they are anywhere even twice less than for some officials in some I would say, I would not underestimate any institution, but peripheral institutions in relation to the BiH Parliament and its responsibility, etc. As Parliament, it is not only to pass a law that lays down laws, but it is also in this capacity to control the implementation of laws or to control the implementation of spending. And under the current circumstances, he is unable to control the spending of funds. So, is BiH able, the material opportunity to provide salaries to some officials who work in some institutions 6 thousand marks and 5,000 marks, when university professors or others, the more famous surgeons have far, far less salaries, etc. And people who work in institutions that are funded through budgets have such salaries. I think it's illegal, it's not just a question of the BH institution, it's a question of institutions and entities and others, etc. So you have a situation where the president, or the mayor of a municipality, has 4-5 thousand marks of salary and I don't know BH institutions have 2-3 thousand marks. So, this is one of the primary issues that this Parliament must be shown when adopting this budget, which is my initiative, namely the proposal to form a committee which would therefore be drawn up from both the Houses of Parliament and the Council of Ministers, from the judiciary of certain people and from some other institutions, to look at it as a whole and to approach the creation of one law on salaries at the level of BiH's institutions. Of course, that would avoid, have the opportunity to pass that law, what all states do, all countries do, we have one situation that's abnormal, if we don't have such a law on stage. Therefore, for us our club is acceptable, of course this budget will be accepted on condition that a conclusion is reached in that sense which would be substantially close in this direction that I said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16064	Thank you, Mr. Kunić. All I'd ask is that in writing I be delivered a proposal for a conclusion here while the debate is under way. We have that in the commission's report, and I'm sorry, there's no need, so here's the commission's report on it. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija has his word. I guess the minister will come forward afterwards, since none of the MPs have applied anymore. I would ask 52 club presidents to inform colleagues from their clubs to head towards this hall, to take their seats because we come very quickly to the situation to plead on the budget. Please take care of the MPs. Mr. Lagumdžija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16065	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, since this is only the first reading, or debate on principles, I will focus only on that and to the extent that I mention possibly something that looks like one of the amendments, it is only in the function of exploiting what is an explanation of the principles. First of all, I think it's very good that we're going to hear the minister and I'm not going to praise her again, and a woman may have a problem with me praising her, and here we are almost twice today. This second time I'm going to skip, but I think in every country in the world, the debate on the budget is a capital event in every parliament, every season in all even non-serious countries, that I'm not talking about serious countries. He who proposes by the constitution of the country comes to the pralament, the first comes the last to leave parliament. Following the Constitution of BiH, Article 5(3), under f), the draft budget is proposed by the BiH Presidency at the recommendation of the Council of Ministers, end of the BiH Constitution. It is perfectly clear to me that we can write to the Presidency in which the Bureau has authorized the Ministerial Office to represent them probably because it is quite logical that it represents them in technical matters, how this, from where this came from, and to answer some of the questions that have been answered here. But on some of the questions that are of other nature, it is always common that even before any of us says anything, that on behalf of the motionary head of state or at least who recommended him, which is the President of the Council of Ministers, he should make some remarks and tell us what it is. To tell us in advance to prevent some unnecessary maybe discussion, to tell us what are the restrictions they have, what is it that were the dilemmas they solved in the way they've solved. And then it would all be more acceptable together. I don't think this, when it comes to principles, this budget isn't reform, it's not developmental and it's not social. So he's none of what we've been talking about for the last two years in this House. This budget is contrary to some conclusions, and which we have had discussions about the audit reports that were ahead of us, is contrary to a adopted document such as the PRSP or the fight against poverty, or the Strategy against Poverty, which is opposed to some of the intensities arising from our commitment to speed up the processes that are part of the EU Stabilisation and Association Treaty, are contrary to some of these positions of this resolution budget since 08/09/09, which gives the moratorium at an increase in the various costs that are even very accurate here. It is contrary to the conclusions adopted by the Council of Ministers, which the High Representative gave us a public lecture in the paper, and we said we would take care of that, as far as relations with BiH's cultural institutions are concerned. This budget is contrary to the definitions for reducing public spending and this budget does not meet the requirements stemming from the continuing oath of valid furniture that the Corridor VC as a state project will be built faster, faster and faster. So these are all the reasons why this budget cannot be in this form acceptable. Also, it cannot be acceptable to receive new employees to the 53 BiH budget as much as possible now that the inflows of funds will go to a single state account, and then will be distributed to the state and then to lower levels, to entities and where not all, it is not acceptable that new people are employed in eating such a budget, and here it will count down to 8,400 and something, employed as many as this year's numbers, plans to increase to a pale of 10,000, 9,900 and something, so somewhere around 20%, the number of employees. In order not to immediately accuse me of being against the creation of state institutions, I am not against the creation of any institutions, nor am I to create social institutions if they are the duplication of institutions that already exist. But when we create state institutions, we have agreed, by creating state institutions, to cancel and multiply with the zero of a lower-level institution, especially their funding. When an example is being done, is it, I'm glad I heard from my colleague Jovanović, that he thought to me, thought SDS, HDZ, SDA and PDP were making a police spy state, I'm glad I heard it from him. Is that together, you're building a police spy state together in the sense that you're hiring new spies and new cops and spies and cops on other levels, and there's no obligation that these spies and cops from other levels will come into the state and become state spies and that the money they give on other levels will no longer be given there. It's one principle that's logical, it should be seen from your police spy budget projection. So I think it's something that's perfectly natural that we should basically take the appropriate attitudes about it. I would also like to ask a few questions, as the chairman announced to the minister that he would answer us. How is it that the EU's macro-economic assistance for next year's budget has dropped, and for the fall of that EU support item, I have realized that the EU is helping us more and more, and I see here from the budget that it is planned that they will help us 40% less than this year, I am sorry that they plan to help us 40% less than in the previous year in 2005. Well, that kind of, uh, I didn't know that, and I'd like to know, because then it'll probably, that answer might be an explanation of why your shoulders are sore in your shoulders that you're good, and they don't give you money for being good, because the EU has reduced its support here 40%. I would also like to be answered why has such a reduction occurred in the Directorate for European Integration? Is it because there is no money for Azra, or because we gave up on it, and I particularly think that we should answer the question, how is it that in the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, there was a 40% reduction, with a reduction in 2005 practically all went to a reduction in the programme, so support for refugees. It didn't reduce administrative costs, it reduced the fund that was for refugees 2.5 million now, now it's zero, and all administration remains. So, if we're going to cut back on the money for refugee returns, then it would be better to start by reducing the administration, leaving the money, the bravo actually even worse, increasing the administration, I think I'm glad that you, you'll probably vote as well as us from the opposition against this budget because this is all you've been saying, so clearly. Uh, I'd also like to be answered why this building isn't visible here next to us, this tall, gray-haired, why isn't it visible in the budget? Why can't it be seen in the 54 budget of buildings because it's known, I know it well and there's no need even here from the ministry, just before there was someone from the Foreign Ministry who traveled with me three years ago when we got 10 million euros from the Greek government to build this building here. Well, it would be good, so tell us the Grk didn't pay, but don't be so unserious. It is known that Greek money has been standing here for two years and that nothing is done, and now you can't see it in the budget. You can't see that money, you can't see our obligation to answer us. He would also pray in the end, that only in principle answers the question of why the funds concerning European integration are being reduced in principle, not only at the level of the Directorate for European Integration but also at the level of the project concerning Stabilisation and Association negotiations. And at the end of the note, offered to counterpart Belkić, who is always an inspiration to me, to say that since Mr Belkić admitted that the Finance Commission is responsible for one such proposal, because she unanimously accepted this, I would like, as my colleague Džaferović said in a magnetogram to say, to remain registered, I am a member of that commission, I do not consider myself responsible because I was not in that commission session because of my official absence but all my amendments were unanimously rejected on that commission. So the commission was working (?) and I agree with my colleague Belkić that the commission is responsible, co-responsible for such a shameful budget proposal and that it has indeed done a great job for the Council of Ministers, for the Presidency, because it has thus shared responsibility with people with whom there is no need to share responsibility, at least at this stage. And we'll talk about the amendments later. To subdue Mr. Chairman, I consider the draft budget at the level of non-ferrous, non-developmental, non-social, which is why I think it would be a good idea for us to put this all back and go from the beginning as serious people.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16066	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I no longer have registered debaters among fellow Members. I said I'd probably take the word of Mrs. Finance and the Treasury where I said she'd take it, because I think it's perfectly normal when it comes to the budget, but here's the minister saying it's probably really and really, she's looking for a word, I'm giving her my word. The word has a finance and vault minister, Mrs. Ljerka Marić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16067	Here we also have the BiH institutions' budget for the current year 2005 on the agenda. What has been discussed so far means, I will accept as it is said in the form of a question and I will try to answer in the end means but if there were, I would really go from having a text called – Basic Notes written in the middle of this material. Now, what these basic notes are in the middle of the material is whether, methodologically we can talk and in these basic notes, it's all on the basis of what it was made and how this budget was made, to the soul very briefly, and on the other side of those basic notes, I would just tell you what 55 I later saw was a problem, and that would be a sentence that said, in this way was made to level the wages in state institutions with salaries in entities. So this is a finding that can be understood very well and correctly, it is known that this budget has been made common to domestic forces with the really mathematical, technical assistance of the AMF in a way that, in the context of the consolidation of the two entities of the Brcko District and the state in the division of the state committee by the entities, that is, we have agreed together to make it an amount of 251.5 million from the single account, and in a new way, means for the country for 2005. Entities that had released the budget before the state had no technical problems due to adoption have, in the meantime, invested amendments and adapted the former, they call it a conservative method, why it's called "I don't really know", but it means how old the budget was calculated, they've invested the amendments, and they've adjusted their budgets to mean that this part of the state that's being prepared is directly rejected. So now we have consolidated that budget down by this part as much as the state, so it's about 900 million one entity, the other I don't even know Brcko. In the meantime, when this was done, we didn't know what was going to happen, since these laws went parallelly, the Single Account Act, the Regulation, the Transport Tax and Excise Act, etc. and we really wrote on the first page meaning, also by this called conservative method, that we will finance ourselves within the income of one, two-thirds of the Federation and a third of the RS and that means, in the meantime, the Commission of Parliament that was sitting has eliminated because it really means, since the deadline until the new year was still supposed to be over, so we now know that this is not like this and that there is a transfer that stands out first for that common account, a single account to the state, and this really doesn't exist anymore, although these ratios are very similar. So here's this confusion that existed just before the end of the year about how we're all going to make these budgets together. This budget of ours means it's working on a really profitable side and this gentleman of ours who spoke first was talking about why the state was not allowed to get 100% of its income from a single account. Entities say why the state would be allowed 251 million incomes because, as we say, we see the functioning of the institutions, the salaries of employees, and then we get to the salaries of the employees, the number of employees in which the entities have concluded together, Brcko kept quiet, that we have very high wages, and that our salaries, or our efforts to expand the institutions, the joint BiH institutions endangers the rest in a way that we equalise the salaries, so we know what the salaries in one entity in the other, to raise the salaries for both of these levels to the third, so it was unacceptable and this was maximum because our joint proposal by the Council of Ministers to the entities was the first of 479 million. And that was some amount that would, of course, be developed very individually within the framework of the European Partnership, in which we will be able to work out other than the activities and the development of the necessary financial resources by certain activities, which we must, of course, demand and gain additionally, because the current revenues of the budget are very rarely used for these things. So, there are still certain projects such as KARS which are not in this project and there is a question which the representative who last spoke, spoke about aid, the European Commission's macro-financial assistance. This is about the 2002 contract, the three tranches of macro-financial assistance, it's simply about 56 not reducing, not increasing in this item, but three tranches. First 7, second 10, third 14. This 14 didn't come last year, he's coming this year and that's it. As far as we're concerned, we've met the conditions, not mathematically speaking, that's it. So that's three tranches agreed, 40 limits of 20 loans to the euro state, the state and entities, a very clear plan, signed means a dispute, and there's no talk about what this item is. Dura strata and other necessary resources must, of course, come from some other sources. The question of even the number of institutions employed, you saw the same thing in this, in this descriptive part, behind it are several tables. And we've attached the tables this time. Of course, Mr. Belkić is right when he says that our executions must come shortly before. What we were doing exactly this year's budget was, the first budget line for 2004 was giving its limit. In the meantime, you know that we've applied those famous protocols that were later called annexes, in which in the middle of the year we've been given the Direct Taxation Authority, and in the meantime, intelligence services have also been financed through our account by the end of the year, but from the assets of the entities, and that the military has, in the meantime, received this, the General Generalštab and I don't know what else and that these needs have been expressed in this way. So, if we had to re-examine what these new users are who have very many employees, who have had lower salaries than what we've given, how we're going to fit that into this budget together. In the number of employees means this table number, I don't know now which, number 4, so we started, we started it somewhere in September immediately, we had a number that says down here 3,969 employees, and we really don't have this number of employees as of 2004. So we're going to throw out this information exactly and because we're prepared in the meantime for this, making a pay law in a way that we've done this technical -- the possibility that all wages are accounted for in one place, and that means that they have a list of users for the comparability of wages, for the purpose of being up-to-date, for the possibility of any movement, here's the technical part that's arranged, and now we need to make a law that will eventually cover it as such. In the meantime, all those employees about the rules, the pay regulations, we now have 3-4 regulations. One decision means the Council of Ministers on the salaries of these civil servants who enter it, the deputy and these ministers of advisors, and I don't know, the Ombudsman who received the amount of salary, the director, etc. A very important law that was passed over the year was the Law on Police Officers that was importantly arranged this bird, it was important and financially determined and arranged, because in 11 classes means the existing lowest salary of a police officer, there is a lot of financial sensitivity whether, and that then a lot of funding is ensured by that because we have very much, badges almost entire DGS is police and SIPA should have a thousand employees from the 1st month now. So a very large part of the funds are being drawn by those users. With the employment dynamics proposed here, we believe that we will achieve the execution as it says. So with 25% of the original incomes that are not direct tax revenues, we're going to get this third tranche as it says here. So at the end of 2005, we're going to have this number of nearly 10,000 employees. You know this well, here's how in the proposal here as it says, so by the number of existing ones, it refers to that 2,200 employees were in the IRS and that it should come out again, to our basic number that we found. Now we're literally getting new users together. The question of military employment 57 is not such a painful question, it's 100 and something I don't know, for now. The SIP issue is a very open and very financial difficult issue because last year's execution will be this in the plan, with six and a few million, so they're more than 25 million and that's a lot of funding. For all these reasons, it means how to put together a budget that is mostly financed by 75% and more from a single account, to include all these needs and a particular issue of European integration, employees in European integration and work in the context of this job. If only the Directorate for European Integration will implement BiH's integration into Europe, then it would be one simple question, we will hire there not know a little more people, they will solve it. So that's not how it's done. It is a directorate that works with all the users of the budget together within 16 of those tasks of the first ones we have completed. Most of it had a minister of justice, and then trade, and then I fell for the good part of all those laws there, so they, we coordinate, people keep in touch with the commission, we get our obligations, did we do it in time, didn't we? That's how it's really been done so far. Whether it is necessary to strengthen and employ more people in the context of existing budget users, ministries. I think so. The first coordinator who would really professionally coordinate with them and then, within the framework of these ministries, especially... finance related to future assistance, the financial assistance of Europe in Bosnia and Herzegovina, should be extended. So, not European integration, the Directorate increases rather than other users, so that they can accept the tasks they need to do and not the Directorate of European Integration. That was my answer. As far as I'm concerned, I wouldn't have meant anything more to you than tied up, so I introduced you, the employment, we talked about the funds that we're going to get in principle. Then what happened in the end about this sentence that I started out with because the wages were even? When the funds were distributed, then we came to the conclusion by talking to each other when we made a full budget, to praise about 17 million with these written revenues as they stand. And at the end of all the debates, we have concluded that we need to make a reduction in wages linearly of 10% not compensation, not some other receipts, in order to make those 17 million that are lagging at us and to finally begin to agree with the rest of the state. Still entities in their heads in their way of working etc. have with them the presence that they finance the state. It's a new account, it's new everything, but there are still transfers, real absolutely it comes from where we all live but so this is the first year of this way. And how much so far we can say about the budget filling, although we can't spend money because we don't have a budget. The account, this unique one has worked out it will be if Bog gives it better and better, it means it's going to be quoted and it's going to be solved. But what would be some kind of problem about... why the Secretary General is here, why there's no chair office, why I don't know everything about it now. We always use the laws that are in force, so the users, their names starting now in turn, the Parliamentary Assembly, so these ministries as they are called, we have written them out of the applicable laws. Well, there's a law that lets... the ministry don't know what to say, so this ministry, that ministry, so we copy it. Well, then there's not a really specially built office of the chairman there, but it's said, the Council of Ministers... the chairman and then the concept is possible and the next. As some governments do, in order to do so, 58 ministers within the Council of Ministers with the Secretary-General, the Bureau of Chairmans withdraws to one item, so that all of them are as they are in one item, I don't know how many ministers and others as well as to keep the ministries items. That model was also applied. I never really liked that model either. So I've been doing calculations in my life and I didn't really like that model. We left the principle that the Council of Ministers that first ministers then they may have some accompanying services. So we didn't opt for it, we left the ministers with the ministries because some governments work differently and the General Secretariat includes the meaning of the Office of Law, the Office of Administrative, the Service now need to find the real name and the Office of the Chairman. The chairman's office operates on the principle that all other administrations of the ministry and everything else operate, according to the rules adopted. So, the Internal Regulation -- really, the rules, the systematization, the number of employees that all of these are planning are a lot more employees and they're writing and those regulations and then they don't agree with us when we say, are the rules adopted in the 300 people rulebook, but we have to be realistic, so we have to sort of narrow it down to some possible measure. And that possible measure has been applied here. It means possible measures. You can see there's no third-licence funds in this budget. Those funds that I, the concessions, are that of the third operator, means this is past this budget specifically left for the making of the study and for financing specifically in the entities of these infrastructure projects, etc. So these are very small funds that we mean, as such we left complete for development programs and we haven't spent a single mark for the specific ongoing needs of budget expenditure operations. As for some others, here I tried to write all these questions and I think I answered most of them, this Institute of Standards, and I don't know, something last year was an institute. We, within these 16 tasks, have passed three laws on three institutes, broken down these institutes, each given its position and had to work urgently, work a little better for us...this function, what they took over, and that is, because on the income side of these institutes we expect also revenues for issuing licences, for issuing, so they have a function both on the income and on the expenditure side. I don't really know what it was, those contract services, the contracted services. Definitely means several types of separation. That's what we pay the team for, whatever it means. So those books, when someone comes to us, you know what they are. So from the restaurant, from those books, from those presents, etc. In that item, they put meanings and information, buying newspapers, printing, that kind of service. The occasional temporary jobs in which translations are included, because I have very often the need in the ministry to translate from the English this, the World Bank very much material... in our language to make it public in our languages so there goes a lot of money. That's what's in that item. So, definitely in that item are listed these, this as I say, and if we can without it, I don't mind, really. So here's what this is about. But I don't think that's wise, and I think that here we are, means the final draft of the budget in this amount of 581 million, which consists of 336.7 million administrative parts, and where 44 million needed to service the external debt, we propose to this Parliament, means in the way that this is already proposed by some procedure that should not be controversial, with the observations and suggestions that indeed, which the Administrative Commission has given us, because 10 of the technical failures that have been made, because this is nevertheless large material, that Parliament 59 adopts this and that we begin to mean finally a year with a little delay but that we start by law and by this budget. If I left anything out, I'm ready to respond at any time. So we did an instruction on budgeting on time in the 10th month, really according to the new law on time. Most of the users sent their demands. Yeah, there really was a couple of users who sent it over a new year ago. There were few wrong addresses, mostly we eventually respected them because they were founded last year, they didn't work at all, so they showed up to fit into the budget in the meantime. But basically users, all users always plan to do it one 30-40% more in case it shrinks. And it really isn't, so how many people are, and practice now we all work together, it's sometimes going to be aware of these measures that will be the right measures, and in particular it's going to be necessary for all the users of the budget, then there's the Parlement, to assess our strengths, the necessary means for future activities related to the European Partnership. So all the activities listed and how much it really costs, no matter what it's not in the current budget expenditures shown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16068	Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović is asking for a word. And he has the word Mr. Miloš Jovanović, asking for a word and he has a word. And that's what I've got so far reported, so let's get going to the hearing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16069	I thank the chairman. I didn't accidentally ask that question at first. I would like to remind and inform this Parliament that the Ministry of Treasury has indeed acted in accordance with its obligations, which is not surprising to me, knowing both the conscientious work and the management of the Ministry, especially the team that is working on the budget as it has been in the past. I also know that the instructions issued by the Ministry of Treasury, among others, made a commitment to budget users to plan funds in accordance with the systematisation of jobs, adopted rules, etc. I just want to mention that it didn't happen to all the institutions and that the draft budget, I expected the Treasury Minister to say it here publicly, if nothing else to take down responsibility from himself, or the Treasury Ministry for what can be done in the coming period, given the obligation under the Law on the financing of institutions. Secondly, on the basis of previous discussions by members of the House of Representatives, I appreciate that it is particularly important, given the political moment in which Bosnia and Herzegovina is located and the inability to make a decision on the temporary financing of state institutions, where it is very important that we all know the consequences of not adopting the budget, regardless of the relationship. I think it might be useful to think about everything on this subject and that possible inability to make any changes, corrections, etc. Let's leave for another time.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16070	I thank Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. Mr Miloš Jovanović picked up the phone. Here you go. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16071	Well, I really didn't get an answer to any questions and it's really asking if there's any point in voting for a budget like this. Then I'd really like to say that I've stepped on everything I've been saying.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16072	I thank Mr. Jovanović. Who wants to talk any further? I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, once again I call upon the representatives of the clubs to inform the MPs to enter the O.R. We should now declare the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and international obligations for 2005 in the first reading. I urge everyone to prepare for the vote. ________(?) That's what we'll do when we're in second reading. I'll Stavić your motions to the vote. That'll be put in. So they'll be put in. We'll go to another reading and then we'll have amendments, and then we'll have conclusions. Everything has its turn. Don't get anything. All that's said today will be answered here, which is addressed to me as chairman. Trust me. I call on you to make your statement on the proposal for the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget and international commitments for 2005 in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives with a majority of 28 votes, 5 against and 2 abstentions, has adopted Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions' draft budget and international commitments for 2005 in the first reading. I suggest that the House of Representatives move to another reading today and I suggest you make your point. Prepare to make a statement about whether the Dom is going to another reading today. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives with 27 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 5 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, decided today to discuss Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and international obligations for 2005 in a second reading. 61 Dear ladies and gentlemen, I open the debate in the second reading. For the introduction, I would like to say that this is a debate on the concrete amendments they have submitted: - Mrs. Sead Palavrić 5 amendments she wants to defend again, Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija 10 amendments she wants to defend again, Mr. Milorad Živković 1 amendment which also wants to defend Mr. Beriz Belkić, he has submitted an amendment to the Commission's amendment. These four, three types of amendments, Mrs Palavrić, Mr Lagumdžija, Mr Lagumdžija and Živković, were renewed amendments, unlike Mr Beriz Belkić, who in fact disputed an amendment adopted by the Commission with his amendment. This should, of course, be the subject of discussion. There will certainly be statements and the proposal for a conclusion by Mr Kunić. Mr. Kunić suggested, we already have it here, the Secretary of the House told me that he had it in the commission's report, the text of the proposal for a conclusion. The Commission has already referred to the adoption of a law at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to salaries in all institutions, and this will be the subject of a statement and I would like to inform Mr Sead Avdić that he has made three proposals today in the debate that are essentially an amendment, and that amendments during the debate cannot, of course, be submitted because it is known when the deadline for amendments expires. So much for the introduction, and I'm opening a second reading debate right now. Please sign in and discuss. Mr. Beriz Belkić, Mr. Milorad Živković, afterwards Mrs. Sead Palavrić, followed by Mr. Zlatko Lagudmžija, etc. etc. I read you all, I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16074	To give an additional explanation to my one amendment. I was on the Commission against the amendments I'm contesting right now. I gave a brief explanation here, but I would like to stress that by understanding Mr. Novaković's intentions to try to fix some, some wage discrepancies, etc. I think it is unprincipled on one budget user, because the two amendments were also rejected on the Commission and I think it was about the SIPI and another budget user that it was not correct and to say in principle to one budgetary user to correct possibly some of the things that we can do only by system wage law. Namely, Mr. Novaković, let me finish, be patient. It's about what it's about. Each budgetary user, as far as I am aware of at this time of the funds, or the mass of the funds for personal income, shall provide on the basis of two documents, i.e. the Internal Organisation and Systematisation Regulation, which must be adopted in a regulated manner and the documents governing personal incomes. Whether it's a decision, whether it's the law going from case to case. So we weren't in a position to challenge these figures that were thus in my opinion and created. 62 So, I don't think this Parliament should support it in this way to move on to that conclusion on the harmonisation of salaries over the back to say so by one budget user, a team before we move towards transferring those funds to the benefit of Parliament. I don't think this House should be provided in such a way as to provide additional resources. It is about my amendment and I want to take advantage of the opportunity, I will no longer report, I am very interested in amendments Mrs Palavrić and Mr Lagudmžija, so first I would like to ask Mr Lagumdžija to explain to me, we absolutely support his intentions to step up efforts for European integration, to corridor etc. But when I've added plus, a mine, a dispensary, the income side praises me for all 90, 100 million almost, but here I believe that the motionary will clarify in what way, but it's very important for me to hear the finance minister as well. I also am in favour of Mrs Palavrić's amendments to agriculture, and DGS. I'm willing to even expand, we heard here, we just need to hear if it's real and whether it's expected these 14 million that excises, i.e. the Direct Taxation Authority, if Parliament writes in an explanation, if most in Parliament ensure that the administration starts, or VAT starts to apply 1.9. I thought it was governed by the law of 1.7. I mean, these are all some assumptions that make it impossible for me to determine these amendments, so I would ask the proposings to specify and guarantee us these sources of funding on which these expenditures are based, the increase in these expenditures they propose. Here's so much for me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16075	I thank my colleague, Belkić. Dr. Živković picked up the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16076	Dear, the amendment that you have in front of you in an explanation basically confirms what we talked about and what we adopted last year in this House, concerns the Ottawa Resolution and this increase in the item by 25 thousand marks only symbolically lets us know that we are responsible people who respect international documents and those who think we should work in that direction. I'm not going to say how much in the document we've adopted says the percentage we should single out, but here I'm willing to compromise, and as you can see the amendment is within the budget, so it doesn't go beyond the budget, just redistributing certain items, and if the Minister has an idea and a way to leave this 25 thousand-mark item from the budget reserves, I would have enough and oral, oral promise. I'd give up this amendment of mine if I didn't put him to the vote. In case this can't be inserted, then I'll put the amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16077	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Mr. Novaković picked up the phone. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16078	Mr. Chairman, first of all, I have to say that I am amazed by one group of amendments here, and therefore I think that the proposings of these amendments question the adoption of the second-reading budget in today's session. In fact, a group of amendments that mean changing the agreed, agreed allocations of funds between institutions, that is, the budget that we adopt here and the entity budgets are absolutely unacceptable to us. In this regard, we note that, namely, the Republika Srpska budget was adopted on the basis of revenues agreed between the finance ministry at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the finance ministry at the level of entities and cantons. If we take that into account, then the amendment of Mrs Palavrić, in particular Amendment I, and others attached to this amendment and are unacceptable to us and if, of course, this is our position, and not any threat or warning, if there is a change in this balance we will be against the budget. Let's get this straight at the beginning. As far as Mr Belkić's amendments are concerned, I must say that I was the amendment that the Commission accepted, which Mr Belkić disputed with one intention, which is already several times here at the House mentioned high salaries and fees for employees of the CRA, i.e. in this communications agency, and I thought that these funds should in this sense mean in some way getting closer, if not, and it is certain that they are also not equating with other budget users, and they are still far above the funds of other budget users, but at least to get closer. Which is why I suggested it was going to the Parlamentary Assembly. I didn't mean to split that money into salaries, and we took from someone else's salaries, but I thought it was necessary that, in addition to the equipment that we're working with here, not now in this room, but in general the clubs, and if you want MPs, so if you want the conditions where we work in the building don't work elevators, where, we heard what our building looks like around, etc. I felt that these 3 million and something would help us solve some issues, not to cause some kind of imbalance, or some big price difference, or pay, that is, to bring them closer. Of course I remain with this proposal and I will vote in this regard against Mr Belkić's amendment and I must say that regardless of the fate of this amendment, they will not define my position on the budget vote. So no matter how we vote on that amendment. As for the other amendments, therefore, and Mr Lagudmžija's amendments, we are not ready to support these amendments before we feel that voting means against the budget really does not make sense then to invest the amendments. It's not principled to make amendments if you vote against some law. So it's something that is unacceptable to us, and in this sense we don't see why whoever votes against a law in the first reading is investing further amendments and will again vote the adopted ones or not adopted against that law. So, for these reasons, we will not support this group of amendments and as far as Mr. Živković's amendments are concerned, he is acceptable to us, because we do not think it is a significant amount, and in some ways he wants to raise one particular question a little bit and give him a 64 more serious note, although I say, whether or not we vote on this amendment again or not, our position on the budget vote will not be changed, so whether this amendment is adopted or not. So, we will simply support the budget, of course, if it can be in the part in which the Commission proposed it, and if not, if there is no balance change between the funds provided for entities and common institutions, or for this nav budget, we will support it if we do not support the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16079	Mrs. Seada Palavrić, then Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija will prepare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16080	Thank you very much. Before I explain my amendments, let me refer to something the minister said and what is already in the Budget Proposal. Namely, it says here that this budget has made pay equal. The minister explained that this should be interpreted as a way of bringing the entities into line. I think what I'm about to say is more important than my amendments. The state of Bosnia and Herzegovina is neither the daughter nor the stepdaughter of the entity, and they cannot determine Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget under the constitution. To support that, I invite you to read Article 4. The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina 4.4.c) reads -- the Parliamentary Assembly is responsible for approving the budget for the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So we are competent to approve the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina and 4.4.b -- the Parliamentary Assembly is responsible for deciding on sources and the amount of funds for the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and for the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, I ask you, at the beginning, that we do not trample the provisions of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that we do not allow that now and even where Bosnia and Herzegovina has undeniable powers, we say that it also depends on entities. Please don't do this. When it comes to my amendments that are completely correspondence with this constitutional provision, they're 5, and they're related to three things. One that the Parliamentary Assembly, in accordance with its constitutional powers, can increase the revenue side and I propose to increase it by 14 million. I believe that by training the Indirect Taxation Authority, which requires 10 million for equipment and 4 million more for the people, when we train it and introduce the VAT, we can pick up not only these 14 million we miss, but far more. It's kind of a problem that goes through a few of these amendments, because that's how the budget was done. Another problem is that the funds for salaries and compensations in the DGS are reduced compared to 2004, and besides the Directorate for indirect taxation, I consider the next factor that will provide us with tax collection and reduce the grey economy and ensure the fight against everything we have to fight. So my amendment is to keep these DGS funds at 2004 level. 65 And that since we already have these 12 million from the Central Bank, and we said that we wanted to use them to stimulate direct production to secure at least 2 million for that production. And I found these funds in the reservation redistribution that were made where we have reservations for old obligations compared to last year when we had 400,000 marks, now 4 million 642,000 marks, etc. etc. I suggested that those old-age liabilities stay at the same level, as they were last year, so 400,000, that we take out the 4 million and 600 million and 161,000 as long as we need to do the DGS, and that we introduce a new item of reservation for the incentive of agricultural producers with 2 million 80,000 931 marks. I know that what was also on the Commission will repeat, because my amendments have been rejected, it will be explained that agriculture is not in the jurisdiction of the state. I know it's not agriculture in the jurisdiction of the state, unfortunately, but I think that as parliamentarians elected by both these farmers and these direct agricultural producers, we have no right to be deaf about the fact that entities didn't encourage agricultural production at all, that now something like little repairs and standing in place. I think that these funds can be spent, or the way I suggested a special fund at the state level, or in some other way, it's quite irrelevant, but it's important that someone finally starts to worry about why milk is spilled, why domestic products are uncompetitive, because we have no other measures. We cannot discriminate against import goods, but we can encourage domestic production through subsidies. So that's the essence of all my five amendments to these three key things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16081	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. I don't have any more reports. Yeah, good, good. Just to sort things out slowly, don't worry.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16082	Oh, come on. Better replicas, I don't want to interfere.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16083	It's not better than giving replicas to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, replica. Who's got the replica yet?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16084	I've asked my colleagues several times to listen to each other. I did not dispute the right of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to bring the budget. It's just a matter of work. You know, for the fifth time, I take part in the adoption of the budget in the Parliamentary Assembly, if what we have done so far could be called participation in budgeting, since we have done this most often in March of the month by acclaiming. What I've said and I'm sorry to say, gentlemen, we won't be able to avoid it, no matter how many, it's the fact that legal regulations define the obligation to distribute this portion of income in agreement. And that's how it is, whether we like it or not. And that's how it's done. I didn't say anything else but that the 66 things we've done are respected, or I will respect and my club will respect, and if it isn't respected, then we won't support the budget. So I haven't challenged anyone's right to disrespect it, but of course with full responsibility then we should count here whether we have enough for this budget or not. Nothing else. I'm asking you to look at it that way the way I said it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16085	Thank you. The word is Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Let Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović be prepared. And it's a list of the reported, and that way it would be exhausted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16086	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I am here, as has already been said, and you in some of your notes have concluded that I have 10 amendments that I am here now in the function of counsel and immediately at the beginning I want to give up one that has shown good will and reason. Namely, the first amendment I saw after the intervention of Beriz Belkić was accepted in a certain way so that since the first amendment I give up immediately. And that's the end of my giving up for today. The second amendment can be treated complementaryly with Amendment X to understand the whole problem. In fact, the amendment applies to one principle that we have adopted several times and which this parliamentary assembly in different forms had before it and has always made a positive statement about it, which is that when creating new institutions at the state level in new employment, people should be guided to make sure that at other levels where these functions are done with their funding, because we practically have duplication and people and functions and finances. The amendment so II and X mean that tomorrow when these spy examples work, we put them at the state level that an adequate number of low-level spies stop funding. No, that doesn't mean firing them, because it means either redeploying them to other jobs, or redistributing them to state spies, and in any case they'll go on self-financing and you probably know how to self-finance these spies, I wouldn't go on about other parties' experiences getting into it. So this amendment I and X, I think, is going to come across your understanding because it's actually just a formulation of what we've repeatedly concluded. The third amendment refers to the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency and says the amount for the presidency is 6 million and 49,000 and some marks change into 4 million and 49,000 and so much of that mark. The reason for this is, above all, the conclusion of this same parliament on the Rebalancing and Audit Report of the Presidency. Since the presidency was visible last year not only did we have to cover them after the audit, that is, you and most of them covered them so people wouldn't answer for it, but then they were told – never again. Now the team is instead of never again practically increased the amount in this year by even more. I am merely proposing this amendment to send a clear message to the Presidency that the Parliamentary Assembly 67 has concluded is once to think seriously, i.e. that people are domestically related to the means they were given. In any case, these funds will leave room for some new purposes, which we will ultimately talk about to the relevant respected counterpart Belkić. The fourth amendment goes towards that, just to remind you, that last year's budget saw an item that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement would be financed by 250,000 marks, and this year in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement we will not finance at all. And what it says is that we're going to finance the start of Stabilisation and Association negotiations this year with 150 grand, and last year we didn't because last year we didn't think we needed a start to stabilize immediately. Now what's done is done. It has now turned out that we want to finance the start of Stabilisation and Association negotiations which I support, but it is also necessary to open a parallel process for the Stabilisation and Association Agreement itself, in line with the conclusions that we have had, and that is why the proposal that this item is in principle, instead of 150 000 is 250 thousand, so we should continue with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. That is my proposal, so that this continuation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is in the budget, because otherwise we act as non-serious people. The Fifth Amendment speaks of this PRSP project. Last year, we had 465 000 separate for PRSP and the project ended as it ended. Parliament has adopted the appropriate conclusions. The other day, we've been getting materials on how it works, making conclusions, and stuff like that. Now, we've adopted last year whether they have a PRSP budget, so the development strategy has been financed by 465 grand, and this year we're funding from zero thousand to conclude that we weren't actually serious about PRSP, because then we were told and then air-conditioned because the man thinks I'm serious. I, perhaps not, he nods his head without the minister's approval. Of course. Okay. Man, expert climate without the minister's approval. All right, I admit it. That's what I get. I apologize to the expert for looking at him, because what kind of expert can nod his head and have a problem. Okay. So, we heard last time and last time, the last time we were reported to us about it until we got there, and before last time we were told where we were going. Then we are told that one mechanism, one body, is going to be formed, something that is conditionally said by an institution or some department, or some people will be able to follow practically how it goes, how the development strategy is realised, that is, the strategy against poverty. Unfortunately, I can see from this budget now that it has given up. That's why I'm just suggesting here on the amendment that the 465 grand we've given to make and we're just reminding you that that 465 grand was only part of the money, because the world's largest money was given to the World Bank. So, for 200 thousand marks, we set aside a mechanism for the appropriate institution to monitor the strategy and give to all of us and to Parliament and the Council of Ministers and other recommendations as far as they have arrived, what is done etc. The Sixth Amendment speaks of the possibility of developing domestic production and stimulation. A colleague, Avdić, who has now come out, spoke on the subject, but since Džaferović said with his credentials that Avdić had not submitted the amendments, here is an opportunity to make this amendment, what his colleague Avdić is doing. Namely, what I mean. Here's an item of 40,000 he compared to that 500 grand exhibit, so for the 500 grand exhibit, and he needs that exhibition, 250 at the exhibition, so I'm sorry, great. 250, yes, I did, because I suggested that it be 240 for production, because I didn't want to disrupt that exhibition for you. Since you proposed 250 grand for the exhibition, I thought it was an important exhibition for you and then you wouldn't want this stimulation to compete with the exhibition and the suggestion is to be more symbolic, since this is certainly symbolic. Please. And you're giving up, if there's just some extra money to support this little pathetic domestic production that you're certainly killing with the Excise Act, and we'll talk about it later. Seventh Amadnman. About him, the minister gave me some answers in a certain way. The seventh amendment says that on page 12 in Table 18 in section three when it comes to Corridor Vc, Corridor Vc is in our entire budget with an amount of 100,000 marks. That's about the quality of one rural road, you can't set up for that money, and that says we'll provide consulting services related to Corridor Vc and it's offered 100,000 marks. The amendment goes towards replacing these 100,000 marks with the word 90 million marks. Why 90 million marks. And first, because in that argument at the end of our budget that the minister said was supposed to be at the beginning. There in that, in the end, there was supposed to be an annex in the middle, and in that annex it says that some 20 million marks stand on a special account of the Central Bank for Document Financing. I don't see any reason to stand on the Central Bank's account and... stand at all. Why don't you put that in the budget? So that 20 million already exists just aren't in the budget. So my proposal is to get that 20 million into the budget and finance all services related to Corridor Vc, and to further allocate 70 million, and 70 million is the amount that was allocated to the Federation from domestic incomes in 2002 when those 11.5 kilometers were made, which is exactly what I think from this one, my colleague Pamuk was at the opening of that tape. And that 70 million, so it's not much money, but in 2002 it could only be 70 million in one entity to single out and there's no reason not to plan that much money to start out at Bosnia and Herzegovina level. The eighth amendment speaks of one item on page 12, Table 18 — the creation of a project to inform society. I would ask you if you would not accept this amendment, to give me the opportunity to reverse the amendment immediately. In fact, for the information of society, it is said that this year we will separate 10,000 marks. Watch out, 10,000 marks for the information society in BiH. My proposal, as it should, is planned and adopted in Parliament to form an appropriate agency for the information society that needs to be formed and now not to repeat what is not, it is my proposal to replace those 10,000 marks with 300,000 marks to make it happen. If this amendment is not adopted, I would ask you to open up the possibility of these 10,000 being cast out. Because this is real, I mean this is cinema. This is real, I don't want to use harsh words. For informing society 10,000 marks at BiH level, it could be at an exhibition, at that half-million-dollar exhibition, someone could go there to see what an information society looks like as well as at other exhibitions. And finally, the ninth amendment, why is he at the end, because I've already explained that he's practically connected to another, and it's about she that we can't hire if these people aren't either taking over from other budgets or if they're taking over here so they don't finance themselves at other levels. Amendment IX talks about funding institutions of importance for BiH and the amount that was million here is planned to be 4 million. Why four million? The only rapper in 2002 was given 3 million in the federal budget and 3 million was given to me, so there are these 69 assets, and I see now in the federal budget nothing is separate because I guess it's waiting here. Now, if we could give 3 million in 2002, so what Mr. Jel Pamuk says, as a respected colleague from another home, we don't have to give every year for culture and state institutions, it's possible that this way of thinking can be accepted. However, I objectively disagree with him very much and that is why the proposal to stand here stands for 4 million. If nothing, we'll send this amendment to the High Representative to see a man to take care of what he cares about and lecture us through the papers. So it doesn't look like he's the only man in charge of culture in this country. And finally, where did these funds come from? These funds that are bigger here have a few here. First, some of these funds exist like those 20 million Central Banks. Some of these funds already exist. That's one source. Let it come with savings from other items, because you see, let's say the Presidency, we're going to do a big thing and we're going to save it with the Presidency, two million. Information society and the fight against poverty and European integration will be funded and we will still have money left. Only when we bring the Presidency down to the right extent is it able to finance what I have proposed to inform society, the fight against poverty, the development strategy, European integration. All that can be covered and there's still money left. And then also the inflow that I'm here, which I haven't shown. In fact, at the last session, we adopted that report by the Joint Commission that those excise duties of the Excise Act, that 31.12., up to 31.1 will be complemented by this, so it will now be more money, so since this calculation is made to the less money, then complemented by that conclusion of 31.1. that conclusion guarantees about charging for some more than 20% more funds than it is now. In other words, we will have a problem rebalance if by 31. This year we adopt these amendments and the amendments to the law, with saccisms we will have more money than we planned here, so this income, this inflow of surpluses, is not needed by counterpart Belkić. And finally, I am thanking you, Mr. Chairman, for allowing me to present these amendments in the hope that my colleagues will support me, including you, Mr. Zorić, of which you will probably accept some of this. And Mr. Novaković, I don't doubt you at all. You'll all be reasonable to accept so that
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16087	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. I'd beg a little bit just that.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16088	What, so I have a right to thank people when they tell me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16089	I'd like to ask you to.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16090	You can... win them on purpose, then answer me instead of forbid me to answer, and you don't forbid them to throw away. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16091	I haven't spoken to you at all, Mr. Lagumdžija and I haven't addressed anyone in particular, I'm just asking that
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16092	So the investigation is under way.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16093	You don't need to have a dialogue with me because I really haven't spoken to you. I'm just asking you now for a little attention to move on with the debate. Mrs. Seada Palavrić wants to correct the wrong allegations. Please prepare Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16094	I'm just gonna make one of the wrong allegations right. Namely, when it comes to the Excise Act adopted on December 29th, it seems to me, and when it comes to the lack of excise duties on luxury goods, I just want to remind Mr Lagumdžija, my esteemed colleague, that it is a set of laws of entity and the Brcko District, so the Federation Act as it was at the time of 2002 when the Alliance was in power and did not impose excise duties on luxury goods.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16095	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović has a word and a list of speakers would be exhausted. May I have your attention, please? Here you go, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. Did you ask for it? Mr. Lagumdžija, there's no problem. You'll get the word. You're not. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16096	Well, first of all, I have no intention of coming back, organizing a return to the past of Mrs. Palavrić. However, whatever the Alliance does continues to say that 31.1. of this year you, have taken the obligation to pass the law on amendments and additions to the Excise Act that will allow for further inflow. I'm saying that this extra inflow allows us to have some reserves here that aren't exactly visible. And it doesn't occur to me to talk about the past.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16097	Thank you. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16098	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to draw attention to Amendment II of the Commission to the Commission Report, which was partly spoken by fellow 71 Novaković who was the proposing, as I was informed of this amendment. It refers, Amendment II, to the Regulatory Agency for Communications, i.e. to reduced fees, to parts of the Agency’s compensation, and to the same amount of compensation increases, i.e. the revenue of the Parlamentary Assembly of Procurement and Equipment. I would like to warn you in terms of the legality of this amendment in the report. What is really in favour of the correction and the illegality and talks and the amendment submitted by counterpart Beriz Belkić. The Law on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions in Article 9(4) states that the Council of Ministers cannot reduce the budget base for the regulatory authority by more than 20%. Since the Council of Ministers has already reduced 20% of this amendment means an additional reduction of 15%, which makes this proposal illegal, amendment to illegal counterparts, Novaković, and thus illegal and this part of the Commission's report. In this regard, I appeal to correct this illegality and to adopt the amendment tabled by counterpart Belkić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16099	I thank Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I again urge the representatives of the clubs to invite MPs to enter the O.R., who are not in the O.R., we are approaching the moment when we begin to decide on the amendments and the budget itself. I'm asking you one more time, is there anything else he wants to say, to speak? Sure. Here you go. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16100	Absolutely there will always be different attitudes and of course it will be very good, because in this discussion we will, we will certainly come to a better quality solution and law at the end of the day. Look, what's very important for the adoption of the budget all these years in accordance with the Constitution, I initially said that we worked for this year, why was the Directorate for indirect taxation at state level, which is not state, but it means two entities of Brcko and the state. We could very nicely and lightly that in the Constitution we had jurisdiction for the fiscal to make your administration state, not ask entities or Brcko etc. and have your own administration. We'll choose as much as we want and we'll share as much as we want. That's not gonna happen. This can't be the first because it means we have problematicly high public spending that we have to reduce, i.e. in Gidipa, it has to be harmonised together on the amounts of all budgets, for total consolidated public spending involving all levels in the state, entities, cantons, municipalities and funds compared to Gidipi and funds compared to Gidipi. This consumption exceeds 50% and you know how controversial this is for the rest of the funds that must be achieved for these projects in the area of infrastructure and the rest. 72 Please, the budget is balanced. So first we consolidated the budget to distribute what part of the country is common, we have common original incomes. The state is now receiving its original income. That's common income. So the revenues we receive from indirect taxes, customs, excise duties and tax on excise goods are our total incomes that we share first countries and therefore the state is in a privileged position, because the state should definitely get its 251.5 million. In any case, 244 million will be paid, more, less, depending on the rate of the dollar. From the rest of the funds in the single account according to the coefficients that have been published are shared by entities and the Brcko District. So to this, any redistribution and entry on entities, any raising of an item relating to income from indirect taxes, which has now been changed means in that part of the table, we literally are then jeopardising the agreement with entities, i.e. redistributing income from indirect taxes. In this year we wait for that amount to be realized and we will regain it because we are first. So in that part, you really couldn't do something and touch it. There should be nothing to work on extending the budget framework, because our budget, more budgets of one entity, the other entity, Brcko, together we should operate 0.1% of the fiscal surplus compared to the total public, old public consumption, i.e. on Gidipa. These are our tasks, our goals. Normally, by lifting, by reducing one user's budget and by giving other users the Budget, it really always comes into question. About this PRSP story and all the activities that we need to carry out, of course it's very good to have more resources, because everything for consumption, weight, programmed. We, however, have at this moment really enough assistance from the European Commission, related to one... secretariat, related to these needs, related both to the PRSP and to the development of these strategies. So that's why we put domestic resources in that part of the Mayan, we didn't include these resources to others, because they're not normally in the budget. Kars is not in our budget. So he doesn't exist, he doesn't register with us. Only registers the third tranche, which goes directly to the macro-financial assistance of the budget. So, let me finish the discussion. A balanced budget, within what it is, is the first principle. So that's the first principle. So you shouldn't spread 336 million and you shouldn't touch 251.5 million, that's first. We can't say that sometimes we'll expect something to be distributed. There were amendments that were very specific, so 25 up, so the revenue, we take it off this, we put it on this, if there's any support for it. We believe the budget is realistically planned. That it is realistic in fact, and that all those institutions, which were founded at the end of the year under some law, at the end of the year, that will be established by law, by the founding acts, by decisions, as it says in the Law on Implementation, will be as much as you love for this year, we already have a plan, we know what we're going to start for this year, where we should pay. Everything that's not put into the budget now, so there's that reserve, which says, new users of the Budget, so I don't know they're listed there public procurement agency, so there's three or four, so underneath that one down there, I didn't bring the text, they'll all find their place when they come. So they're opening you up, according to the law. Niko one will stop anyone from becoming a beneficiary of the Budget, not under impossible conditions, but it means in what we can really provide. Because we're 73 and for execution for this year he'll be here long before he's here. You'll see that we've all really gotten wet in these borders and we don't see any need for a new thing to get disturbed and touched. So, I'm asking you, I'm not going to talk about specific amendments, but these things, these are our principles. So the framework is the principle and income from the original, from the single account, is the common principle, and it really shouldn't be touched for now. And we'll hope that we'll all try to get extra funding together. All of you are still working, very active and still very active with us, so there will be, however, the resources of another species here and from the European Commission and the World Bank, so we are solving and moving forward with the World Bank. About that donor conference, we should have a quick report and about what we've achieved there, but for projects related not to current consumption but to infrastructure, I don't know water supply, what we've been saying and, of course, the funds that exist as domestic funds, funds of funds that have some donor origin. These funds should be channelled into domestic production. These can mean not to protect domestic production, but under more favourable conditions can be credited. There are meaning domestic funds donated to Bosnia and Herzegovina that are now in the post of development. They just need to be used a little bit more and, of course, entities can't get away from this. Their original competence in these very sensitive sectors is existing and must be respected to the end, they must help us and we must solve this open issue together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16101	I thank you, too. If no one is answering for a word anymore, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to conclude the debate and invite you to proceed with the plea. We will first declare the amendments, then on the budget, afterwards on the proposal for a conclusion that two colleagues have offered regarding these salaries at the state level. First in line are amendments, give me amendments, Mr. Beriz Belkić's amendment. Mr Beriz Belkić has submitted one amendment to the Commission's amendment. I invite you to prepare for a plea. We're voting on the amendment, so you can, of course, go ahead. Mr. Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16102	I'd like to ask my colleague Azra to read that one more time, she's had an observation that something was not legal in what was adopted in the report. Please. Well, I think it's legal, too, because I don't know if I heard it right, because it says there that the Council of Ministers can't, whether or not a representative or Parliament can. That's how I understand it. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16103	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. Mrs. Hadžiahmetov obviously needs to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16104	This would indeed be an additional surprise if anyone but the Council of Ministers, what a formulation is absurd in this law. Because here it says - the Council of Ministers cannot reduce the budget submission of the regulatory authority by more than 20%. I, only to inform you that the Council of Ministers has already reduced 20% and that this amendment that we had in the parliamentary procedure means an additional reduction of 15%. Here, I ask the Council of Ministers to correct us if I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16105	I thank Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. We're moving on to a plea. Please, we are voting nicely on the amendment of Mr Beriz Belkić, which refutes Amendment II of the Commission. Prepare to vote. Vote now. This way with 22 votes for, 13 against, we have a general majority, but from the RS we don't have a majority, 4 are MPs, so. Yes, yes, they are. For the Beriz amendment. Please, if there's any consent in the College on this matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16106	Unread Discussion
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16107	Okay, okay, no consent. We're moving on to the second round of pleas. I'm taking those against this amendment to prepare for the vote. So those who are against the amendments and I urge them to vote now. - 5 from the Federation and 7 from Republika Srpska, so there are no 20 or 11 from Republika Srpska. I realise this amendment has received Parliament's support. We're crossing, so this is the amendment. We're moving on to the next amendments. Give me the next amendment to the secretary. These are Mrs. Seada Palavrić's amendments. We're pleading Amendment I. Here you go. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16108	You don't need anyone else, you as chairman, just through the amendment to say like Mr. Belkić, while people manage it, it's an amendment that's about it and it's just so much so that we know
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16109	All right, all right. All right, I appreciate it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16110	Nothing else, Amendment VII, VIII, IX, there.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16111	Please, please, please, please, please, please, please,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16112	That it's easier for us to manage
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16113	Please, first of all, I invite you to take the amendments tabled by Mrs. Seada Palavrić and when I say the amendment and you can all read what it says there. I'll read it myself, but there's no need for me to really read it all. I invite you, take this paper, the repeated amendments to Mrs. Seada Palavrić and it is Amendment I. Look at the amendment I and we plead on the amendment and Mrs. Seada Palavrić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I'm sorry, I was wrong, so now the vote. - 12 for, 16 against. The amendment didn't get the required majority. We move on to the declaration of Amendment II to Mrs. Seada Palavrić. See Amendment II. I invite you to press for a vote. Vote now. - 12 for, 17 against. This amendment does not have parliamentary support either. We move on to Amendment III, Mrs. Seada Palavrić. See Amendment III. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - Ten for, 17 against. This amendment does not have parliamentary support either. We move on to Amendment IV, Mrs. Seada Palavrić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - Ten for, 17 against. This amendment does not have parliamentary support either. 76 We move to a statement on the amendment to Mrs. Seada Palavrić. Amendment V. Look at Amendment V. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 13 for, 17 against. He doesn't have this amendment parliamentary support either. We are done with the statement on Mrs Palavrić's amendments. Give me the next amendments. We're moving on to a statement on Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's amendments. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija has given up amendment I.. We are prelaziti to a statement on Amendment II to Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - Seven for, twenty-four against. The amendment did not receive parliamentary support. We move on to a statement on Amendment III of Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 14 for, 18 against. This amendment has not received parliamentary support either. Please pay attention and if you can refrain from commenting that we vote. We move on to Amendment IV of Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 11 for, 23 against. Amendment IV does not have parliamentary support. May I have your attention, please? Please refrain from comment while we vote. We're going to vote on the amendment to Mr. Zlatko Lagudmžija. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - Ten for, 22 against. This amendment does not have parliamentary support either. We move to a statement on Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's amendment. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 13 for, 21 against. Amendment VI does not have parliamentary support either. Amendment VII to Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 16 for, 22 against. This amendment does not have parliamentary support either. Amendment VIII to Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Please. There's a vote going on. There are no interventions during the vote. You can do it later.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16114	Looked and I guess I have a business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16115	Here you go. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16116	Mr. Chairman, I'd like to get a list of myself, and especially for Corridor Vc, I'm interested.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16117	I ask the service to the MP
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16118	I can't believe Corridor Vc got
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16119	I'd like to thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. I understand your request. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16120	I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16121	I thank you, I understand your request, please pay attention. I ask that Mr Lagumdzija's Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly deliver to Mr Lagumdžija a list of any vote he requires at this stage of the plea. Mr. Novaković is a business intervention. Come on, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16122	...to look for a list of all the votes on Mr Lagumdžija's amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16123	Okay. You'll get it. I'm asking the service to do this. I'm asking the service to perform. This is a business obligation. Amendment VIII May I have your attention, please? Please, Amendment VIII to Mr. Zlatko Lagudmžija. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 12 for 20 against. He did not receive support or amendment VIII. Amendment IX. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - Eight for, 23 against. This amendment was not supported either. Amendment X. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - Ten for, 23 against. This amendment has not received any parliamentary support either. We're done with Mr. Lagudmžija's amendments. 78 We have more amendments to Mr. Milorad Živković and one amendment. We move to a statement on Mr. Milorad Živković's amendment. Amendment I. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 21 for, 10 against. 9 from the Federation, 12 from RS. He doesn't have an entity majority from the Federation. We're not consensual, are we? We don't agree. I call upon all those who object to preparing for the vote. We're going to the second round of voting. We're going to the second round of voting. It's the ones who are against it. Prepare to vote Vote now. - From Federation 13, it's less than 2/3, from RS, it's less than 2/3. The amendment has been passed. I hereby declare that Mr. Milorad Živković's amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to a statement on the budget, then. A budget covering the Commission's report and the two amendments we adopted today. I invite you to prepare for the budget statement. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Mr. Lagumdžija voices doubts about the vote. Mr. Lagumdžija suspects the vote. I declare this vote invalid, and I call on you to prepare for the re-election of the budget. Vote now. I'm asking for your attention. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I ask your attention. This is a session of the House of Representatives, let us do as the Rules of Procedure has allowed. Try not to communicate with each other. I find that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives with 29 votes in favour of, 4 against and 5 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, adopted the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and international obligations for 2005, 29 for, 4 against, and a sufficient entity majority. Thank you. Yeah, yeah. Wait a minute. We're moving on with our work. We're going over, so after the Budget Implementation Act, we're going to take a 15-minute break, and then you're going to be able to rest for a while. Moving to the 8th point of the agenda, that's Ad.8. The proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2005, 79 Me, I apologize. You're okay. Great. I'm sorry. So I apologize to my colleagues, thank them for reminding me. I just forgot. We have a proposal for the conclusion of three MPs, Mr Kunić Petar, Mirko Blagojević and Gligorić Tihomir, the proposal for a conclusion is to form a commission made up of representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly, the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Justice and the State Administration, which will draw up the working text of the Payments Act for all budgetary users in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's 90 days to realize the conclusion. The College of the Representatives' House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina is in charge. I invite you to prepare to vote on this conclusion. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 33 for, one against, two abstentions. Enough entity majority. I realize we've adopted this conclusion and now we're moving on to the 8th point of the agenda. That's Ad.8. Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions, International Obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2005, I
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16124	.... we have proposed, as the Commission, certain conclusions which point to the problem of stating these conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16125	The Commission's report was accepted by accepting this
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16126	So there is no need to make a statement specifically about the conclusions because we have proposed to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16127	There's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16128	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16129	There's no need. That's understood. Moving to the 8th point of the agenda, that's Ad.8. Proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, the international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2005, first reading of the Honorable Ladies and gentlemen, you received a report from the Commission on the draft law on 10 January. The Commission adopted 4 amendments. At the plenary stage, we didn't get the amendment. 80 I'm opening a debate. Mr. Vinko Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16130	I have to say, and the same thing I'm going to say right now, I could say about the budget, so the previous points. However, I was a little disfellowshipped from the hall, so I didn't, I didn't know what stage you were in, I didn't want to report in the course of the amendment debate, and it was about me being one and another law, and so did my colleagues from the Club in non-Croatian language. Even so far, we've had the habit of getting a branded law by which it turned out to be h even though there was nothing in Croatian. There's no such thing now. Sometimes we get it, now there's only a budget, I apologize, but only in the title, and then nowhere else. We used to get, if any of these guests are funny, let them go outside, what I'm saying now, if they find it funny to go outside, I'll keep talking about this at every session whenever I don't get materials in Croatian. So we used to get laws sometimes to write at least on the Croatian article, and now we didn't get it, and I don't want to vote against these laws today, and I also call on colleagues from the club to support this law as we supported the budget. However, here I call on the secretaries of the commission to amend the report of the Joint Commission on VAT, because yesterday I insisted that it be written in Croatian so that we can work on that point, otherwise we will request a break and we will look for it until we get that report in Croatian. I'm not saying this because of the VAT, because they keep calling me that Ruža isn't in there, and they're voting on VAT, and we're talking about VAT five points away, because whoever's calling me from the OHR who's a spy here, I don't know. But he keeps calling several times that Ruža Sopta isn't in there, and he's going to vote on VAT. That's not why I'm saying this, that's why I'm talking about language, that's why I'm talking about language. This is really inappropriate that we don't get any laws. They probably have objections and representatives of other peoples, i.e. consummations of other Bosnian and Serbian languages that they don't get materials in their own language, but this is unacceptable. This. Why doesn't it say I don't know the title budget through the budget? So can we at least ever be the denominator, not always, the numerator, I apologize, not always the denominator? In the fraction, it's only in the title of the budget through the budget and that's it. And that is the satisfaction of all languages in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's not like it's public and out loud here I'm protesting against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16131	I thank Mr. Zorić, who certainly has the right. The College will take steps to deliver materials in the Bosnian, Serbian and Croatian languages to MPs as they have defined themselves when filling out that questionnaire when they have made a solemn statement here in Parliament and I ask the service that this rule is damaged and that in the future we do not come into a situation where we have such objections and discussions that are justified in any case. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, then Mrs. Seada Palavrić. Here you go. 81
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16132	I picked this one up before this one, before my colleague Vinko started discussing, and he took practically the biggest part of what I was going to say. The chairman also pointed out the same in his practical statement to the song service. I said at one of the previous sessions that we will not discuss at all laws that are not in Serbian and Cyrillic. Unfortunately, I didn't seem to be taken seriously or in a few sessions I did and later I didn't and so here we have a number of laws today. It would make no sense to adopt the Budget Law without adopting the Law on Implementation and only for that reason will we vote this time for this law but I do ask that in the future, as my colleague Vinko has asked, they respect these rules and respect.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16133	Thank you. Mrs. Seada Palavrić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16134	I'm not going to add anything to what my predecessors said about language, except that it's really inadmissible that third year we need to guess what language it is and actually these materials aren't working in any of the three official languages. And I hope this stops being an empty story. I would like to draw attention to the letter of Ombdusman regarding the Budgetary Law. I didn't want to go to the amendment because I didn't want to postpone, and apparently, it looks enough for the amendment to deny me to fail. The Ombdusman letter in one part is justified in another, normally not. When it comes to the fact that ombdusmans, the staff of the ombudusmans are excluded from the Law on State Service, I understand that in a way that they will not be subject to those provisions of the Law on State Service which speak of appointing, on the way of appointment. But also in time, I must note that the ombudsmen understand that they can now determine salaries to heaven and pay their employees wages for the same job in height, the same job as a civil servant but far higher wages. So in that part, I don't support their letter. But I ask that, as one of the conclusions of the Budget Implementation Act, there goes the view that the ombudusmans here are right when they say that the right to appeal by the Budgetary user is not provided unless the Ministry of the Treasury meets his request, and his request is entirely in accordance with the law, because it happens or may happen to go to the Ministry of the Treasury, that it is fully justified, that he, for some reason, I believe, for the most part, is rejected, however, what the Convention requires, is that the budgetary user has the right to appeal, the right to appeal the decision of the Ministry of the Treasury. So, just in this respect, so we would respect the right to appeal, I suggest that the conclusion goes when the first amendments to this law are made, to build the right to appeal to the Treasury.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16135	Write down Mrs. Palavrić proposal for a conclusion, deliver it to me. Who else wants to talk? 82 If no one answers the word anymore, I'll conclude the debate. We move to a statement on the Law on the implementation of the budget in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 28 for, without prejudice, 6 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, I find that we adopted the Law on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2005 in the first reading. I suggest we make a statement, go straight to another reading. So we're reading about going to another reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 31 for, no objection, 4 contained, with a sufficient entity majority, a decision was made to go to another reading. I'm opening a debate in the second reading, but since there are no amendments, I'm guessing it won't even be discussed. If no one's answering the question, I'd like to conclude the debate and invite you to make a statement about this law in the second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 30 for, without against and 5 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives passed the Law on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations for 2005 and in the second reading, which is considered adopted by the law in this House. We move to a statement on Mrs. Seada Palavrić's conclusion. Mrs. Seada Palavrić prepares in writing the conclusion. We don't have time to wait, but I'll interpret the suggestion of a conclusion as I understand it. Mrs. Palavrić suggests that this House suggest that when the Council of Ministers first amends this Budget Implementation Act, the right to appeal to a budget user who has been rejected with his request for budget allocations is incorporated. Is that the point? Let them build in the law and work out the mechanism, that's the suggestion, right? Let me read it one more time. Well, here's the vote, people. I think I have to put it to a vote, so I put it all to the vote. Therefore, this is what it says, in the first amendments and additions to the 2005 budget law, it provides for the possibility of appeal to the decisions of the Ministry of Finance and the vault adopted in accordance with Articles 24 and 36 of the Law, and this is addressed to the Council of Ministers. I'm opening a debate about this. Who wants to talk? I'm finalizing the hearing, and I urge you to prepare to make a statement on this conclusion. Vote now. 13 for, 17 against, I find that the conclusion has not been reached by the necessary parliamentary majority. 83 Dear ladies and gentlemen, I'm setting a break of 15 minutes, continuing at 4:20. Please make sure that, below the agenda, there is also a very significant problem, inter alia, the Commission report on the alignment of the VAT law. Be here at 4:00 and 20 minutes. MPs, break time's up, we're moving on. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda, that's Ad.9. The proposal for a law on censuses, households, apartments and agricultural holdings in 2005, is proposed by MP Milorad Živković, the first reading of the Bill to Dom was delivered on 21 September 2004. The promoter asked to be considered in accordance with Article 104. The House has not adopted the request for an emergency procedure, so the draft law is being considered in the ordinary procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 12 October 2004. As innocent of considering this law, the College has appointed a Constitutional and Legal Commission. The Constitutional and Legal Commission submitted the report on 17 December 2004. As you have seen, most of the votes were supported by the principles of the proposed law, the Commission found that there were no amendments, accepted the bill and concluded that the proposed law was necessary to adopt. Following the commission's report, Mr. Milograd Živković, on behalf of the SNSD Club, tabled 13 amendments by calling for Article 94a of the Rules of Procedure. We're in first reading now. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16136	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, although we rarely practice it or practice it, I will only remind, on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, as you have seen, that the commission has accepted the principles. The report shows that the majority position within the commission, 4 votes are for 3 were against, there were no abstentions, although I would and do not have the right as chairman of the commission to be malignancies then I could say that someone here is too loud, etc. this is where the vote has actually been held in the way that the Rules of Procedure has been provided and the result is what is in the Commission's report. Perhaps, but it would be better by my court if the legislator explained his proposal, although this means that most of the votes supported the principles of this law. I personally have certain objections to this text of the law, and when the debate is held, then not as chairman of the committee, but as a member of this House, I will say my opinion very briefly. This is just a brief note, given the fact that we've had opportunities sometimes in one way or another to qualify for a vote on the commission, here's what I'm taking this opportunity to say is simply a vote, no vote, and I'd love to if and in future with this approach you'd be treated any way or treated any vote in any commission. Thank you very much. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16137	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Beriz Belkić and Sead Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16138	..was it okay for us to go practically through this debate in the first reading, so I will try in the shortest possible to say that the Party for BiH absolutely has no objection to making a list in this country and that we fully understand all the rational reasons that such a community, society, state has, as much as possible updated population data etc. I also said that the motives are very important, which is why we list our population and that we advocate that it be, that it be exclusively to say the motives of a non-political character so to say the economic and need for planning, etc. So we generally don't mind that the procedure continues, that is, to pass the law, but we are absolutely against these deadlines, these definitions and times and we recommend, that that is how we will determine that practically deadlines and content of these questionnaires etc. determines the Council of Ministers and that here we have some framework document, on which we will oblige the Council of Ministers to evaluate and propose to the Assembly when it is the most appropriate timing and what funds for these matters are needed, so before we have the opinion of our Bureau of Statistics which is quite correct. So, to be clear, we are not against the census, we believe that this action should be depoliticalised completely, it should be borne in mind that the current state of demographicism in BiH is not the result of natural processes, but the result of war, the result of violence, the persecution of people etc. And that should be reviewed, but I'm saying, we don't dispute the need for a list. Therefore, we can support the law for the first reading, but by the second reading, it is absolutely necessary to make certain adjustments with the date. Let's say in the law are planned funds for the list, 14 million etc. We've adopted the budget, these funds are gone, here are the deadlines set, all in 2005, no funds for it. So we should find a deal, if, of course, others think we should go to the census project. That's nice.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16139	Thank you. Mrs. Seada Palavrić, then Mr. Mirsad Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16140	Thank you. I will not repeat those discussions that were held here when we talked about the procedure because much is said about the essence of the law, but I will repeat that for the Party of Democratic Action, so I am speaking on behalf of the Party of Democratic Action, the principles on which this law is set unacceptable, that the law is incomplete. I personally consulted and found out that this law should contain many, many more elements than it contains, elements of the profession. If it were necessary to set deadlines in which municipalities would provide a cadastral basis for a census, that resources are needed, that much is needed, and that I would not want the people to say what they say, we are shouting to the cat and that the promoter insists on such a law because we have clearly received evidence from the Council of Ministers that the Council of Ministers is working very seriously on drawing up a census law. Such a law requires public debate and, in any case, the 85 census law should be passed, probably by the end of this year, but also by best law, it takes the opinion of the profession for three years to be time to prepare for the census. So, for the Census Act that would respect everything that is relevant in the world today, which provides a quality list and means for the census, we are prepared to support such a law. Neither should the European Commission's position to which it would be best if countries in the region had a 2010 census because even if there were no barriers to the census, the census would be re-run in five years. So that's what no one does, which is too expensive and I said again, the political reasons at this point are not without a shadow. The fact is, I can't get the impression that the proposer wants a list at the moment, a new list to establish new authorities in entities according to the results of the new census, which would certainly show the disastrous results of the last war. And given the fact that no constitutionality decision has been implemented either, therefore, in the bodies of the entity administration or even in the entity's legislative bodies, they are not respected, the decision on the constitutionality of the people is not respected, at this point the Party of Democratic Action cannot support either the Constitutional and Legal Commission Report or the law in its first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16141	Thank you, Mrs. Seada Palavrić. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, let's prepare Mrs. Ljiljana Milićević, the replica blames the quote, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16142	I want to respond to a statement that we have received evidence that the Council of Ministers is working very seriously on this. Well, at the first point, I read the answer of the Council of Ministers, which says that the list is statistical research and that the Agency says, I mean, they could technically do it in fact in that answer, it says that nothing has been done on this matter. So it's not true that we got it, at least I didn't get it from my colleagues, no conviction that the Council of Ministers was doing anything even on this matter. Because if they had done anything, they would have explained their obligation to make some kind of decision, it doesn't even say that they agreed or didn't agree. I respect Mr. Živković's initiative, I welcome it, and I am prepared to do what Mr. Belkić says, passing the law is a condition that the prerequisite for accessing certain actions is a prerequisite. And I totally agree with that. I have to remind you once again that the wishes of these people who did it in 2001 and then the 10th will work 20th, that's what the people who arranged it all got into all possible integrations. We can't go into integration and where we planned without knowing what we have, what we have. Rest assured, this is a very important condition, because as far as I know, it must be marked and numbered even in the countries that have entered the EU and that cattle it has. And we run and close our eyes to how many people we have. Thank you very much. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16143	Thank you. The answer to the wrong quote, the answer to the correction of the wrong quote, Mrs. Seada Palavrić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16144	If you take a magnetogram, replica
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16145	...96, attitude three, the bill promoter has the right to get a word every time he asks for a word. I'm the legislator. You have to give me your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16146	You will get your word by the time Mrs. Palavrić is finished
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16147	You can't do that. I've asked for a word before. Proposer of law
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16148	When did you ask for a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16149	Now, I've been looking for this one before, and I've been looking for a word before her. So you should give me your word on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16150	All you have to do is finish answering the line and you'll get your word right away.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16151	So if you take the magnetogram, you'll see that I said, I got the evidence, I didn't say we did. And I got evidence that the Council of Ministers was working the way I was communicating with the Department of Civil Affairs, with the Statistics Agency that I saw working on concrete papers, on the law. I've been communicating with the municipalities I've seen their monasteries unprepared, and so I spoke for myself, not ours.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16152	Mr. Milorad Živković, as legislator, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16153	I asked for a word at Mrs. Palavrić's presentation, but here, since I got the word, I'll say the rest. I mean, I don't let anyone impute me those things that I can't even remember. Here Mrs Palavrić said that I would like to verify the population list (?) The situation that happened and eventually to create another system here in BiH, which I would have to say, all those who want constitutional changes in BiH, want to make centralist BiH, to make this, what is out of their minds. Let's not talk about what's not in this law, which is 87 is not the goal of either the promoter or anyone who supports the census. And let me remind you, the census is supported by all relevant factors in this country, whether they're factors or political factors, other than the SDA. I get that, too. And everyone here who's talked about these laws about the need for adoption, about the function of this law, I think we've talked about it enough, but here's Mr. Ćeman asked me to say a few more things in the light of this. If necessary, then we'll explain it for another half hour but I know that on that side, which was initially against this law and now they're against it. I am pleased that the MPs, part of the MPs in this House, have understood the value and need of the adoption of this law and that we have come to the conclusion that we do not only agree on the term of the census. There is a possibility in this regard, there is a possibility that there is another reading on amendments. There is also the possibility that if the House of Peoples adopts this law, who wants to draw vital national interest, if they think that it is by law that we are touching anyone's vital national interest, to modify and supplement it. For that reason, I don't allow it to mean that anyone is imputing to me what I didn't intend to do about this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16154	Thank you. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. Let Mr. Momčilo Novaković prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16155	First one remarks to my colleague Palavrić. In part of her discussion, she said it was not acceptable to report to the Constitutional and Legal Commission. So in the first part, again only in the capacity of the chairman's commission to say that from the point of view of legal technical processing of the report, the report is correct. It contains what happened on the commission, briefly, and when the commission accepts the principles of a law, that means that what the proposaler took as an explanation is sufficient in that, in fact, an explanation of these principles. So, from that point of view, the Commission's report is not, should not be problematic. Of course, the text of the law for those who thought otherwise on the commission, either now, can be problematic and I have stood up to say just 2-3 things as a member of this Parliament. It also makes perfect sense to me that for BiH it would be useful to have this, how much statistical data today, that this is necessary for various budgets, concepts of development, this, that, etc. And that's what no one here is questioning. As far as the principle is concerned, we are talking, therefore, about the first reading of principles, I think exactly that the deadlines and only the time of maintenance of this law, are an important element, an important principle of this law and from that point of view absolutely to me based on what I am also consulting on this issue, learned in the meantime, so that principle is not acceptable. And if that were true, I will not call on anything else, but precisely the answer which, although she was not satisfied with this answer, Ljiljana Milićević received an answer from the Statistics Agency, but one part of that answer is indicative of me and I will only quote it in support of my discussion. 88 For quality preparation and implementation of the census, it takes between three and five years, and considerable financial resources. It is estimated from the experience of neighbouring countries that the list costs from 7 to 10 KM, therefore, marks on one registered person, and that in conditions in which the census could be conducted in BiH could be significantly more. BiH does not have the necessary infrastructure to conduct lists, registers and classifications, sketches of statistical and list circles, optical scanners, hardware, software, etc. Currently, there is a feasibility study in BiH. The study is being prepared by the UNDP, which should offer an answer to the asked question, a final quote. Therefore, I take this as a sufficient professional argument in favour of, indeed, us, even if there are no political front and last intentions, it is simply not realisticly possible to do this job as my colleague Živković suggests. And, to be correct, however, and on the trail of what I said, it seems to me on the commission, I, however, colleague Živković, you, as a legislator, have made a great effort. I appreciate that contribution, etc., but I, however, in this if not, explicit, and then implimate I see bad consequences for something that can be understood as an attempt to verify something that someone calls ethnic cleansing in one way or another, and especially in the regulations that talk about participation in authorities etc., if based on existing solutions they take the last list, then this would want you or not, it would objectively reflect so that they would get the impression that someone wants to legitimize it. From that point of view, however sensitive you are to possible objections in this way should be understood and the caution of those who are thinking from the opposite positions, that, possibly, if there are fears of that kind of being driven away, then the only solution, in my opinion, might not be to slow down what is good in this law, either through constitutional build-up or laws from other areas that talk about participation, let's say in the exercise of power, take the category of the '91 census, as a valid, and not a category of the last list, believe me, then you would provide an argument to those who fear, if nothing implicit reflections of this law on something that simply at this point people can't see. There, it was mine, in some ways a small contribution to this discussion and, again, I repeat in principle, it would be really good if we were to mention this information that fellow Živković in the bill is talking about, but at this point and for the foreseeable time it is simply not possible. Europe is talking about the 2010 census. I think that in this direction we should also think about what is professionally necessary to prepare, that is, to carry out this 2010 census in a quality way. Today, in 2005, time here goes quickly, no matter what we do in principle, we go slowly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16156	I thank Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. Mr. Momčilo Novaković has a word. Yes, here you go, Mr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I would just like to correct a few allegations of a respected colleague of Ćeman, and with regard to the principles of this law, which are not violated and the principle of this law is that, the list is carried out in 2005, and the deadlines that you set, which you institutions in BiH, the Statistics Agency but also statistical institutions in entities and the Brcko District, believe that it takes time to carry out 89 pre-prepared actions. I've tried to make up for the amendments I've tabled here under Article 94 of point 3. b. When they're trying to agree on two or more proposals that are being discussed, we're having a debate here. Here, I'm trying to be flexible enough to give them enough time to do their job, and believe me, they'll never have enough time, because statistical delusions are such that they'd most like to be given five to ten years, to prepare for a particular job. For this reason, it is very important to make a political decision to go on that list and to have these people start working once. I'm asking the question who has so far prevented them from working on that list or on those jobs that they need to carry out the list. I'll also give you a few reasons, where it wasn't enough, it doesn't take as much money as they say. You know, Croatia took seven marks per capita, I think BiH with diaries that enter that amount to keep the list for work on the ground, etc. Much less spending money, than Croatia does, I felt from that reason that six marks per capita are enough, although that per capita is a very relative thing and we never know how small it is in BiH, so it is also a small sum. And to tell those who asked where to find that money. The money is in the Budžeta BiH reserve, but just as all countries in the former Yugoslavia have been assisted by the European Union and other countries to maintain the census and BiH has the same legitimate right to seek a donation to help carry out a very important one, let me say, act, as is the census. And, in the end, please tell you, you are constantly binding constitutional changes and a census. I could also tell you, is it not more logical to make the first census, so that one, let me say, is the concern that is related to the amendment of the Constitution bridge and that then the story of constitutional changes is opened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16158	Mrs. Ljiljana Milićević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16159	You see, since Mr. Ćeman is referring to that answer we got. From this response, Mr. Ćeman was beautifully written that our Statistical Agency, what she did, planned to start preparations for the list and were five days to see how these other countries planned and beautiful people wrote except for the above activities did not take other actions. Done. Down they say they know what they need. It's not required, it's not even included in the budget application, so nothing is done about it, and what you point out is a positive step, I'll say, unfortunately. You say you're preparing a feasibility study. We have the Statistics Agency, which means it's great that it's going to work for us, and I have nothing against the UNDP and the Eurap Commission, which could have helped with that. Why didn't we get the strength to do that feasibility study and make a list, but we're just waiting for someone else to do it for us, and now I'm expecting the next step, turning around and there's nothing on the other side written. Maybe it says we're expecting a census bill from the same people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16160	Thank you. Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Have Mr. Nikola Špirić prepare himself. Here you go. 90
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16161	Dear colleagues, I, it seems to me that we have two things to separate, or here it's practically two principles. It's one thing to make a political decision. It seems to me that, in previous discussions, we are mostly dealing with the political background of this and, as far as the Club is concerned, we would, of course, support this law, because we are, in fact, also making a political decision on the list. And that's not a question for us. We feel that the list is necessary, I guess we don't need to mention it, and now the difference between not getting into economic and all other, planning, and so on. What I have to be honest, we haven't done much, we haven't worked much on this law as a club, because again I have to be honest, I didn't count on it to come at all in the second reading phase, so given the mood that was here and the commission, I have to be honest that I didn't even expect this law to come to Parliament here. But there are several ways, so there are more possibilities for this list to be executed, except for this one that's proposed here. We will uphold the law. But, please, the bill promoter lost sight of Article 18 that in this country there is an Agency for Statistics of BiH, the Republic Bureau of Statistics of the Republic of RS and the Federal Bureau of Statistics, who, for their part, can make this list quality and, if nothing else, can prepare it faster. So we don't have these institutions here and the promoter has lost sight of the role of these two last institutions in the entire list and, by the way, not just in the census, but in the list of all the other categories here. Also, for all countries in the environment, the list of agriculture was conducted as a special list. This is where it's supposed to be done together. I'm afraid we'll complicate it. But, of course, I repeat, given that we have a better law on the list, which we can change, and we can start at least preparation for the list, and the shortcomings in the course of changing, then we will support the law and first read, and if there is another reading, we will support it in another reading, because we have not acted in amendment and, if I have to say that we have had and we have reason to have several members here, on several members, I am sure that this will improve the quality of the law and allow this job to be done both faster and better. I suggest to the others, indeed, that once again, here is this amendment that he suggested that we come to them to see if and to inform us who he was meeting these deadlines with and whether these are some deadlines, which are realistically acceptable. So what worries me is that, I'm afraid we don't pass the law, so I'm worried that we don't pass a law that, for a few months, everyone finds an excuse that won't do it, and we want to pass the law that's enforceable, so the one that's going to have an effect. So I would really like to see if, now, the new deadlines, which the proposer has amended by law, or amendments, I propose to amend the amendments, whether they are in agreement with someone, with a professional institution, with someone who has seriously analyzed it, and I'm sure I'm not the one who can look at it from this position all over that width. At the end of the day, the Proposer proposed amendments, if so, to his own law, if Mr Lagumdžija can raise doubts about his vote, which the Proposer could not propose amendments to his law. 91
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16162	Mr. Živković, let me tell you, you have the right to be given your word, but in accordance with the instructions of the chairman. So, you know that. I'll let you do it this time. It wouldn't be good for you to get up and give answers after every discussion. I suggest you do it at the end, if you have to, and it's kind of a turn in Parlamettna, to allow other colleagues, but here you go, Mr. Živković, answer these questions, obviously you want to do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16163	Thank you, Chairman, for these clarifications. Namely, I just got off the phone with the wrong quote, but if you don't let me get the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16164	No, no, I'm allowing you the wrong quote. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16165	So, the guilty allegation was about agricultural holdings, that it shouldn't be in one law. In fact, BiH's laws on the '91 census put it together and everywhere in the world are trying to do it together and I think it's a good thing. You don't have to go into some other law. Also when you say they've been dropped here, they're subjective. They are not released in Article 18, and Article 17 already states that the list is organised by the Council of Ministers, carried out by the Ministry of Civil Affairs, Entity Government, the Government of Brcko District, the Resorship Ministry, the Statistics Agency in BiH, ethnic and statistical and geodesy institutions, etc., and Article 18 states only that political principle, which I have explained to the Commission, which is that there would be no talk of any revote in the adoption of the methodology, the list to be adopted by the Council of Ministers, but in addition to the proposal and consultation with the entity governments, which, naturally from its statistical agencies, i.e. the Statistical Office, will receive instructions on how this methodology to be implemented, and the Council of Ministers is only an authority that will grant that the list is implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16166	Mr. Nikola Špirić. Have Mr. Selim Bešlagić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16167	Mr. Chairman, distinguished ministers, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, I was thinking whether or not to report for a word at all, because I talked a lot about the need for a census and a census in BiH, and I must say that this is strictly a state matter, not a national and nationalist particular. We, therefore, need to discuss why there is resistance to the list. I want as your colleague and friend to know where fear lies. If they were only Srbin or if they were only Hrvat or if they were only Bošnjak for the list, I would be against that law. So if a nation just insists on the list here, it's almost not good, but we as colleagues need to discuss first what fear is. Here, I'm interested in why it's fear. So, first we have to solve some dilemmas that are strictly political in nature to get into the essence, but I don't see that today anyone 92 is discussing principles, but here there is or... it's worth whether it's time or not. But if we discuss such an important state issue, I'm afraid in 2010, we won't have a census. So, if we go back to '91, I'm worried if someone's going to legalize cleaning, killing, crimes, etc. I am convinced and would be against such a law, which would have that intention or purpose. What does it mean to be called now, he says, let's pass the law, and the principles of establishing the power of '91. So we have people on the ground today. You have one councilman where there may have been five of them on the list. It doesn't work. The census cannot ban the return of the population, the return will not stop until the last man of his free will returns to his hearth in BiH, to clear it up. So it's not the aim of the promoter. And we're the only country where everything is estimated to be the size. I guess someone outside tells us that tomorrow, what bothers me today, that a message came from any international institution, clearly said, that it takes two months, I have a feeling that those who are against it today would be encouraged to do so in two months. That's not good for this country and that's why I like what my colleague Belkić was talking about, let's get to the law skeleton, and if there are funds and when it's going to be a list, of course there has to be a political clear attitude and it's best that it's a consensus. So, I want to be explained why someone thinks if I suggest, here I am not a proposer, is a proposed club from a party that I'm from, a list of what's left. Let's eliminate the fears. I'm not about to pass a law that will dominate fear. Where you think that law could be discriminatory for any individual man. Well, here, I say, applying the '91 results. I beg you, all those who defend, apply the results from '91. I beg you, all those who defend, apply the results of the '91 list. to first analyse whether they are living in the municipality and where the MPs have applied it. It doesn't matter which municipality is in BiH, whether it's in the entity or not. Whether it's applied or not. Let's estimate when that fear will go away. Will he be gone in three years, in five years, which is a guarantee. So, I'm asking you to consider us as responsible great people, to take the list as a state matter, not a matter of outwitting. Whoever wants to legalize cleaning, persecute, will not succeed in this country. So that intention is in vain. But let us not flirt with each other with fear. I'm not afraid of anything in this country. There's no reason for any living creature in this country to be afraid, especially to fear the population list in their country, please. So, it's a strict state matter and we're now using data and this, since colleague Novaković was saying, there's no entity law, I don't know whether it's a mistake or not. But entity institutions have long fought not to revive the Agency and the statistics of the BiH state and what will be the result? The state agency or the state administration will come to life, they'll go to adapt, that's what I'm afraid of, but it's an activity that's being led. I'm sorry to hear that. So, there are all places that want to work in line with the interests of the state and the citizens of this country and I think that today we need to look at the principles in the first reading, that we need to stay open the law so that the Council of Ministers, if there are useful suggestions, says we think the situation is mature, and even around the date. So, the promoter said in 2005, it is almost certain that there are no funds and can't be 2005. He can't even do 2006. So, how about 2007? How about 2008? So can we at least a year before we're ordered? So I'm talking to demographics in BiH, who are different nationalities, people I've learned from. People don't mind, so he says it's a normal move, but we who should relax, but we who should relax people out of fear and 93 make good expensive laws, we try to scare people with laws, it's me, and for every discrimination, it's sanctioned, and that's why it's my appeal to adopt principles, and that what they are, we're in no hurry, to see how we can get out of it. Is there even a political mood, if it doesn't exist, we're wasting our time today. But what I was about to say is that we simply try to explain to each other where fear comes from. And, if only the Srbin, here is the impression that the very MPs of the Serb people are in favour of the list. If that's the case, I'm against the list. Let's see. Not only do the Srbin need a list in this country. Are we in the same country? Is it time we knew how many were born and how many died, how many are there at all? How many of us are in the diaspora? How many of us are inside BiH. How many were expelled? As long as he wants to come back. All the lists need to be made. Whoever deals with crimes, persecutions, should answer. There you go. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16168	Thank you. Mr. Selim Bešlagić, may Mr. Mirsad Ćeman be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16169	Dear chairman, respected colleagues, from a technical point of view the census in BiH is needed and we need to know from the number of people, through property, to the number of cattle, if we want to go into any kind of integration, conversations, etc. I had a conversation with Mr. Živković on radio, Radio BiH and, in principle, he and I are on the list. Here is the question that has been asked the date and I think it is the thing that Beriz Belkić said, here is now Špirić, and the promoter himself suggested. We need a law and, if we need to discuss it, let's say now that we adopt it as a principle, because the commission said. There is no sin done, because by law it is possible, and to leave room for a debate about these things when, when they are acquired, I would say political conditions. We need to know what we want and that law, except for what's been said here. There may be other things we need and, third thing that is very important, I mean, I personally think the law is necessary, but the deadline is very short. Why would I say that? I speak for one simple reason why I once participated in a census in a preparation, where making statistical circles is as a list, I would say, a unit, a very important thing. And we still don't have in BiH, I will freely say the demarcated parts of some municipalities that belong to whether the RS or the Federation. So, I mean, it's a series of difficulties, but if we don't have the law, I'm telling you, we're never gonna solve it. Therefore, my deep belief that a good law should be made on the statistical census, property, agricultural holdings, that these terms should be left behind and, I am not at all to say must be 2010. Please, when the conditions are met, let's call it 2007, there's a law, there's a decision in Parliament to get into the census and everything we agree on, if we need to repeat the list in 2010, so I don't think we're going to be such a pain that we can't do that. 94 Therefore, I propose that the Commission's proposal as it is to adopt it, to continue the procedure for amendments and the rest, and that these critical points, as we have said, that is, it seems to me only to be a deadline and with these shortcomings that should be installed, to be left in the amendment phase, and that, after the second reading, we definitely adopt the law either by deadline or without deadline, but with those elements that we as Parliament have accepted. I believe that a list of everything in BiH is needed at this point. Not from any party, not from any party, but simply because of that, the technique and BiH can't go any further. Believe me, he can't go any further. I therefore believe that in the first reading we can support the principles, as the Commission said, and that for the second reading, that is, through the amendment phase, we can throw out what is controversial and get a good law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16170	Thank you. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, may Mr. Sead Avdić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16171	Oh, I was gonna say, I think we're ignoring procedural things. First law is in first reading. For me, it is indicative that there were no amendments to the law itself at that stage, during the time when amendments were to be intervened. That's one thing. Obviously, then that thinking about the need of the law itself was in that context, is 2005, year for a list or some year in the future. That's one thing to mention. The second thing, the legislator is, and, if, and my fellow Špirić, in some way, to remind me, here are a few months, so you can say years or two, I don't know since this story lasts on the need for a list, the bill promoter knew that fact, he also knew that there was no willingness to, if we call it political preparedness for this, regardless of what certain expert circles say we should, but that it takes a long time to prepare for it, but still, when proposing the law, he focused on 2005, as a year of census and, after considering the law, as a competent commission promoter once again goes on a six-month period. In my court, it is very questionable whether the Club of MPs, which is why I have called to put this to you as a College, is very questionable whether it is possible now, regardless of the provisions of the Poslvonik of Procedure, which the Club has called upon, as new moments, because all the moments, and the assessment that both March 31st and October, are too close to the terms to be treated as new moments at present as the basis for the investment of new amendments. I'm even more inclined to interpret, but this is the formal side of things, that it's very questionable whether it can be called with such a factual state to this provision of the Rules of Procedure. But it's up to you in the College to assess it and, according to your relationship. There were questions here, and if, therefore, it wasn't for the maintenance of the census, set in 2005, it might be possible to discuss this, I'm saying it now in, in some way, my own name, maybe it could be discussed that principles as such are accepted. The need for a list, this, what, that no one simply questions, but for me it's 95, and that's still, I won't answer again, I'm ending up, because very relevantly, when a competent statistical agency says, for the serious work of this species takes from three to five years. Let me, I don't know, maybe everything from what I need to know, but I do believe that this is a competent opinion and therefore, even an innovative proposal, even if there is no disputed moment of whether the amendments are valid, given the procedure, it is very questionable now that November 2005 may be the date of the election reflection, the census. Therefore, it should be kept in mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16172	Mr. Živković has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16173	Dear Mr. Chairman, let me just say to my esteemed colleague, obviously when there's not enough good arguments, he's looking for formal things, but I'll say the same thing. Namely, the document, which we adopted here in Parliament and the Council of Ministers programme of activities for the implementation of priorities in 2004, etc. on page 34. Laws and acts to be adopted, to prepare the population census law, deadline 31.5.2004. The Council of Ministers did not prepare and I, as an MP, considered it, a party that wants to join the European Union as soon as possible and that the reform process speeds up, if already the Council of Ministers is not in the capacity to do so, so that I can propose the law. So, to be formally respected, and it was done in the ninth month, as you well know, and that there were political wills and stories about these formal reasons, we were allowed to make a political decision last year that this law was needed in 2005, not these amendments were necessary. On the other hand, when you discuss these amendments, we didn't come to that stage. We didn't come to this stage to discuss whether these amendments that are here on your desk are valid or not valid, because that's the story in the second reading, and I also think that the technical service here has made a little bit of a mistake, she put item 3a 94 here, and I wanted it to be item 94b. Who in this debate, if we can't, when he's trying to agree on two or more proposals, which are being discussed, means there are more proposals here on the term, on which the list will be conducted, and on this basis I spoke to Mr. Novaković, and I apologized to the chairman, yes, when he asked me if I had been having talks with anyone. Last year, a round table was held on the need for a census in the RS, the Demographic Union, where the director of the RS Statistics Agency was and said it was short-term for them, but it is acceptable to transfer it to November, which is also known that demographics take the day when migration is at least, movement in a particular region, to carry out the census, so that they remain eligible for that term in 2005, or November.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16174	Thank you. Mr. Sead Avdić asked for a word. Here you go. 96
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16175	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there is no fear and there is no need for a term of fear, political discussion, a fundamental political discussion in this House to call who is afraid and what fear is generated here, and who is the source of fear? Which means serious political considerations about one of the most important political projects and one of the most important political decisions, it's a mega project, it should simply be allowed to talk. It's all legitimate. And, well, counterpart Novaković said, it's a fundamental political decision. Don't let us lie. Parliament makes political decisions, whether that's the case with counterpart Novaković. Well, the laws are an instrument to implement these political decisions, so it is not the basic function of MPs in Parliament to propose laws. Because we simply have a narrow throat of passing in the Council of Ministers, and then parliamentarians, clubs and parliamentary parties, or parties in parliamentary clubs, are simply really trying and proposing legislative projects. Well, you know who we chose to propose laws in this country. Which means you need to keep in mind. So this is a single state mega project, not every day, every ten years. Mega project, which means a lot more than the law predicted. So, do not, as far as the political decision is concerned, say the European Commission, then Monitoring the team for the implementation of the accompanying conditions in the Council of Europe, the accession to the European Community cannot be without the date of the census and that is quite clear and logical. So the census will have to be arranged in this country, and that's not disputed. Eh, here we differ, the European Commission says, where you are in a hurry in 2010 is... for you from the aspect of the BiH census. It is a feasibility study by the UNDP and the European Commission. We don't have that. We don't simply have the Council of Ministers to refer to this law. It's really our instrument. How to discuss one law, how to operate the deadlines, how to operate the funds needed to enforce the law, and the Council of Ministers has no response from the Council of Ministers, we don't have easy. What do we do? Well, it is not likely that fellow MP Živković or SNSD Club will operate on dates for the implementation of a simple census in this country. Come on, guys. It's not this, it's a system, it's a state, it's a Parliament, it's got a Council of Ministers, it's got executive authorities. Well, we're not really gonna operate on deadlines. Well, I can't really understand what we're doing. We're modeling politics here. We are modelling Parliament's policy. Well, I don't suppose we're really going to assume that it's going to be in November or September, without the Statistics Agency, without the Council of Ministers, without a whole one system that's going to be implementing that mega project, as I call it. Which means it would be extremely unserious of us, extremely unserious with a lot of improvisation, for reasons of political motives and goals, simply in such a way discipline Parliament and simply seek the adoption of this law, which means, I propose what my colleague Špirić said. We can make a political decision, of course. The list is required. Enough for the first question, and to refer the law to the Council of Ministers, to return the law to us radically amended, with instructions for law enforcement, with sublegal acts, with the means needed, with the dynamics of doing the job, etc. It's perfectly clear, it's more normal and it's going its way and there's no fear whatsoever, there's no obsessing or estimating this law, nationalisation and ethnic mobilization around this law, etc. It's all legitimate discussion. I'm asking you in that context to seriously consider this. So it's clear... the decision and it's not disputed. The political decision has already been made by both the international community and this Parliament when we adopted the ready-made conditions and 97 when we adopted the conditions set by the European Community. So that's not a question. It is not necessarily a controversial political blip about the need for a census in BiH. These other things are slow.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16176	Thank you. The Republic has Mr Nikola Špirić, Mr. Beriz Belkić should prepare, after which Mr. Elmir Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16177	I agree with my colleague Avdić, that the census is a mega project. That, therefore, nobody slows down, but Sejo Avdić falls into my collapsing, when he says we don't have a Council of Ministers, then he says let's send it to an address he doesn't have. It'll be easy for us to find a way out, if we want to. I just want us to let go, since it's a mega project we're talking about this job without what I said that someone here doesn't think it's just one people or someone who cares about others coming up against it, because it's not a good project. So I like talking to you like this today. Two, three months ago, we couldn't talk like this, and I don't mind. So, I don't mind having this legal project given to the Council of Ministers and I think that we can even as Parliament and say the list, even if we have political will in 2008 or 2007, and the task of the executive is to prepare for this to happen that day, but in order for that to happen, we have to have the law. So I'm saying we have to have a law, and not here when I'm asking the Council of Ministers and when there's a Council of Ministers crisis, then MPs don't think that's the case. This is where the Council of Ministers crisis is, and when the Council of Ministers' crisis is, when I ask the Council of Ministers' question and when the Council of Ministers' crisis, then MPs don't think it is. This is where the Council of Ministers crisis hides itself as a minor of pregnancy. The stomach grows, and she shouts I am not rich, and the people see. So, I don't know what it is. Please be consistent when it comes to the Council of Ministers. If he's not here, let's pick him. But I think we got him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16178	Replication response.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16179	I agree, the bulls grab the horns, and the people do the words, and there's no dilemma, I accept that. But when I said, in the second and... I said, it's not the Council of Ministers. I'm asking you in that context to talk. Using every language inaccuracy, for a replica is not good, and we really understand each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16180	Please, Beriz Belkić, and let Mr Elmir Jahić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16181	It is certain that we have the opportunity today to see that the promoters are in front of the Council of Ministers and I see no reason, we remain at what I said at the 98th beginning and we have no fear, after all to discuss this law and amendments to the Constitution etc. about any question in this country. So it would be good for us to get, however, the opinion and assessment of those who need to carry out this list, when possible, in a way, we are not able. I personally am unable to assess whether it is 2006, 2007, 2008, or 2009, I am simply not competent to give. So, we support the need as a principle of need for the BiH census, but, however, we want the opinion of the country's executive government, let it consult with the entity governments, statistics and everything else, and let it tell us, and we will recommend that this parliament wants a list, and let it say when possible, with what means and with what money. That's my attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16182	Mr. Elmir Jahić of the reported debaters. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16183	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I'd like to start with one formal thing first. So, I don't get it. Actually, it's public, I'd like an explanation. Does it mean, since the amendment phase has passed, or whether the amendment phase has passed, it seems that the amendment phase has passed, which means we cannot, therefore, MPs cannot submit new amendments to the proposal for this law. As far as I can tell, the amendment phase has passed. So MPs can't make amendments. So, in principle, every normal one, supported, is not at all controversial that the BiH census is needed. Why? Here, the promoter spoke of it, therefore, for the management of social policy, i.e. social plans, economic, health policy management, education policy management, etc. For these projections, for these plans, we need to see what data we need. I would like, indeed, for guests to be called in Parliament, to be serious. So to take this data, in fact, that we need data to run this kind of, I don't know, social policy, economic policy, etc. That sure needs the number of citizens, the sex structure, the age structure and the other. So for this species and for social policy and economic policy, health policy, education, we don't need national, religious characteristics. Taking these values, therefore, national, religious, we need for some other things. And that's what Mr. Ćeman was talking about. So, a large number of laws, above all, of the State Service Act, therefore, about the introduction of national representation, say that these people are employed on the basis of the last census. We, therefore, have one paradox, therefore, that all the data we are talking about must be met by the conditions necessary for BiH's entry into European integration. So for you, we really don't need data on national and religious belongings. So, instead of population, age, sex structure, etc. Which I'm not saying, therefore, is not to be done, but to know that we need these data for other purposes. That's one thing. Another thing, as far as the list of assets is concerned, so when this law is passed, we have to keep in mind some other laws, which this auction has passed, 99 here, I'll take first of all the Dayton Agreement, or some of the provisions of that agreement, which, therefore, we didn't respect, which is a prerequisite for some things, but are a prerequisite for these things to be done. What do I mean? Here's a list of assets. There's a question, some returner over there I'm going to take, I don't know, Rudo municipality. She went back to Fatima and had a bunch of rocks where her bath was. Shall we write down her house that was in '91? year, shall we list that pile of rocks? What are we going to do, from which we're going to make a list, and the state of such a pile of rocks in BiH, so there are about 80,000 in both entities. And the state was obliged by the Dayton Agreement and many other laws later to turn these piles of stones into houses, so that Fata, Mara, could say, write me down with that house and some other property, and the state was obliged to make up for it, and now the state might write it down. How's he gonna write it down without that property? Not to mention the problem of restitution of the country. Land, property, etc., which is very, very problematic in this. Look, then does this law cover and the principles of Eurostat are not covered, therefore, by the European Statistical Agency. According to these principles, therefore, each person has a statistical number. Which means, if they've been gone for a year where you are at that address, the right to a statistical number is lost. In this way over a million BiH citizens have no right to be covered by the BiH census. They're covered by the list, I don't know if they're in Germany, the United States, Austria, Australia, etc. So let's talk about it. Another thing, people sign up to live somewhere in a house, even have IDs. Based on all kinds of data, here, they were the data that issued 200,000 fake ID cards, I really don't believe that this is the number, but surely there's a large number of fake ID cards. So we can't do that, so these people are being verified. It must be carried out primarily by the audit of the CIPS project. Unfortunately, it's not done. In that context, given what I see, therefore, that I cannot invest amendments to this law, I think, indeed, that the Council of Ministers should, therefore, once again be directed to the Council of Ministers, having in mind all of these problems, which are there, some of the actions that were long needed to be done, which are preconditions for the census to be carried out, to be activated in this field and to be proposed by the Council of Ministers. We have often said here that serious projects should first pass the Council of Ministers and that the Council of Ministers should give its consent. So, serious projects. I think this is, Mr. Novaković said well, that this is a first-class political issue. This isn't just a technical question. Here, that's my suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16184	I thank Mr. Jahić. We have another one reported, it's also a bill promoter, and then you'll get suggestions behind this table, and then you'll be able to discuss and plead. Here you go. You have options now...
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16185	It's obvious we're knocking on a house where there's no one here and we keep talking to the Council of Ministers, who could've done this job by the 5th month last year, but he didn't do it. I also don't see any reason why none of them wanted to come to the commission when we discussed this law, why BiH's Statistics Agency didn't come 100, so what we're asking of them, opinion, amendments, etc. Do we preserve the dignity of this House and force institutions not to do their job? I think it's our duty, too. When Mr. Jahić spoke of what is being recorded, that it is not in this law, I think it is. It writes fine in the contents of the list of articles 13 and 14 and lists the stones if there are stones. If there's no rocks we can't list that house wasn't there. We'll finally know if that man got the house, why that house was torn down, how he got it... I think it's time in this country that we know if anyone has stones or someone has a house and who's got the house, and who's left with just stones. Also when you mention Eurostat. Please, you haven't read the last page of this bill, where it finely writes the explanation and the way someone declares whether he is a resident or not and says so. The principle of the permanent population has been applied in all of the current World War II lists, which also states. Since 2001, there has been a change in the new definition of the total population, the economic commission uses the term common population, and the criterion and so on. The usual place of residence with a time limit of 12 months. It's Eurostat. He was applied to this law. We, if we need to change something beyond that, and here we are open to change it, but don't say it wasn't applied, when applied in Eurostat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16186	I thank Mr. Živković. And if I said no more reports, Mr. Novaković is asking for a word. I'd only like to ask for a moment, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16187	Actually, it's a replica. In fact, it seems to me that there's a mood here for us to move forward with this law and, indeed, I would ask the Proposer not to limit it to his discussions. So, I think the requirement to go towards the Council of Ministers actually allows for the passing of this law, and the proposer should accept it in exactly that way, looking not in a way that he wants to stall by adopting the law. I realized that most of the people who suggested this kind of thing proposed it with the will to get to the law, which we will apply, and on the other hand, therefore, is my replica addressed, therefore, to the more proposer to support this way of thinking that this law should be passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16188	I thank Mr. Novaković, I think the College is, following this debate, we here practically have two options. One is the normal one, and that is that now that we have concluded the debate, we start with a statement in the first reading, and then the second reading goes, there is no new amendment phase, except in the regular course of things. She can only be exceptional. 101 However, we here have one proposal, which has arrived from several MPs. It is, that in the complete work and complete this project must be included by the Council of Ministers and there is a proposal and we from the College think that this proposal is good, that this law, by the conclusion of the House, is delivered to the Council of Ministers, that the Council of Ministers take this law into consideration and that the Council of Ministers is being shown about this matter. I agree, of course, with all those people who say this is a first-rate state project. Some people say that it is also a mega project and I agree with it and I think that the Council of Ministers, which is, in fact, the Government of BiH must be involved in this matter and I think it is a good thing that we deliver this to the Council of Ministers, without any statement from this House in any reading when this law is Wednesday, and that would be a proposal from the College. Here, I'm opening a debate on this proposal. Here you go. Mr. Novaković, then Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16189	I must say immediately that I support the proposal to go to the Council of Ministers, by, please, opening the need in itself, because the Council of Ministers will act, I assume, open the need for an amendment phase. So, in itself, it opens up the need for the amendment phase, in that sense, I just want to complement the proposal to the Council of Ministers, with an extension of the amendment phase.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16190	Please, somebody's got a microphone on and a cell phone on at the same time. Come on, please. Mr. Novaković checked in on his own. Turn off your phones. Don't let us have any more problems with those phones. Please, this is supposed to be, be careful, the law goes to the Council of Ministers, it's a proposal from the College. Once we've received and received the Council of Ministers' position on this matter, then we'll decide further. We are the ones who decide further on fate, the amendment phase, if the law comes from the Council of Ministers with such and such an attitude, this home must go with it to another reading, it is already evident that a new phase will be needed. Therefore, we will decide when we get it from the Council of Ministers. We can't predict any further developments now. We can put this proposal to a statement, that the law, therefore, is the conclusion proposal of the College, that the law is being delivered to the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration and clarification. I urge you to prepare for the vote, to plead, after which we continue our proceedings. Don't let us set any deadlines on this law. We ask the Council of Ministers to plead. We'll deliver, we as Dom can react if the promoter is here, can initiate the debate. That's understood. Prepare to vote. Here you go, Mr. Živković. 102
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16191	And, if I haven't seen in the Rules of Procedure the way this first reading is done, but here as a good will, means the SNSD Club, that this law is to be made, if it has to be done, we will also be a proposal and, if I really can't find a member by which we should do so, means that... who we didn't vote after the Constitutional and Legal Commission's report, the debates we're giving to the Council of Ministers, who didn't want to participate in that law, but, here, I would ask you to make at least some reasonable deadline that we can.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16192	Please, nice. I agree with Mr. Živković that this situation is not common in the Rules of Procedure. However, in the Dom's Rules of Procedure as well as in every parliament in the world, there is a provision that states that in certain situations, specific conclusions can be addressed by the House. After all, this house brings its rules of procedure. So, it's not this, it's an atypical situation, but it's a very important and very important question that we could even engage in these readings today, and I think this is good. I put this conclusion on the statement, a proposal for a conclusion, which, of course, I was just quoting. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, mostly 34 votes in favour of the 1st abstention, with a sufficient entity majority, adopted a conclusion, under which the law is delivered to the Council of Ministers for Statement. Ad.10. A proposal for uniform rules for making legal rules in BiH institutions I would ask you, for which time I would ask for attention and for those who would type this stenogram, there will be a wonder how many times I have spoken and how many times they will have to type, please pay attention, here again please. As you know at the 48th session, we had in the agenda a proposal for uniform rules for making legal rules in BiH institutions. Due to the new circumstances, we gave the Commission a new 15-day deadline for, possibly, investing and considering the amendments. The Constitutional and Legal Commission held a hearing yesterday on this material, and this morning you received a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which contained 16 amendments adopted by the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I'm opening the debate. I think this is a very important document, which needs to be paid attention and I urge you to participate in the debate. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Know that the component of this amendment is the Commission. We move to a statement and vote on uniform rules for making legal rules in BiH institutions. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives unanimously, I apologize, with a majority of 33 votes in favour and 1 abstention, without votes against and with a sufficient entity majority, adopted the proposal, i.e. the Single Rules for making legal rules in BiH institutions. 103 Ad.11. The Joint Commission's report on an effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the Value Added Tax Act was also held yesterday by the Joint Commission to agree on the text of the VAT law. You've received a report. You have seen that the Commission has agreed on the text of the law by adopting 21 amendments. I am opening a debate on the Commission's report. Mr. Vinko Zorić has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16193	The Commission has also designated me as a rapporteur and in this report I have been undermining 30 mistakes, and I have recently asked nicely to receive a new report in Croatian, however, it seems that services do not listen to us or some of our services do not listen. I propose to the House that we accept this report regardless of what is not written in three languages, in three official languages, used in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16194	I thank Mr. Zorić. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16195	First, I expected Mr. Zorić to bring us into this a little more precisely. The report we received has two sides, Mr. Zorić. I have to admit when I read the first page, I was very pleased. The first page says that, since our home has adopted 34 amendments and that people's home two amendments, then the first page says that you in your commission have accepted most of the amendments of the House of Representatives and that they have become an integral part of the above mentioned text and I really thought it was an honor, you were there on the commission fighting for the rise of this home and I was pleasantly surprised. Unfortunately, I opened the other side, so third, and then I realized that you, in fact, Mr Zorić, along with two other members of the Commission, did something that was least said, you had no moral right to do. Because in this home everything that was and all the discussions that were conducted, what most of us were looking for was completely deviating from what you have accepted here. Namely, those 21 amendments that you accepted from our home, you first, what did you do? What is it that you accepted? What is it that the House of Nations has accepted from us? The people's homes agreed to throw out brackets and scrimmages and VAT on the front page. Okay, the House of Peoples was very respectful of our amendment. It's home to the people, and you've agreed to replace yourself with which. You accepted to replace the chapter with a voice. You accepted that the services provided were replaced with the service provided. You've accepted to replace code with whatever. It's not in English. It's in ours. You've agreed to replace VAT with VAT. You've accepted to be worth replacing with the total value. You accepted to replace accounting with accounting, and to replace bookkeeping with accounting. You've accepted with premonitions, replacing yourself with tolerances. In other words, you have accepted nothing, which this house essentially sought and which this house did not agree with the House of Nations. 104 I wish I could laugh, and the dumpling stands here when I see you playing with the dignity of this house and what is now called the people's final introduction of taxes to the poor. In the last session of the House, we were against it, because you threw out 8% for food, and then the Dom pushed it to be at least zero, to leave our zeros behind for the drugs, the newspapers, the bread, the milk and the rest of our life supplies. Now, you've just thrown it out with your decision, agreeing with that home, which, at the very least, and what I can't figure out, don't get me wrong. I respect every home. That's the House of Peoples, we're the House of Representatives. We are here people who have been chosen by the people directly there. That's where the one who didn't come in here came into that house and now everything that they agree with there, we say here, it's okay, the other way around, whoever's with whoever it is with whom it's with, and so on. You're right. You actually accepted what the House adopted, which the Council of Ministers adopted, what Pedi Eždaun asked of you, what the European Union asked of you, etc. As we all agreed on this, I was on my way and I saw it, I got the prescribing title that VAT was introduced from 8% to 18%. I thought, here it is, I'm saying something I've been playing, but I can see it's done in Serbia, which is not exactly a countertype of a spectacularly efficient country with a strong administration. It's our neighbor, it's our friends, our brothers, etc., and the logic isn't that they're some kind of spectacular strong administration and they can do 8 and 18, and we don't know. We do not distinguish sweet bread from unsullied bread. In other words, after the excise, which you also will through the SDA, HDZ and the SDS, the truth and Jelina, with this binding tissue between these three parties, with your thunderbolt, after the excise, you have again crushed this home of the people and our decision. I think it's scary, and I think it's embarrassing, and I think this shows the complete social incompetence of this house, and when I read the esteemed fellow Genjac yesterday and saw him, I'm sorry, or I saw him, so I read him right away when I saw him. When I saw how he said social programs would solve entities, I actually just now realized what a man said according to your consent, there's not even those stale conclusions of yours about social programs. So, and you threw that out, those conclusions that would be social programs. The only thing that could have been said by a fellow Genjac is that next to the entities on social programs, Merhamet, dobrotvor, Karitas and Labanvalencija will be working on Labanevalencija, and that we adopt it, and that finely, as they say, we love and say, don't worry, we don't care about you, you're taken care of by Merhamet and the rest of their charities. So, I think, I repeat once again, to remain listed here in this recording, in addition to what fellow Džaferović has begged us to be calm, I want to say again, this is a shameful report by the Commission, it is a shame that today we have been apologising the tax on the poor, after we kicked off our feet at the last session domestic production and even we are embarrassing, even it is a shame that you broke out the conclusion that I think is complete, that even the demagogue conclusion. You even threw that out, and if this home today accepts this report, then it will mean that this home objectively loses that legitimacy, which it had when it was elected here. That's why I want you here at the end, Mr. Chairman, to ask you, because I'm going to stay at the vote just to hear, to get this list, to give me this listing, there are no more 105 stomachs to participate in this today. But since Dr. Nakaš told me, and the man knows me what I really think, what I would be sorry for later, because it would have written something in a stenogram if it had started to say things, that I would have done things, and God damn it, I think if one of the people had come out, someone who voted for us, I'd rather say what I'm not going to say right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16196	Thank you. Mr. Vinko Zorić. Replica, and be prepared for Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16197	I, at the beginning, also seek a list, but not a vote, but the stories of this previous one. So, I'd like a stenogram about what my colleague Lagumdžija said here, if I had the horrors. So, to read more often, it can be published as a scientific paper, especially with regard to the knowledge of the Rules of Procedure. So it's not true that we didn't defend the attitudes of this house, but it's known how the law agrees. We have not accepted any amendments to the House of Peoples, 75% of the amendments to this House have been accepted, therefore, agreed. And what concerns fellow Lagumdžija, it says here that most were accepted. Most of them are accepted. Except you in the SDP don't know how to count most. In 2000, you formed the House of the Federation of BiH with 14 MPs and considered it to be the majority. You see, 16 of them were sitting at home and it was most of them, but as legalists you accepted and worked for a year and a half with 14 of the 30 Croatian MPs at the Federation House and you obviously don't know what the majority is, but here I'm saying that 21 out of 29 is almost 75% of the amendments accepted, which is whether you're satisfied with the content or not. You may have voted against the Commission because you knew that me and my colleague, Sead and Jelina, were going to have a bad defense of the attitudes of this house. But fortunately, you were a minority when that commission was determined.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16198	Thank you. Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16199	...agreement with Dom, usually in some way we step down, not about the number of amendments, but about principles. So we've had one model different home of the people, this time we've accepted, our commission has accepted the model that the House of Nations has accepted. But I answered for something else. The BiH party has determined and shown its relationship in earlier discussions and in the process of adopting the version, which we have adopted here with a delay, but here, finally the promoter made an effort to obtain some of the materials he used, I saw yesterday during the agreement at 106 press conferences, so I also got this paper. Unfortunately, he's in the finale himself, etc., but I'd like to comment on him a little bit. I am very sorry that the public seems to have lost faith, that is to say, silenced, so it was very active and intense associations, employers, associations of citizens, all of a sudden, it became a pain. They accepted this, but here's what I did most for the next one. So that basic question, here's the Council of Ministers' Proposer, I guess they delivered us one piece of paper, where they say, what the profession says is one or more feet, so it keeps repeating, wherever opportunities allow, it should only be used one rate of VAT. He says everywhere they allow. I don't think our opportunities allow us, but, on the other hand, in these materials, it says whether a single VAT rate of 17% will cause the prices of basic life supplies to rise. The answer, he says, is most likely that, with many exclaimers, and then in second place he says, on page 15, whether a 17% single VAT rate should lead to a rise in the prices of basic life supplies, the answer is no. This confuses me a little bit, it's probably the difference... two are different expressions etc. Okay, okay, but Vinko has no reason not to let you say his opinion. So to be clear, we won't support this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16200	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16201	Mr. Chairman, the esteemed members of the Council of Ministers, the Honorable Coalge MPs, namely, since I received this report and, behold, listed it after this debate by Dr. Lagumdžija, and I see it signed by the President of the Commission by Mr. Halid Genjac. He's a gynecologist, I have a feeling there's a lot of similarities between the matter he's facing in his VAT profession, so I'm not surprised, unfortunately that's how it is, and I wish the citizens wouldn't tell us what Dr. Lagumdžija said. It doesn't matter if he tells us today or in half a year. It's a very serious problem, and that's why I've been making us laugh a little bit. Basically, I was just about to form a matching group, and I didn't know we were gonna get a lecture group. The point of consent was one foot or two feet. It even raises the question of whether the commission can change principles. It can bring the text of the laws into line less sentences or the same, members of the law, who are less complex, but here it was about principles and the sense of agreement was whether it was going to be one step or two feet and I regret that it was the members of the Commission, since it was a joint committee that did not defend this home or did not defend it, I don't think it should be angry, maybe someone else would have been, maybe it would have been so, but what it was for sure that you didn't defend Vinko, I'm not mad at me. Why can't you? There's no problem. Well, it would be fairer for the citizens to say, see what the citizens of BiH get, if we send them and we tell them it's harmonised, we get the VAT, 21 amendments are accepted, if the essence is known to be one or two feet. That's what interests them. I'm not the pressure of the law. I've made my point about the law. And, I must tell you, this will be an extraction of both mine and anyone who thinks it's coming out. If there is a gathering, and if it comes, and it is safe to come, then there is no need to be angry or to expect a reaction from the citizens to what Parliament has done and I must say, I will also not support this report. This was a lecture, not a match. Thank you very much. 107
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16202	Thank you. Mr. Gligorić Tihomir, may Mr. Lagumdžija be prepared for the second time.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16203	My colleagues and colleagues, last time we talked a lot about it, I now don't understand why the members of the Commission are angry, i.e. the chairman of this committee, who, in fact, as a rapporteur, is determined to be angry at certain issues, etc. It's like you want this to go by as soon as possible and somehow cover it up, let me tell you, the shame, really, because the citizens were expecting something else. And that's to make their lives easier. We pass laws, democracy is such as to benefit citizens and the public. There are no citizens here in this law and in this report, and that must be said clearly. I want to make a difference between the MPs who brought our citizens into this position, and you will see the protests go and that is understood. They expected us to have so much strength that we would honor this home's own decision and thus preserve, practically, the dignity of this parlamett and the people. We didn't do it. I ask you, all free-thinking MPs, to reject this report and return faith to the people waiting there and already buying expensive goods, and we do not have as state mechanisms to force those who raise their prices. I believe that those who have accepted can proudly enter OHR's rooms, but how they will before their people. I believe that this law is the greatest shame that MPs could have done to themselves, and that is why I believe that we in this assembly have people's and non-national MPs? As much as anyone is drilling and thinking of representing the people, this is a clear draw between this people, who expects this Parliament to at least sometimes or at least when it comes to his situation, do something useful for him. It was known as soon as the Commission was formed from the majority assembly, precisely the elected MPs, that the farce would continue and result practically in this report. I believe that we can save the honor, the face of Parliament, the people, the people's representatives, only if we refuse this report and return to the beginning and practically in this way we will surely, I assure you, do a good thing, even those who have sinned to understand their mistake today, now here right now and vote against this report, will restore their dignity to that people. This is the last appeal to you who have sinned, come on, well, let's assume you've made a mistake, that it's out of ignorance. Here, now is the time to correct that mistake of yours and vote against something, which is purely unnatural. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16204	Thank you. The guilty nugget Mr. Špirić, after that briefly, since the second discussion is Mr. Lagumdžija, then he will receive the discussion Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16205	... it is the right for everyone to decide according to their will and to think that it is not good to cultivate in parliamentary 108 practices, but what I forgot to say, and I want to say, through the wrong assumption, you remember that this House has reached a conclusion, it seems to me to the initiative of Seade Palavrić, that the Council of Ministers and, if one rate is accepted, constitute a social programme. Gentlemen, today we adopted the Budget, there is no item for the social program. That's what I want to warn you, that we can't deceive the citizens. They need to be told the truth. It is a difficult situation, there is not even that conclusion that we are calling for it to be an obligation to form a social programme, and we had a chance within the Budget to ask, before we get to this point where the funds for the social programme are. Realising that a single rate will strike budgets and such poor citizens. That's the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16206	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we discussed this law in the first reading, in the second reading, several times here in the House and I ask you, this is the Commission's report. I, of course, allow the discussion in the Rules of Procedure, but don't let us repeat our discussions on the Commission's report, which we had. You've seen the commission report and I beg you, here's Mr. Lagumdžija for the second time he gets the word to say it briefly, since he gets the word today. Whose statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16207	First, he called me a man with a last name. In the sociological political theory, Mr Špirić, there are folk and non-national MPs, and in democracy, it is known that international MPs are being thrown out of power with democracy on the street before they have had their mandate. So it's a classic, and I had to say it for other colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16208	I thank Mr. Gligorić. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16209	First of all, Mr. Chairman, you should not be afraid that I will speak for a long time, because I have no intention.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16210	I'm a man who speaks mostly based on experience. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16211	But it would be good for Mr. Chairman to use the Rules of Procedure in your experience. Namely, the Rules of Procedure do not know the first and second discussions. The Rules of Procedure do not know the short discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16212	That's right. He only knows one discussion. Here you go. 109
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16213	So, Mr. Chairman, you really have opportunities that I don't have, which is.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16214	Of course, I'm the chairman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16215	Of course, it gives you the right to abuse that duty you have. You are not chosen here to be someone who will teach us brains, but to be here to be someone who will lead between us, to allow us to conduct a normal debate, in which you can participate, not to train us here and that every time I feel like I'm only facing some kind of investigation or some investigative authority. There's no need for you to do this to us. I would therefore ask you, Mr. Chairman, to let me say a few arguments, a few things, which are about the report, and I answered my word the second time, because from my first call to another, a terrible, terrible new moment, Mr. Chairman, appeared to me. And the new moment was Mr. Beriz Belkić's paper in his hand, which he had, which was telling us here about the paper, which he got on the commission yesterday, because he went to the Commission there for an understanding and he got, unlike us ordinary MPs, he got what our commission had, had one material that he had prepared as chairman of the Council of Ministers, with an argument, which convinced this commission. I find it inadmissible, unacceptable, that the chairman of the Council of Ministers and our commission comes to that commission to supply the data that others gave him and then hide it from us, which we need here to adopt. Why was that done? Because I'm just flying the view as Beriz waved his hand, you can see that it's a material that hasn't even prepared Adnan Terzić, it's not even Hurtić's prepared, but prepared by the people on the committee, who's prepared all of this for the mcedural, and they're giving us one-sided, false information in an argument on how to convince you who want to vote as strangers tell you, that whoever's being us, who's being here, we're rebelling and we're saying what's logical and what everyone in this country knows. It is not normal for you to have one material here for us, which is against, not national or national, and the other for others, and I express my most energetic apprehension over this manipulation by the Council of Ministers and our representatives in the Commission, who work behind us with representatives of the international community, because these materials show that it is false data and false argumentation, because, among other things, it is said that we must act as other European countries, and it is known that all other European countries and what rates are and what directives of the Eurupian Union, which speak of how rates can be different and in which period. Everything we've adopted here is in accordance with those directives. Here, our administration internationally through our domestic experts, I did not tell the traitor chairman, you are my witness, through the domestics, whatever it is, people, that it is contrary to the interest of the people who chose us here, and, Mr. Zorić, fortunately for you, you are the majority, fortunately, of the people who chose you and me. 110
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16216	I thank Mr. Lagumdžija and I, above all, have the need to tell Mr. Lagumdzija that everything I do here, I am doing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and everything I do is trying to respect the procedure, and that is the only way I ask you to understand and no different. I reject all other insinuations to my account. Mr. Vinko Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16217	Mr. Chairman, I would like to say here that the material Mr. Lagumdžija is talking about and just now Mr. Belkić is not an integral part of the report, that I personally commented yesterday that the witness would last five or six times shorter and that the report would be the same if we had not had a specific presentation. So the presentation certainly didn't affect my opinion at all, and I don't think it affected my colleagues' opinion. We have defended this attitude of this home. It's clear how she agrees, it's enough that only one representative of six is not in favour and that the amendment is not agreed upon, and I'm glad to hear it here, and it's really for me the paper and, here, I fixed the mood that I'm a favorite of the international community and vice versa.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16218	Thank you. Mr. Momčilo Novaković has long been reporting for the word, but we have had replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16219	I thank the chairman. I just want to make one observation out of the debate today, which is that the most they discussed was the report by those who were also against that law with a zero rate and a rate of 18, and 17%, respectively. You were the one who discussed the most today, and if they were against it then, which of course is not very logical. So, if they were to discuss this, perhaps they needed much more to discuss those who supported the law with zero and one more step, and today they have a report that is different. Then the debate would be more logical and less politically burdened. Most of the people were told by those whom the least trusted. And they're always, I guess, getting rid of that complex in big words calls for the people. Calls, of course the people come out into the streets, that the people will do it anyway and so on. The people will vote again in the elections and trust one or the other. Behind this project, so behind this whole job, we had two options, or the commission had two options. She could have rejected the law and passed the law. Or to allow the law to be passed, because the law has not been passed yet. So, she could have or refused the law, if one of the members of the commission didn't agree, that's when the project went down. Whether it's good or not, I can't judge. So I can't tell from this position. It seems to me that there's been a lot of fuss about it and maybe it would be bad if this law didn't exist, I say, maybe, I don't know, I didn't work on this project so I could know all the consequences of not passing the law. The other option was for people to get along and come here and say, "Here you go, it's a report that's not good, it's good, evaluate it and vote against or for it." It is not correct to insult the members of the Commission. I'm not a lawyer for any member of the Commission, 111 believe that someone suggested me on that committee, I don't know if I would agree, most likely not to. But it is not correct, indeed to colleagues here in this way to treat as Mr. Lagumdžija has addressed Mr. Vinko Zorić. I am fully aware that he is much better at defending himself than I just said. I expected that we here would make clear the views on the report, and I must say that the pressure, which has been put on MPs, or delegates in the House of Peoples, and then on this Parliament, and we are all aware that I am not talking about political parties, etc. It probably affected, not likely, but certainly affected the course of events as it was. Is that good or not good, that's another question. The colleagues who are now talking about it know perfectly well what that pressure looks like and whether they have felt and appreciated many times. Whether this time or not, it is now the matter of their decision and, of course, it will use politically one way or another. I'm the only one who answered, just to say that it's not right for the most to be discussed by those who were all against the law and in that variant, which is for us to take, favourable, if today we look at it here that it's all accepted how we did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16220	I thank Mr. Novaković. Mrs. Seada Palavrić, then Mr. Moranjkić answered, as far as I could see, so Mr. Selim Bešlagić and then bring the debate to an end. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16221	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, and to be honest with you today, step forward to those who care deeply for the people and the citizens has not surprised at all. They began before the House of Peoples passed a one-foot law and were continued through the media, which are prone to this group, who these days were calling people to a riot, and how you'd be with VAT, I'd even say the Hague act. But today they're probably disappointed, not in front of the building as much as I know people are protesting VAT. We gentlemen in the Commission aren't as stupid as some people think here. You shouldn't have convinced us of what you believe in. So what was new in yesterday's presentation is that our debate resulted in the Council of Ministers clearly and loudly offering a solution to social programmes when it comes to the financial segment. So the problem with the World Bank has been solved, to secure funding for social programmes, which should be operational at the same time as the start of the VAT application, it is the only newspaper in the presentation that was carried out yesterday. So let us, if the citizens have chosen us as representatives, to represent their interests, then let us represent them, and we'll see what happens in the election. We believe this is best for the citizens. I speak for myself. So, as important as it is for citizens to be fed up, it's almost more important that they stop thieving and stop the theft of a billion and 400 million marks a year. I'm firmly convinced that this VAT ensures it. 112 However, do not think that we have been gentle to the Administration, the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board. They were and we clearly told them what we were expecting from them and why we didn't accept the amendment to the House of Peoples, which was accepted in the House of Peoples, that the Management Board of the Administration could at any moment say, you know, this member of the law will not apply. Peoplely said to give them our destiny, when this VAT will be introduced and when VAT will be introduced in both ways and how it will begin. We clearly told them we were unhappy. We said that to the chairman, because his word is crucial in the board of directors, that's the law, and he swallowed it to the gods. So don't think we're the three people who didn't know what they were doing. We've been given the trust of this house to bring the law into line. I firmly believe this is the only possible solution right now. See what was done in Montenegro when VAT was introduced with the same rate, unique. What was done in Croatia while it was a unique rate, look at Italy that still has a unique rate today and look at other countries and I ask you not to make it harder, help, if you can't help us get to this law, even if you don't get away with it, even if you don't run the chase against us, as you have done in the past months.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16222	Thank you. Mr. Muhamer Moranjkić has his word. Let Mr. Selim Bešlagić prepare himself, it is a list of the reported, after which we will conclude the debates.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I am pleased that Honorable colleague Novaković has said that he has not heard so far, so let him hear the man, who voted in favour of the law and who voted in favour of a rate of 17, but also a zero rate, because I still consider it to be the lowest degree that can be approached so far to regulate something in this area. I spoke twice in this House about VAT. I held a conversation with the Dutch ambassador, who came in front of a group of the European Union Assembly after VAT. I've participated in sessions, I know exactly five-six positive sides that give a unique rate. I know exactly five or six sides that are going to break over our heads, more or less and, normally, I wouldn't be talking about it right now, because that's what time went by and it would be going back. What makes me, as an MP, as a man, disagree and I can never agree on it next. That one home after so much crystalling of this very important problem and one of the most important laws, which has been passed in BiH at this time, however, agreed on something, and then what has been brought into line, as agreed, and I think it is good, that is my opinion agreed. Someone didn't like it, and then the manipulation of the Rules of Procedure started, and Article 99(3) was abused, in which it is under technical or national interest, which is practically solved in this context, and technically I am also national, is subject to this and the House of Peoples is misused to do what has been done. What I cannot accept as a man is the following. That now the intelligence of this entire home, which has been discussing such an important business for five or six months, is being taken over by three people and suddenly they're making a decision and it is, unfortunately, against 113 decisions made by this home. Now, that I as a man can't accept and for me is that... I am both a person and a soul for this law, because you see and I, I claim, am abound for fighting criminals, crime and illegal acts and the other side that this law brings in this context, and I welcome and how I will be against it with my soul. Not at all. I'd be against myself, but I can't vote for this, for this report, for the other words of the law, and I'm in the soul for that law. Something's tearing me apart. Something inside of me right now. I don't know what to do as a man as an MP, and, of course, I'll eventually define myself and vote against the law, and I'm not against the law in my soul. I am in the soul against the resolution of this law and against the normal report of the Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16224	This is a very delicate situation. Mr. Novaković's replica. Have Mr. Selim Bešlagić prepare himself. Please briefly and after that the debate is closed. I ask the presidents of the clubs to inform the MPs, after this we will go to a vote on this report that MPs who are not in the O.R. to enter the O.R. Please do it one more time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16225	I just want to tell my colleague, Moranjkić, that I, too, know both well. So, as well as my colleague Moranjkić and how much I would prefer that the Commission agreed on that text that we had here. But, gentlemen, we are in a position to look into, or today, the consequences of not passing the law. That's the whole point. The adoption and not the adoption of the report means the adoption of the law or not the adoption of the law. Here, can anyone from the Council of Ministers say what it means not to pass the law. In this text I really disagree with as a man. But I do believe that if the non-compliance of the law will bring more damage than the adoption of a law like this, someone must, if it will bring more damage, then I will vote in favour of the report. That there's less damage than there is in law. That's the whole point. It's not about whether she's hurt or not being hurt by our vanity as a parliamentarian, she's hurt. I think that the international community, i.e. representatives very perfiduously and incorrectly exploited the relationship between the two homes and even the principles introduced into something that has not been practiced so far. It's all like that, and we all agree on that question. We just don't seem to agree on one thing. To assess what it means to adopt the law or not to adopt it. If not passing the law won't bring any consequences, all of what we've done in this process so far, I'm not about to accept the report. But if it's going to have consequences, then I'll accept it with, at the cost that I have to go with changes of the bill in some future period. But I will accept it because of the consequences of the law not being passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16226	I thank Mr. Novaković. Mr. Selim Bešlagić came to the floor and I no longer have the discussions reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16227	Mr. Chairman, if you'll excuse me, I didn't want to discuss it, but I have to present one piece of information here, when this assembly adopted the principles of multi-stage taxation, then Deputy High Representative Mr. Hayes 114 was in Tuzla. On the question of journalists that Dom has adopted multiple rates, what's going to happen now. You know what he said. He answered, now the House of Nations will adopt this one step, and then we will form a commission and the commission will bring what it has brought here now. Look, I said then, since I was on a show with Sead at the time, I said we'd choose the SDA committee, HDZ, I said the SDS, but it was from the PDP and unfortunately what I predicted, or what hejs said to me, I didn't predict anything, so that's what it was. But the essential thing here is that today, this is the last debate, I wouldn't want anyone to replicate it to me, I apologize right now, if I offended anyone, put it to a vote and end this torture, because I think this is a way of acting how valid this home is. This is, in fact, free to say after that, what the international community is looking for, let the high representative and his deputy come here and let him say adopt, raise your hands and get the job done. I don't think there's any point in having a four-month discussion here. Four months of debate whether or not three or two degrees more, in order to come to this conclusion here and I know that it was not easy for the Commission, but I can never accept the principle that 15 people have more power than the home of 40 and the couries of parliamentarians, that is what hurts me, and that I would ask that we take one discussion of what it is of international interest, which this home should represent, not VAT policy or I don't know politics about some other things. I think that's a fundamental question, where we as members of this house have to ask that question. Because if we're all going to agree, when we agree to get someone to ask a question there and deny everything we've done, I think we're spending the money we've got for nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16228	I thank Mr. Selim Bešlagić. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am closing the debate, since there are no more reported ones, I invite all of you to prepare for the vote. We vote on the Commission's report, which agreed on the text of the VAT Act. We vote on the Commission's report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 19 for, 11 against, 13 from the Federation, 6 from RS, there is a majority of both parlamentary and entity. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has adopted a Joint Commission Report on the alignment of the text on the VAT law, and thus I find that the law has been passed in this House. So let me do it again. Listing you get whoever you want, you can get a list. 19 for, 11 against, 3 abstentions. 13 of the Federation, 6 of the Republic of Srpksa. So both general and entity majority. This is how we ended the 11th agenda. We're going to the 12th agenda. Ad.12. The Joint Commission's report on an effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the Law on the Import and Export of Weapons and Military Equipment 115 I, the commission held a session yesterday. You've received a report. The Commission has brought the law into line by adopting seven amendments. I'm opening the debate. Does anyone want to talk about this report? I'm closing the debate if no one answers the word and I'm putting this report out loud. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote now. 26 for, 1 against and 4 abstentions. Enough entity majority. I also find that we have accepted this report, which also passed this law at the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I beg you for a little patience yet, we shall soon, I hope it will be over. We're moving to the 13th point of the agenda. Ad.13. Proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 51(a) of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights in BiH, Official Messenger of Bosnia and Herzegovina No 32/02 The Constitutional and Legal Commission submitted a proposal for authentic interpretation of Article 51(a) of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights in BiH on 17 December. I'm opening a debate and we're voting, of course, on the proposal for authentic interpretation. Does anyone want to talk? I'm closing the debate, prepare for a plea. We move to a statement on the report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, i.e. on the Proposal for authentic interpretation. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina unanimously, pardoned, most of the 27 votes for, without prejudice, 2 abstentions and enough entity majority, accepted this authentic interpretation. We're going to the 14th point of the agenda. Ad.14. Report of the Constitutional and Legal Committee on the need to amend Article 2 The BiH election law, instead of giving an authentic interpretation of this member, was submitted by the Constitutional and Legal Commission on 17 December by a report from this agenda point instead of giving an authentic interpretation. As you have seen, at the request of the Bosnian Party, the Constitutional and Legal Commission was considering the provision of Article 2.13. The electoral law also found that the provision was not quite clear, and took the view that it was most rational to approach amendments instead of authentic interpretation, or amendments to the electoral law. I don't think Dom has anything else left, but to support this Constitutional and Legal Commission report and to refer the initiative to the Election Commission, so that this provision is complemented, along with long initiatives to amend and supplement the Election Law. If anyone, Mr. Nikola Špirić is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16229	Mr. Chairman, namely, what can be formally-legally concluded here is that the Constitutional-Law Commission has not entered into the essence of the submission. It was required authentic interpretation, and it gives an initiative to amend the electoral law. I don't mind, but let 116 call it the Constitutional-Legal Commission initiative, not authentic interpretation, or let the Constitutional-Legal Commission enter the scale and let it give authentic interpretation, because here from the very point of the agenda, it stands. There are a lot of demands, I know about changing the election law, different parts, etc. Don't defend anyone from making a constitutional-legal commission a proposal for a change. But, about this submission, this can't do this. So the Constitutional and Legal Commission was supposed to authentically interpret the submission it received, to enter the metrics. And if she thinks the Constitutional and Legal Commission should change not only this part, but anything, let her suggest it's not a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16230	I am in this context and understand this initiative of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, but, behold, the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission is asking for a word and has a word, Mr. Mirsad Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16231	Thank you very much. Therefore, every law adopted produces a legal fact and has an impact on the rights and interests of citizens individually, as well as legal entities. There are, of course, different laws for different areas and, rarely, it is essential to claim, through authentic interpretation, the real meaning of the law, because they can possibly be resolved in the meantime, or the consequences, which would occur, or the consequences that would be bad for the rights and interests of the citizens. Therefore, and I recall that authentic interpretation applies from the time of the law's entry into force, conditionally expressed from the position and time of interpretation retroactively, although I say conditionally, it is not retroactive, but therefore it has meaning from the time of application of that law. In a concrete case, however, counterpart Špirić, the Commission took one practical thing into account, one fact being, at a time when, while the whole procedure was prepared, and here I, indeed, as far as I know there was no tendency to delay the team, given that we did not have these things even businessly arranged at one point, the Commission assessed because, at a time when it received sufficient arguments to deal with this issue, the deadlines for the submissions of the lists had already expired. It was not possible to correct, given all together, possibly, those solutions, which are problematic, i.e. to conduct at the same time elections for municipalities and cantonal congregations on the same day, then the Commission has assessed, and that the best solution, if there is, and there is some ambiguity or at least need to further define this issue, that it is best to suggest that, instead of now, it is a better solution to the authentic interpretation of the law, which, defacto, will not be possible to apply for the purpose in which, at one point, it is interpreted and requested, that it is best to propose, that, possibly, that the ambiguity, if there is still a solution in the previous second stage of the addition of the BiH Election Law. I can say as the chairman of the Commission, if this House insists on it, we will, of course, make an effort and give authentic interpretation, but its practical application for the local elections implemented will simply not be possible and, therefore, I, on behalf of the Commission, will indeed appeal again, although it already stands through the report, to accept this report and to forward it as such to that body, that group that will work on amendments and additions to the law at this second stage, which should follow. Thank you very much. 117
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16232	I thank Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. Is there anyone else to talk about? I'm closing the debate. So, I think Mr. Ćeman also explained what Mr. Nikola Špirić was saying, that this is, in fact, what I read about. So, I'm putting this report to a vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parlametary Assembly's House of Representatives, with a majority of 23 votes in favour and 1 against, 4 abstentions and enough entity majority, accepted the Constitutional and Legal Commission's report. We're moving to the 15th point of the agenda. Ad.15. Giving consent to ratification (a) The Treaty between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the joint financing of the maintenance and propulsion of the Komarna-Neum-Metski Channel regional drain system. I'm opening a debate on this floor. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. As far as I can tell. I find that the predstavnički of Representatives unanimously with 31 votes in favour, with a sufficient entity majority, with no votes against and without hateful votes, gave consent to ratification of the contract between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on joint financing of the reflection and drive of the Komarna-Neum-Mljetski Channel regional drain system. b) The Government of BiH and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany Agreement on Financial Co-operation in 2003 If no one wants to speak, I conclude the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. As far as I can tell. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parlamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina unanimously with 31 votes in favour, without votes against and abstention and with a sufficient entity majority, gave consent to the ratification of this agreement under point b.c) of the Development Loan Agreement, providing urban infrastructure and providing services between BiH and the International Development Association Mr Nikola Špirić seeks word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16233	Ladies and gentlemen, I've been here to put this on the agenda, but I must say, for procedural reasons, I will not support the ratification of this agreement. 118 Namely, you have received a memo as well as I that the Bureau warns that this agreement was given for ratification without a statement from the Council of Ministers. I do not dispute that the Council of Ministers, when the opportunity comes to plead for this agreement, will be raised here as a responsible parliament, the question of what if it happens, can happen theoretically or practically that the Council of Ministers says it is not the best contract for BiH, and Parliament has ratified. I think it's past time that we as Parliament take responsibility in this way. I regret that the Council of Ministers is not in a position to meet. I agree it's not the first case. We had one last session, so they begged us from the World Bank to take it into consideration from the Council of Ministers, that this was the last time they would not ask us again, it was only ten days before they told us. I want the agreement concerning BiH's duties to comply with the procedure. So that will be why I won't support the ratification of this agreement, not that I dispute any of the agreements.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16234	I thank Mr. Nikola Špirić. Who wants to talk any further? Mr. Beriz Belkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16235	I mean, it's not fair like this. So the rest of us will accept, regardless of the procedure etc. Then why did you put this on the agenda? Why didn't you let us know there were some fellers in the procedure? We won't vote either. Do not include it in the agenda. Don't put us in a position.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16236	This is included in the agenda with a unanimous decision by the College, but it is the right of every member of the College and member of Parliament to represent the views he considers in the debate on the agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16237	I agree with Mr. Džaferović, but I didn't know about this detail.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16238	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. Please, Mrs. Marić, you have your word now. You don't need to go to a place, there's a pay phone and talk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16239	As far as the procedure is concerned, I'm really asking you, so there wouldn't be any confusion and why I said it, and we got the wrong idea, by procedure, really, really, right now I don't have the law on conclusion, the law on conclusion, has the long title and his article 6 and gives the possibility that the Ministry of Finance and the vault when it has everything necessary in the attachment of the acts, that's most importantly, it's still this loan. Bosnia and Herzegovina is in debt, entities are being subsidized and they have sent all the necessary documentation from the adoption of finance ministries, the entity government and sent us a request to go to 119 ratification. We're still officially in debt as a country, the money gets the entities, the projects are theirs, and it's all about entities subsidized. We have two cases, regular procedures for the Ministry and Council of Ministers, the Presidency, Parliament. The possibility in Article 6 I will now go by law and find you a point and a indent, means that it goes directly to the Presidency and to Parliament. So we took advantage of the law of opportunity and the right to go to the presidency and this is another case. The credit of the European Bank one went to the Presidency first, so you without the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16240	Mrs. Marić, we understand. Thank you very much. Hold on a second. Mr. Kunić. Mr. Martin Raguž has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16241	This is kind of a replica to Mr. Belkić, so it's about how members of the College put something on the agenda. So, as a member of the College, I put this on the agenda, and as chairman of the committee and on the agenda of the commission and you have a written report. So I felt that there were no procedural obstacles for Parliament to give a positive opinion today and that it was not lost in the realisation of such an important contract, and that some members of the College have a different opinion, they bring it out and defend it here. I mean, we don't have to make problems about it. I mean, there's nothing wrong here in the procedure, all the facts are satisfied and I don't see any reason to politicise this.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16242	I thank Mr. Raguž. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina voted by a majority of 25 votes in favour of, 2 against, 4 abstentions and with a sufficient entity majority gave consent to ratification and agreement under point c. Ad.16. On behalf of Ms Senija Kapetanović as a member of the (a) Administrative Commission, (b) of the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum (c) of the Interparliamentary Group of BiH in the Interparliamentary Union, the Club of Members of the Party for BiH has submitted a proposal to elect Mrs Senija Kapetanović as a member of these working bodies of the House of Representatives. I suggest we suddenly vote for all three decisions. Mr. Beriz Belkić is asking for a word. 120
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16243	One more intervention, one warning, today a lot of language is spoken, so that I, too, speak, as they say. I ask that copies of the invitation and supplement, which come to the members of the Party for BiH, be in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What's the matter, Šefik? The problem is I'm saying this.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-12-0.u16244	It's not a problem at all, I'm glad you're saying it, I agree. Everything I said to Mr. Belkić, everything I said after Mr. Zorić and Mr. Novaković discussed, I could repeat now and after the laundry. There's no need, it's in the stenogram, of course it applies to this. I invite you to join the vote. We vote for all three appointments. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly unanimously with 30 votes, with no votes against and abstentioned and with the sufficient majority appointed Ms. Senija Kapetanović, chose in fact, as a member of the Administrative Commission, then the Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum and, ultimately, as a member of the Intepral Group of BiH in the Interparliamentary Union. I congratulate her on my name and on behalf of the House and I wish her much success in her work. Ad.17. Mr. Nikola Špirić's proposal for a conclusion you've reached. I don't think there's any need for a debate. We just need to make a statement, that's how we imagined it in the context of a special agenda point, and if no one is answering for a word, I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote now. I find that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parlametary Assembly's House of Representatives is a majority vote, with 15 votes in favour, 6 against and 6 abstentions and with enough, but we are going to the second round. It's missing here. We'll go to the second circle. It'll be the same result. We're going to the second round. I want to stay principled until the end. I call upon all those who, therefore, are here in general, there is no entity majority. I call on all those who are against the Federation to vote from the RS, of course, who are against voting, to prepare for the vote, this is the second round. Vote now. So there's not enough majority here. At least 19 should be against it, 6 is against the Federation. They don't have two-thirds and the conclusion is passed. We're going to the 18th agenda. Ad.18. Mr. Milorad Živković's proposal for a conclusion If there is no need for some debate, I am putting forward a proposal for a vote. I invite you to prepare for the vote. 121 Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina voted with a majority of 23 votes in favour of, 1 vote against, 4 abstentions and with a sufficient entity majority adopted this proposal, proposed by Mr Milorad Živković. Dear ladies and gentlemen, this is how I can say that in 18 hours and 50 minutes we have completed the work of the 50th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I thank you. Once again, I draw attention to the College's recommendation that all MPs take part in an action to help the tsunami victims in Southeast Asia. I'm turning my attention one more time, that's one thing. And, second thing, the next 51st session, that you can plan your time will be held, our delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe travels at the end of this month, in the last week, it is a regular session, we will have a 1, 2, possibly 3 February. Thank you, safe and sound.
