ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5222	Gentlemen, honored delegates, honored guests, representatives of public invofuming funds, all present I welcome and open the 52nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please, colleagues, put your cards in the machine. Thank you very much. The agenda for today’s congregation has changed something compared to what you received in the call and the revised agenda you also received the sessions themselves. There are 14 delegates present at the session. Of which 4 of the Bosniak people, 5 of the Croatian people, 5 of the order of the Serb people. Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija has announced a little delay, but it will most likely come. And, for the 52nd session, I propose the following agenda;
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5225	Okay. In fact, we talked at the Club in front of this session, about two points of the agenda that were removed from the original proposal, or one point that was downloaded, one point that had not been downloaded, but the conditions for putting it on the agenda were prepared. Namely, the proposal for a law on the implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons and Their Extermination was on the Commission and the Commission had a certain opinion on the law. At the House of Representatives, the Law was adopted and we thought that this point would return today to prepare procedural assumptions for the completion of the procedure, in terms of the extension of the deadlines. However, we have been informed that the College has achieved salgasity, i.e. allowed the extension of the deadlines for this law, as regards the amendment, so there is no need to include this point. However, the agreement between BiH and Slovenia on legal services was on the committee responsible, and I think it should be placed on the agenda as a pre-term part of the agenda, but only in the sense that a conclusion is reached on procedural issues and that procedural assumptions should continue to work on the work of the agreement, as the Commission has also assessed inadequately and assessed that certain activities on the agreement are needed. I think it would be a good idea to put this agreement on the agenda, so as to be a last resort and then, in the context of the agreement debate, not in the sense of the adoption of the Agreement, respecting the Commission's position to agree on the procedural actions to be continued and on which the House should be made known in order to continue working on this Agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5226	Thank you very much. Any other objections? So I understand, if there are no objections, that we try to conclude. I understand that as far as these chemical weapons are concerned, we have agreed and there is nothing to do with this agreement with the Republic of Slovenia, that we should put on the agenda and agree on procedural solutions rather than a statement of agreement but procedural solutions. How do we continue to work to bring this agreement into line? Yes, there you go, Vinko. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5227	Well, as a member of this committee, I welcome the chairman and delegates. As for these agreements and this agreement with Greece, I think it's in the same treatment as this agreement with Slovenia. He passed the Commission, and I'm sorry there's no president here. We made that decision to bring these two agreements together with the other parties, so this one, they passed to the Commission and I think they can be at the session and then we'll see what decisions we'll make and conclusions in the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5228	What would be the occasion, is what applies to this agreement with Greece, yes and Slovenia. So you'd vote for this to be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5229	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5230	Thank you very much. I'll put this one to the vote. Please, who agrees to place this agreement with the Republic of Slovenia as the last item of the agenda? Please vote now. Here's this one, one correction, here's a good one, and you voted. The gentleman, Goran, voted the same for it, but it turns out he didn't. We agreed unanimously that this agreement with the Republic of Slovenia should enter into the agenda. I now invite fellow Members of Parliament, if, should not be declared on the agenda, to continue working on it. The first point is, Ad.1. Answers to delegate questions and delegate questions Answers to delegate questions were received by Mr. Goran Milojević, two responses by Boško Šiljegović, Osman Brka, Velimir Jukić, Tomislav Limov, and two answers. Are the delegates satisfied with the answers, please I would like to make a statement in this order as I have read. Mr. Goran Milojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5231	Dearly respected colleagues, representatives of public information funds, representatives of the Council of Ministers, dear guests, let's say I give some assessment that I am partially satisfied, what someone would say 20% of me may be satisfied, but it seems to me that we are getting answers here for answers, where only form is satisfied and the essential answer always stays in some kind of fog somewhere. I don't really remember any of the four colleagues coming out here for a pay phone or answering their words and saying that they were completely satisfied with the answer they received from the one to whom it was addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5232	Thank you very much. Here we heard Mr. Goran Milojević. He's basically not happy. Mr. Boško Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5233	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I pleaded for the answer at one of the previous sessions. The response is informative, I am satisfied, I received a response from the Federation of BiH government, from the Federal Ministry of Police. It means information that there have been problems with stockpiling at the CompanyVitezite, or thefts, etc. and EUFOR is included in this, so I am happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5234	We must stress that this is the response of federal institutions, not the state's. When Goran says he doesn't remember anyone being satisfied with the response the Council of Ministers has given him, he's competent, but here's Boško says he's pleased. Thank you very much. Mr. Osman Brka, you've also got the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5235	I almost didn't do it again, here it is in my hand, I wouldn't repeat what Mr. First One who got the answer answered. Namely, this is here, just for the answer. There's no answer to what's going to be done what I've been looking for... there's no at all, 430 crossings remain. That's not an answer to me. It's my answer when it's settled and it's not here.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5236	Thank you very much, Mr. brkati. So Mr. brkati is not happy with the answer either. Mr. Velimir Jukić, please, Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5237	Mr. President, esteemed fellow MPs, representatives of the Council of Ministers, international organisations, journalists, ladies and gentlemen, well, here's the second time I've been given an incomplete answer to my 15.9 question. 2005. In the first answer, so the question was, what are the number of employees and what is the national structure of employees, and especially journalists, editors at public broadcasters in BiH? So, those that are financed from the flats of the tv tax. A month ago, I got a piece of the answer I already commented here from the Croatian Federation of BiH, so I wouldn't comment on it any more, I wouldn't repeat it. I have now received an updated answer, with data on RTV BiH, and I have not yet received data on Republika Srpska's tv. Turns out I don't know myself, me or anyone who's overly concerned with a single question that maybe someone thinks doesn't matter, or it's important, but it's a good thing that these questions don't even work out at all, or when this is asked to get an answer to be 5, that's to say, there was no reason or need to ask a question. However, the answer or partial answer to this question precisely says that we have to ask this question because how else do we explain the fact that it has been a year and something, since I asked this question for the first time and got the answer that I have commented here, therefore, the data of the answer were that there is an absolute non-balance of the national composition of the total employees, and especially the journalistic, editorial and management staff in these houses. I believe that this is a significant reason why the quality and overall state in these houses is not very well and that is what the employees themselves talked about. Furthermore, I would also remind myself that the obligation of the management of these houses to comply with the applicable laws and regulations in this country and to bring this issue into line, namely the national structure of employees and managers and journalists with the relevant legislation, which they have not done for a year. I don't really know if it makes sense and what way this is gonna work out. Here, I'll tell you now and the contents of this answer, this second part, so the answer, and the third part, I haven't got yet. So in BHRT the condition is bad, not balanced especially to the damage of Hrvat. So, the Hrvat in this house, there's about 12% of these figures here. You'll agree that this is significant under that number and... which should be. So here are the answers, interestingly, that a significant number or percentage of those who have declared that they are not representatives of one, another or third people but of another commitment, is again their right, however, when it is recalculated, it is again obtained that sufficient national balance has not been reached among the employees and especially among the management staff, journalists and editors. This is what I'm going to say to someone again that it might not matter, but I'm going to repeat that this is very thoughtful. It is an important, therefore, segment of our public, it is about electronic media being financed from public funds and it is very important to respect the relevant provisions of the Constitution and the law and to achieve here this desired and sought balance. I don't know what other way is, but to invite the responsible ones to be responsible. So, that the responsible from these houses be responsible. I expect that the data from the RTV RS will be better than the ones that were a year ago and I will repeat here in the end that the data from two houses so RTVBiH and FBiH are not a bit or very little better than those a year ago. I think it's been a very reasonable year to really solve this issue in a satisfactory way, so that in the future, it's unnecessary to ask such a question. As long as there's such a imbalance, I think we're all bound to run the spell together and we're called and we are the House of Peoples, and this is a matter of particular importance that should be focused on the interests of the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5238	Thank you, Mr. Jukić. I'd beg that, I didn't understand whether you were satisfied with the answer or not?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5239	The answer isn't complete. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5240	So the answer isn't a complete answer. Thank you very much. We have Mr. Lim now, and he also has two answers. Mr. Limov, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5241	Thank you, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents, Madam Representatives and fellow MPs, distinguished representatives of public information funds, the Council of Ministers and the International Community, I have received two answers to my two questions concerning what has been done with regard to the protection of the indigenous Bosnian-Herzegovina tobacco variety, the Herzegovician plain, and the second question was what has been done in relation to the negotiations and the preparation of certain procedures relating to the signing of the Agreement between BiH and Europol. From the answers I have received, it is evident that appropriate efforts are being made, I hope that both of these are appropriate efforts and that these issues are successfully resolved in the function of, above all, the interests of the state of BiH, and that, in this segment, I must indeed say, this time, unlike all of them, almost all of the situations so far, that I am satisfied with the answer and that, of course, I expect that the relevant institutions will continue in this sense and that we will ultimately have our sort of tobacco, Herzegovic plain and on the other hand, that we will have signed, at least for the beginning of this strategic agreement with Europol, and that the finals will be in terms of signing an operational agreement and, of course, that we will sign the relevant Europol Convention, of course, when they get the conditions, and that includes our entry into the EU. I want to believe that if we're going to experience this far before people who aren't willing to, then I expect that the relevant institutions will continue to work. Thank you very much. It's rare that I'm satisfied but there are obvious situations like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5242	Thank you very much. He's looking forward to it. So, please fellow delegates, any new delegate questions? If there's a new delegate question, Mr. Tomislav Limof, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5243	Thank you so much for giving me a chance right away. So, I want to take this opportunity to ask two envoys questions, which relate to our earlier activity. So, my first question to the Council of Ministers, is what did the Council of Ministers and other relevant BiH institutions take to the realization of the conclusions of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in connection with the fate of children, the protégé of the Children's Home of Ljubica Ivezić, taken from Sarajevo in 1992 to Italy? And the second question is, have the findings taken into account the failures of our officials and officials and whether the procedure for determining the working, disciplinary, political and criminal responsibilities of those whose actions or not to do the mentioned children has been permanently lost to BiH? Thank you very much. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5244	Thank you very much. Is there more? Here's Mr. Jukić, here's Velimir.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5245	My question, actually two questions or one, it doesn't matter, with one sub-question and one initiative. It concerns the quality and price of using internet services in BiH space. So a question or questions and initiatives were addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers and the Communications Regulatory Agency. Why are the prices of using internet services in BiH so high, unequal with TK operators in BiH? So, why are discounts for certain categories of consumers, students, school children, regular students and others, relatively and absolutely small and thus detimulative for the greater use of internet services by these users? Such an Internet service price policy is contrary to the generalized definition of all in BiH that we will advocate the development of information, internalisation and the construction of a knowledge society. The initiative, I propose that the BiH Council of Ministers consider these issues seriously and studioically, and take all necessary actions and activities to ensure better quality, greater availability and cheaper use of internet services, especially for categories of students, students and other users.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5246	Thank you, Mr. Jukić. Mrs. Ruža ASTojanović, please here's ruža, so then, I know you're a gentleman. If I'd given you my word, you'd have said Ruža.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5247	I welcome all those present and I would welcome the opportunity, since the Minister here is present to ask why the 2006 budget is so late, why is it not referred to the parliamentary procedure in accordance with the Law on the financing of BiH institutions and which says it should have been addressed by 1.11.2005 and how will this affect the financing of institutions and the work and implementation of VAT?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5248	Thank you very much. Mr Filipović answered the question. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5249	Thank you for your word. I welcome the chairman and all present. So I'm going to ask a question to the Council of Ministers in terms of why there is no answer to my asked question at the 50th session of the House of Peoples and in terms of negotiators and negotiating teams?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5250	Thank you very much, Mr. Filipović. Mr. Boško Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5251	Thank you, Chairman. I'll ask you instead of the delegate question, Mr. Genjac, if you'll be kind please, I've listened to all of you, not you. Instead of the delegate question, I will take advantage of the business opportunity and, in the direction of the initiative, I would like to express a series of praises, and I am quite sure that you will agree with me, to certain activities of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat, to point out the reconstruction of Parliament's internal space, from the refreshment of artistic paintings, flowers, etc., I think that those who rarely come to Parliament, I think it is sweeter for them to enter Parliament now, because they are entering a finely decorated space. We had a chance to see, and already on a few occasions we were in a large hall that was arranged and arranged. You've seen from the inside that the views that are intended for the presentation of gifts have been obtained, especially I look forward to that we've received a lot of gifts in front of this Military Commission, so we're no longer in position, we don't need to bring those presents home anymore, I think we have a place to put them off. A project has also been Realizovan to join the draft trainees of the Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat. Namely, I have information that they were admitted to 18, by asking me to see the national structure, but it is very commendable to see these young people here helping our services. I was also involved in another activity conducted by this secretariat, which is an open parliament in co-operation with youth organisations and in co-operation with the OSC mission. I think it was a very high-quality project and it caused interest and BH Television and Free Europe Programme, a number of colleagues participated in this project and here, I have information that I will be generously supporting is that this secretariat is running the activity of setting up a restaurant for MPs, that I am not talking about how ugly we felt down there, etc. Especially when colleagues from other parliaments come to us, we take them to a working mess, etc. and I think there are activities and we will support the restoration of the facade on the Parliament building, etc. etc. So, as part of the delegation's question, I wanted to express a series of praises, and it's likely that this secretariat will be in its own affairs and should do so, but in any case, they need to be supported in some of the following activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5252	Thank you, Boško. I think all delegates can safely join this Bosk position, especially if, this Parliament and its arrangement, this building has been going since the moment we took care of the building, it is very important to stress, that our joint services have, let's say, made this place a little more beautiful. Mr. Jukić, please. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5253	I apologize, but this question is now completely unrelated to those of my previous two questions and initiative. True, I could have taken the opportunity to say the same question. So, the question I refer to the Council of Ministers, what have they done and where have the activities come from in the drafting of the Law on Payments in BiH institutions? So, using the users of the BiH institution's budget? In accordance with one of our conclusions from one of our sessions, here I am now not prepared to quote when, but of course later I can find it, we have concluded here that we are going to do a certain job, not to elaborate here, after the Council of Ministers has done the Law on the Payments of Customers of the BiH Institutions. So, the question, what has the Council of Ministers done and more specifically, when will this law come into parliamentary procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5254	Thank you very much, Mr. Jukić. I'm not, Mr Filipović, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5255	Thank you very much for the extra word. So, invited by these activities that I have heard what the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly is doing, so I would welcome such activities, and it's good to hear here that things are moving in that direction, and we've always had some complaints about a lot of things, not to mention the details. So I express my gratitude that it is such a pleasure, that here it is definitely and that this kitchen has been established and that it has definitely moved in and pork into this Parliament. It's something we've missed when our guests come and when we want it and it's better food and everything we want is getting. I would love to talk about parliamentary, therefore, that mile of civil servants within the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly, to take one more matter into account. So that's not a question to the Council of Ministers, to the institutions, but to us here and to those who serve us. So, Secretary of the House, Secretary of the Joint Service, to be accounted for in the constitutional category of language in this country, in accordance with the Constitution, and to put a version of the Croatian language on this display, the oval, I don't know what you call it anymore. I ask you, this is Parliament, so this is the House of Peoples, and if we respect it anywhere, therefore, language equality, then we will respect it here. I respect the Cyrillic, I respect the Latin, I respect Bosnian, I respect the Serbian language, but I pray that here and the presence and vote, we have this in the version of my native language, so I am telling you very openly, very clearly in the name of the Croatian Club in the House of Nature.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5256	Thank you very much, Mr. Filipović. Mr. Secretary would like to say something about this right now, something.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5257	Now, in view of that, they're having conversations about this great hall, where they're also going to have to do some things, let's say technically to sort out this computer and that. At the same time, I raised that question and asked that those experts, when they came, as far as I know from Germany, when they came to simply program it, to be in all three languages, to be respected and to have 10 written. I'll lie real, when it's supposed to be, maybe in the first or second month. That's what I was told.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5258	Thank you very much. I think we're done, if you agree with the new delegates' questions and I didn't hear Ružo, so it's hard for her to ask, and secondly, you could ask these OHR guys what they delivered late and maybe they'd get an answer before they did because they're not doing anything about themselves, and that's what we're going to do Ružo writing, yes, but here's what we're going to do, are we going to wait for the minister? Let's get on with it, and we'll ask the minister to answer when she gets here. The second item of the agenda is Ad.2. A record from the 51st session of the House of Peoples, please, does it have any observations on the record? There isn't. I'm putting up for the adoption of the minutes. Please vote now. So we accept the minutes unanimously. Thank you. The third item of the agenda is Ad.3. A report by the Joint Commission on the efforts of both homes to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on the Roads of BiH You have received a report from this joint commission. The House of Representatives has declared and adopted this report and I am putting, if there are no objections, putting this report to the vote. Please vote now. So adopted unanimously. The fourth item of the agenda is, Mr. Čengić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, honourable College, distinguished colleagues, members of the House, representatives of the Council of Ministers, the international community, the media, the others, we have already completed this item of the agenda, but I would just like to warn you that, according to the analysis, there are certain issues related to this law that have been agreed, which are not entirely in accordance with some other laws, when it comes to the Law on Infringements and others. And, given that this law has been passed by us today, it has been accepted at the House of Representatives, but the application will go six months from now, so from the beginning of July, there will probably be a need for maybe one of the two amendments that will bring these issues into line now in a certain contradiction. Well, here, I just want to introduce my colleagues. We have plenty of time, I think it's important that we adopted this text in this agreed, we passed this law in this harmonised text, but it's likely that these few things will be needed later by amendments because it's impossible to solve differently. On the other hand, we have plenty of time, and if that happens, don't be surprised by that fact. Otherwise, I think that regardless of these two things that need to be fixed, the law is very good and it's good that we've come to it. Thank you. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5260	Thank you very much Mr. Čengić, thank you for this remark. I find that by adopting this report, we also passed the law that treated this report. It's the fourth item of the agenda, Add.4. The Commission's report to the House of People's College on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of delegate Ante Spajić, Osman Brk, and on the Decision on the adoption of the Agreement on the restructuring of police structures in BiH You have received the Report from the College of the People's House. The Commission has not reached agreement. Now in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, we vote in the second round. Under Article 60, in order for the decision to be adopted, it must not be taken by entity 2/3 or more votes against. We only plead on entities. First, delegates from Republika Srpska vote. Please vote now. Under Article 60, in order for the decision to be adopted, it must not be taken by entity 2/3 or more votes against. So with 1/3 of the entity votes in. The Commission's report to the People's House on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Ante Spajić and Osman Brk, concerning the adoption of the BiH Police Structures Restructure Agreement. So, restructuring police structures in BiH. Thank you very much. Are we? So the conclusions weren't adopted. We don't need this rest. Someone made a mistake, please forgive me, so there's no confusion it'll be congratulations to repeat the vote. Please, only from Republika Srpska to vote MPs. Vote now. Vote and when we vote, I'll tell you. So, I mean, thank you very much. I don't think we should go further to the vote because the conclusions have not been drawn. Thank you very much. So we won't vote. Fifth, Ad.5. The Commission's request for financial and administrative affairs, please colleagues, the fifth item of the agenda, is Ad.5. A request from the Commission for Financial and Administrative Affairs of the People's House to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on State Service in the Institutions of BiH following an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples in accordance with Article 100(2). Rules of Procedure, the House shall decide on a request for consideration of the law, according to this article, after the debate. The House of Representatives adopted zkon by emergency procedure. Amendments are being invested, amendments are not being invested. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? I can't see, Rose. Here you go, 12.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5261	It is only an amendment of one member, to bring into an equal position and civil servants, that is, in order to carry out only a supplement, that is, in the event of death, to add disease or severe disability. Since that member has already been inserted into the drug law on working in institutions and we've already agreed to these regulations.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5262	Thank you very much, Mrs. ruža. Here you have heard the clarification and the Commission's position. I'm putting this to a vote. First, we vote on whether or not we will consider the law in accordance with Article 100. Please vote now. We've got someone who hasn't voted, Mr. Jukić will you, it's fine, we unanimously adopted to go after a member, by emergency procedure, by article 100. I'm opening a debate on the law. Any word from anyone? So no one's answering for a word. Now we're voting on the law. Please vote now. So the law was passed unanimously. It's the sixth point, Ad.6. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Security Agency of BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of the People are being debated, whether the Law will be considered in a shortened manner. The House of Representatives adopted the proposal to consider the draft law under a shortened procedure. Is anyone picking up? Nobody's answering. Please let us vote on the procedure. Now. Therefore, the requirement for the Law to be considered by a shortened procedure was adopted unanimously. Point 7., Ad. 7. A proposal for a law on the protection of personal data You've received the law as a report from the competent commission. The Commission accepted the text of the proposal for a law in the proposed text. The House of Representatives passed the Law in its first reading. This is the first reading of the Law, Article 90. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the Law is based. Is anyone picking up? Nobody's answering. Please vote, please welcome Filipović, I'm sorry. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5263	.... to the Commission, it was on the Constitutional and Legal Commission that the law was considered. We suggest that the House accept it in the first reading, to open the second reading, since there was no amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5264	Thank you very much. So let's go to the Commission's proposal, vote on this law in the first reading. Please vote now. So we passed the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data in the first reading. President of the Commission, Mr Filipović suggested, since there were no amendments to the text of this law, that we adopt it in another reading. I'm putting the proposal on the table. Thank you, yes, is anyone answering for an argument? So, please, let's vote on whether or not we're going to pass this law in a second reading. Vote now. So we're unanimous here, too. We are going to make a statement on the Law on the Protection of Personal Data and in the second reading. Is anyone picking up? Mr. Čengić, did you get that? No, you're not. Thank you very much. I'm setting up a law to seal personal data for a vote. Please, who's in, vote now. So what this is, these are some mistakes. 12 for one abstention. Thank you very much. So we passed the Personal Data Protection Act. Mr. Genjac, here you go, and in the second reading it's you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5265	We, therefore, adopted the Law in the second reading, which in the House of Representatives, for the sake of one amendment, which, the eye has yet to comply with, has not completed the complete procedure. Since we are at the end of the calendar year, because we are in front of January 25th when the first round of negotiations between our negotiating team and the European Commission on Stabilisation and Association begins and then one stage after which a really large number of laws will be in front of this Parliament, I think we should do everything here to make sure that the maximum jobs that are here before us, as quickly as possible, complete. In doing so, I think it would be a good idea today to appoint a committee for reconciliation, to say so, to be prepared around this law and similar laws that are passed on to the House of Peoples before, or today, and before the House of Representatives for the reason that then we should wait for the House of Representatives to adopt these laws, so that they can be named, so that we can appoint our home to the Commission, so for some, maybe two months, that the commission works and that it ends. And in this way, our commission would be ready and when it was adopted at the House of Representatives, they would name it after the House of Representatives session, so we could end those laws. 14 For these reasons, I suggest that in these situations we propose a committee for reconciliation and that they wait. There'll probably be a difference at least tiny ones. If it doesn't make any difference, there's no problem, the commission won't do any work, but it'll be ready. So, I suggest we appoint a committee to coordinate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5266	Thank you very much. Here I am going to be free to ask the clubs for proposals for members of the commission. Mr. Genjac in front of the Bosniak club, I suggest Mr. Genjac. Thank you very much. In front of Croatian club, Croatian representatives, we propose, Ante go ahead
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5267	Mr Tomislav Limov
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5268	Mr Tomislav Limov. In front of the order of the Serbian people,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5269	Mr. Đoko Pajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5270	Mr. Đoko Pajić. We heard the candidates. I put it to a vote, the composition of the commission, Genjac, Limov, Mr. Pajić. Please vote now. Vote for this committee, Halid. Thank you very much, unanimously. Congratulations to the board members, 12 for, 1 abstention. It's the eighth item of the agenda, Add.8. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH has given you the Law, as a report from the competent commission. The Commission accepted the text of the draft law in the proposed text. The House of Representatives passed the Law in the first and second readings in the proposed text. This is the first reading. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the Law is based. And, please, I'm putting it on the table. Mr Filipović,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5271	Thank you very much for your word. So, very briefly, in the same way, the Commission accepted, proposing to the House to accept it in the first reading, to open the second reading, there was no amendment. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5272	Thank you, Mr. Filipović. Here's Mr. Jukić having a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5273	Well, this change, the addition is very, very logical. Although I'm not a lawyer, I see a great logic and justice, I'd say. So here's one of the relatively strict provisions, it's easing. So, now they're going to be able to in these courts that are here, this supplement, also appoint lawyers with a passed judicial trial without experience of 3 years or 5, as it used to be. Because the question arises, how will someone have, somewhere, be employed if in any court, or in all courts, they say, that they must have experience of not knowing how many years. So it was one illogical thing, it would never be able, so where would it get that experience? He can't go anywhere. So this is the removal of one thought, the mistakes that were so on. Absolutely this is correct and okay. And how fortunate that there will be such repairs in the future as little as possible and that there will be solutions as logical as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5274	Thank you very much. I understand Mr. Jukić's discussion, in support of the Commission's proposal. And, please, is there any more suggestions, any more debaters? There isn't. Thank you very much. We vote for the law in first reading. Please vote now. So the law was unanimously adopted in the first reading. Since we have, we suggest that today, we adopt, we propose to hold a debate at today's session in another reading. We've heard the discussions, I think they're valid. I don't know if anyone else is picking up? He's not answering. Please vote if we're going to vote on the law of another reading. Vote now. So we adopted a second reading, unanimously given that the amendment to the bill was not there. I'm putting on, or yes, I don't think there's any need to argue. I put the law to the vote. Who's in favour, vote now. Please, I said vote, don't vote. Okay, I'm sorry. So we unanimously passed the Law on the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH. It's the ninth item of the agenda, Add.9. Proposal for a law on consumer protection for Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading, you received the Law as a report from the competent commission. The Commission accepted the text of the proposal for a law in the proposed text. The House of Representatives passed the Law in its first reading. 16 I pray, is there any need for this committee to come out with a view? So the Commission's proposal is the same as the previous two. The Commission proposes to adopt this in the first reading and is there any further discussion? There isn't. Please vote now. Thank you very much. This is unanimous. There was a proposal from the Commission, if I understand correctly that we are going to another reading, there were no amendments, everything is fine, I think. Please vote, are we going to another reading? Now. Thank you very much. Still unanimous, we're a very expedient team. Thank you very much. Please, since there have been no amendments to this law, I don't think there's any need to go further into debate, to be effective, so I'm asking you to vote on the law. Who's in favour, please vote, now. So we passed this law unanimously. Thank you, colleagues. Mr. Genjac,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5275	Same reason, same argument, and I suggest Mr. Pamuk immediately.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5276	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. In front of the Bosniak people, I propose Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5277	No, no, it's almost over.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5278	Not enabled, not registered electronically
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5279	Okay, great, it's all over for all of this, right? Thank you very much. Is it the same team? I won't be here, but. Thank you very much. Here is Mr Pamuk in front of the Bošnjak, in front of the Hrvat Mr Ante Spajić and in front of the Serbian people, while the Hrvat agree, I hope he will,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5280	Ms. Ruža Stojanović
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5281	Mrs. Ruža Stojanović, I am pleased. In front of the Croatian people. He says Limov's too much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5282	Well, then, Mr. Jukić. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5283	So, Mr. Jukić. Thank you very much. The commission composed of Pamuk, Stojanović, Jukić. Please vote for the commission. Here you go, now. Thank you very much, so unanimously we're all in. Thank you very much. The tenth item of the agenda, Add.10. Proposal for a law on indirect taxation management, first reading, you received the Law as a report from the competent commission. The Commission adopted 27 amendments that have become an integral part of the text of this law. The House of Representatives passed the Law in the first and second readings of 27 amendments. This is the first reading of the law. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the Law was established. Is anyone picking up? Here, do we have attitudes. Mrs. ruža,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5284	Just in front of the competent commission, to say that we were considering this law yesterday, that we supported the principles of the law and that we adopted 27 amendments adopted at the House of Representatives, so that the text should be the same as.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5285	Thank you very much. We heard the President of the Commission. No one's answering, as far as I can tell. I'm putting this law on the record in the first reading. Please vote now. So we unanimously passed the Law in our first reading. I suggest that at today's session we hold a debate and in a second reading, we vote. Let's discuss it in a second reading. Please vote now. So we adopted this unanimously, too, given how we said that our commission agreed on the principle of the amendment and adopted the amendments. So there's no need for further discussion. Everything that could change the law is in line. And I'm putting the law to the vote in the second reading. Please vote now. So we unanimously passed the Law on the Administration of Direct Taxation. The law was therefore adopted in the same text as the House of Representatives. Thank you very much. It's the 18th point of the agenda, Add.11. Proposal for a law on the revision of BiH institutions, first reading, you received the Law as well as a report from the committee in charge. The Commission adopted 9 amendments that became an integral part of the text of the Law. The House of Representatives passed the Law in its first reading. This is the first reading of the law, first there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. Does the Commission have any?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5286	As a competent commission, we passed the 9-amendments Act, which are not identical to the amendments that have passed at least the commission phase and the part yesterday that was at the House of Representatives, so that
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5287	So there will be a need for alignment.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5288	There will be a need to form a commission here, and here you have received a full report from the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5289	Thank you very much. Is anyone else picking up? Thank you. We're voting on the law in first reading. Please vote now. Halid, we vote. Thank you very much, so it'll be unanimous again. There's something going on here on this three-way with us. 12, unanimous. So we passed this law in the first reading unanimously. The Commission's proposal is to go to the adoption of the law in the second reading. The amendments were agreed, made this one, we had amendments and we inserted them into the text of the law. So there were no other amendments except those amendments. Please, is anyone answering for an argument? I mean, here you go to Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5290	..I would like to ask, therefore, that there is one illogicality here in Amendment V, which the Commission has accepted, on Article 24, the appointment of the Court of Auditors and the Vice-General’s Auditor-General. The first, in the basic text, shall be written by the Director-General and the Deputy Director-General appointed by Parliament, so it would be precise to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, on a proposal from the Bureau, based on a ranking list of candidates prepared by the Commission for the election referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article. In the amendment that amends this article, it corrects it in a vague way. He says, the general auditor and vice-general auditor is appointed by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, so the full name of the institution has been corrected, and now says, on the Commission's proposal for a selection in paragraph 4. of this article. This article shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union in the Official Journal of the European Union and in the Official Journal of the European Union. So, an amendment that has nothing to do with this, just in terms of meaning, and the Presidency has been expelled as a proposing, and a Commission which is not in the law has been put in place. If we accept, therefore, a bad amendment, I have read what it says in the basic text, so I suggest that if we go, we open another reading, and if we make a statement about the amendments, that we reject this unsuspecting amendment and keep the basic text in the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5291	Well, we voted on the first reading and we adopted it, only now we're going from voting to second reading. This is a discussion. I think it's great, Mr. Genjac. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5292	You're killing this amendment, right? You are amending this amendment in accordance with Article 89.3.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5293	The rose may withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5294	He can't. The Commission adopted it. Let Mr. Filipović vote, the amendment acts on the commission's report.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5295	In fact, a new item has been inserted into the amendment, so there has been a misunderstanding, so it is thought that when a new member is watched as it seems with all the adopted views and the full amendment adopted to this article, the matter becomes clear. Let's just hang on to it, then. In Article 24, the new item 3 is added – (departed from the microphone, weakly heard) all the administrators.... tasks for.... are carried out by the Office of Audit.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5296	Please Halid, Filipović has acted on the Commission's report on this amendment, we will adopt, can we, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5297	So, I'd like you to, I'm sorry,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5298	Please take a little bit of this, 20.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5299	If there's anyone here from the authorized therefore, a representative of the Council of Ministers, I'd like to be involved in this rapture, if it considers it necessary and if anything is unclear in what I'm noticing. Therefore, I note that the Group of Amendments has been very consistently drawn up and accepted on the committee responsible, but when it comes to Amendment V and when it comes to who it proposes in Article 24 of the basic text, the first paragraph states that Parliament is doing so, appoints the Auditor-General and his alternate to the proposal of the Presidency. The amendment is working here so that this is also done by the Parliamentary Assembly on the Commission's proposal for the selection referred to in paragraph 4, and there is no commission here. And why, I ask, why, it is not more logical, to me, it is more logical not to throw the presidency out of this process and the process of appointing the auditor general and their deputies as proposing.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5300	Mr. Čengić answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5301	So maybe I didn't understand something, but my question is very simple. On the basis of what can Mr Filipović possibly have an amendment, if so, did he have an amendment like he is proposing now on the Commission and renewing it? If it isn't, I don't see the basis for having an amendment. So that's number one. Number two, I have the impression that this is a technical confusion, not a fundamental change, because I think the solution is not to include the Presidency in the line, in a good solution, is only a question of error in calling on a member in relation to that commission. However, just a little bit, so I repeat one more time, I don't understand how, did Mr Filipović have an amendment, which he now proposes to the Commission? If he's not, I don't know how he can,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5302	Please, please just a little yes, Mr. Filipović,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5303	I listened to a carefully respected colleague named Čengić. The question was, where did I get the amendment in my hand? I received the amendment as well as all of you, so these are the amendments that were accepted on our respective competent commission, which was signed by the distinguished representative Ruža Stojanović. It's pampered, so at office 22 today, and I got on the table waiting for it. So I did nothing, and so I compared that amendment to Article 24 with the basic text and found that there was an illogicality here. This amendment is illogical to accept this. The basic text is better, clearer, because there is no paragraph 4. where the selection committee is spoken of. I'd like someone to tell me where this commission is?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5304	Please, Mr. 21.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5305	But it can't be, you see, we're opening now. So someone did, I'm sorry. Now let's move on. Position 3. Station 4. That's right. It would then be an administrative commission for professional affairs, i.e. the selection committee for the audit office. Wait a minute. This is what the new paragraph 3 reads in Article 24. And then the following is point 3. becomes point 4. So that's it, then. And now there's another illogicality. To get out of the game for such an important, significant, very important state function that this is done by the commission of this composition, and to get out of the game, so far it has been done by the Presidency. Why is this authority taken by the Presidency? The question is also very clear why it is so vaguely defined in the amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5306	Thank you very much. Please, Vinko, you answered your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5307	I'd just try technically to clarify, and that dilemma whether to take the presidency that jurisdiction or not to take, I wouldn't. With this amendment V, this position of Article 3 of the 24th Act becomes Article 4 so that I should consider Article 3. The election law says the election commission is appointed by Parliament and consists of six members. So the amendment speaks of this committee that's in the membership, in paragraph 3. The electoral law, but by amendment it became position 4 and therefore is referred to as point 4. Technically speaking.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5308	Thank you very much. I understand that now. We did, we called the numbers from the amendment, not the law, and then we did, and when one text was made, then we made a little mistake. Please, watch this one, I want it to be clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5309	So once again, I've opened up, I've answered, it's on, so I've opened the question and this amendment to discuss whether he's acceptable because he's been kicked out of the game Presidency as a proposal for chief auditor and his deputies.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5310	Okay. So the point is to exclude Mr Filipović's presidency and include another body. That's the point, and this is the rest. Mr. Genjac answered for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5311	I hope it's technically clear now. The position of the 1st original text speaks of a committee of parliament within the meaning of 22
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5312	Please, please. A genius a little louder, and please a little quiet. Ma'am, please, we're gonna turn the stories down a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5313	In point 1 mentions the commission,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5314	No, you, you're a lady, you're not a lady.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5315	Please, in the position of the first original text, introduce the concept of a committee of parliament whose role is to rank the list of candidates and prepare it for the election, and the election is held by the Parliamentary Assembly. In the third paragraph of the original text, the Commission shall describe what is the matter and in the end of the amendments to this amendment, that position 3 becomes position 4 and then the amendment shall be called upon by the Commission referred to in Article 4 and I think that is technically correct. The Commission's commitment is to accept this amendment, that the commission is therefore preparing itself to do its jobs, and that Parliament should make a choice and exclude the presidency is a matter of the commission. I, as far as I am concerned, am not a member of the commission, but I think that the commission has done well because, since the final word at the Parliamentary Assembly is the final word, and since the Commission is preparing for the ranking of procedures with the Presidency in several previous institutions has shown that this procedure in terms of returning the proposal, delivering the proposal, what is the first proposal, and when it happens to have been rejected at the Parliamentary Assembly again, the procedure in several institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina has shown that it has taken some 6 or 7 months, depending on the case-to-case situation, and in the end nothing has been gained in particular, because in the end, the Parliamentary Assembly gives the floor. So, as far as I'm concerned, I'm, I'm aware of this intensity and I don't think it's a good thing this is a solution that's been accepted on the committee, and the commission has accepted it. We now have this, this situation, this amendment and this law that came from the commission could be amended by proposing amendments that dispute the amendments adopted, but within a time limit prescribed before the beginning of the 48-hour session. So we don't have conditions, I think we're considering the issue of amendments that have been adopted. No amendment has been proposed that has challenged the amendments adopted on the Commission, or that has renewed the unaccepted amendments on the Commission and I suggest that we move on, therefore, to a statement on the law in the second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5316	We need to see if we can discuss it in another reading. We opened the debate. We did, I'm sorry. Okay. Mr. Čengić,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5317	So, my question for the first time about this was just procedural, does anyone at this time have the elements to challenge this amendment that was accepted on the commission? 23 In my understanding, there are no elements to it, procedural elements. And in that sense, I'm not a lawyer, but I think so. Secondly, more importantly, in my opinion, I think what else I think is more important is the following. Exclusion from the Presidency from this procedure is likely to take precedences in terms of cutting time, etc. and in no way damages the position of neither the citizens nor the entities, nor the people, nor the political parties. And here I want my colleague Ilija to listen to me, so if we need to talk about it. So, all those represented today in the Presidency as it looks today and in the structure of the predsjedištvo as it is elected under the law that is in force here today, all of them are members of the Parliamentary Assembly and all of them will take a position, even in this commission that prepares proposals with insurance, which is for me personally, so respecting all one positive achievement that the opposition of 6 members has the right to two if I understand it well. Therefore, in this regard both the position and the opposition are in a position to participate in the commission, and lastly there is no illogicalness in the fact that the proposals for the Parliamentary Assembly are being prepared by its committee, because the final decision is certainly made by the Parliamentary Assembly. So in this sense, I do not think that this is a solution and in which way it is disputed by certain definitions, certain positions of equality between citizens, peoples, positions of constitutional, entity position etc. And it is definitely a procedure that is simpler, easier and in this sense respecting what my colleague Filipović said, I think that we could still support this solution in a formal sense, except for this, the debate on the procedure and thus come into the position that we have the law as adopted by the Commission today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5318	Thank you very much. Mr Filipović answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5319	Thank you very much for your word. So I have to correct the false allegations of a distinguished colleague, Čengić. I didn't act as an amendment. I didn't make any amendments. I asked one question and opened it, asked others to take part in the debate on why the commission came in the process of proposing instead of the presidency. I still don't think so, and I don't agree with the point Mr. Genjac put out that presidency is this brake character, that brake body, that body that's pulling us around and doing nothing, and it doesn't suggest anything. I think that's exactly why I'm asking this body that would be more rational and more functional and fair than any commission that's been proposed. But it's a matter of decision. So I am fully aware that I should have acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure 24 hours before the debate. So I know in my business that I have no right to submit amendments, nor have I tolerated them, but I have asked a question. It's that rectification of the wrong allegation. In the future, follow exactly what I'm saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5320	I understand the discussion, I understand the discussion and the insistence of Mr Filipović to fix as much as possible. And this is just one discussion to think about. Mr. Limov answered. Here you go, Mr. Limov. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5321	With respect to what my colleague Filipović was talking about, I reported first of all to say that after this in technical terms, it is now all clear and I want to say that I support the commitment of our commission, I believe that this is on the trail of Parliament's affirmation and, given my political commitment to believe that we should otherwise strive for affirmation and be a country of parliamentary democracy. I really think that, in this sense, it is a very good solution that our commission is proposing to us and I appreciate that given the nature of the auditors, or audit as an institution, if she were outside I would say the orbits of the executive authority that it is just right for Parliament to take a position on this and have what they say...
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5322	Thank you very much, Mr. Limov. I'm asking Genjac Gentleman to come, please. Here you go, Genjac. Please let us, please, be a little efficient, because we need to learn for these 150 laws a month in the next period. [[Common discussion]] Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5323	I would ask, I would really ask you to provide us with the conditions to speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5324	Please, Mr. Genjac asked me to make sure he could speak and that you could all hear him. That he can speak I can speak to him, but that you all hear him, you must provide him with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5325	Namely, I only have one correction to the wrong assumption. Namely, my colleague Filipović quoted me and interpreted me as saying that our presidency is a brake mechanism, that nothing works etc. I would never really think that. He may have understood it that way, but on several occasions our presidency has proposed something so far, so Parliament refuses it, so until it returns to the presidency in a second attempt there is a loss of that time. And I wouldn't really think our presidency was doing anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5326	No, that's great. Thank you very much. Mrs. Stojanović answered for the floor. All praises to the Presidency, Mr. Halida.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5327	I just need to say that the basic text of the law provided for a commission appointed by this Parliament. No one's ever done anything like that. The commission remains 25, with a distinction that was provided for the commission to send its proposal, i.e. a ranking list to the Presidency, and the Bureau then elects three auditors, or a deputy auditor and delivers a statement to Parliament. In this procedure, I think it is much closer to the role of Parliament, however, and that this commission simply delivers a rank to Parliament, and a Parliament consisting of a lot more people than three people decide which one of their people will choose.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5328	All that seems to be happening. We will. So everything is, it's all reasonable. However, I beg you, we've exhausted the discussion as far as I can see, and now I'm going to put it to the vote. Are we the law in the second reading? Who's in favor of going to another reading? Please vote now. So there's no confusion, I don't remember putting that on. Let's do it again. Recurring is the mother of knowledge you know. Let's be clear that someone can't make an observation. Thank you very much. So it seems unanimous. Here we have exhausted the debate. We discussed it. I'm begging you. Please. One abstention. I'm asking you to. Please. - 13 for one abstention. I beg you that now, here we have heard the discussion, we have had the opportunity to hear the thoughts, I ask you to vote on the law. Please vote now. - So a unanimous law on the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted. So we have some differences in homes. Please choose a commission. Halid, you're suggesting. Here you go, Mr. Hasan.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5329	So on behalf of the Bosniak Club, I suggest Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5330	So we have Halid Genjac on behalf of the Bošnjak. In the name of the Hrvat. I didn't hear. Branko Zrno. In the name of the Srbin. They hurt.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5331	I'm having second thoughts between two quality proposals. Mr. Goran Milojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5332	Thank you very much. So Genjac, Zrno, Milojević is the composition of the commission. 26 Please vote for the commission. Who's in? Thank you very much. - The Commission was adopted with 11 against and 1 against. He was against Mr. Milojević, so we could arm him up a little bit. The 12th item of the agenda is Ad.12. A proposal for Bosnia and Herzegovina's pardon law, first reading, you received the law as well as a report from the competent commission. The Commission accepted the text of the proposal for a law in the proposed text. The House of Representatives passed the law in the first and second readings in the proposed text. This is the first law reading. There is a debate on the necessity and principles that the law is based on. Is anyone picking up? Mr Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5333	I thank you for your word. So very briefly. There was no amendment. We suggest that it be adopted in the first reading and that you open a second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5334	Thank you very much. If there's no discussion, I'd put this proposal by the president of the commission to a vote. Who's in favor of adopting the law in our first reading? Please vote now. Thank you very much. - So we passed the law unanimously in our first reading. Let's follow the proposal of the President of the Commission. Who's in favor of discussing the law in the second reading? Please vote now. Thank you very much - 11 for, no one against, no one abstention, no excuse 10 for, no one against, no one abstention. Unanimity, since there were no amendments. I don't think there's a need for discussion will change things. I suggest we vote on the law and in the second reading, i.e. to adopt the Law on Compassionation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please vote now. Thank you very much. We unanimously passed the pardon law. The law was passed in an identical text as adopted by the House of Representatives. 27 The thirteenth agenda is Ad.13. Information on the state of completion of the Bosnia and Herzegovina State Border Service and internal control has been reported by the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The House of Representatives has accepted information for knowledge. I'm opening a debate on information. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Boško Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5335	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the committee responsible, the Joint Commission for Defence and Security, which, at its session of 18.12.2005, discussed, received information and addressed it to Parliament, and with a few conclusions in front of the Commission, we went to the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5336	Thank you very much, Mr. Šiljegović. Mr. Limov reporting for word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5337	This is going pretty well today, so I won't spend much time, but Mr. President, I appreciate that, by respecting what our commission said through its report, I have no objections, yet I want to take this opportunity to take advantage of and potential a few questions and do it more taxically without entering into the debate. I really don't understand why we don't bring this project to DGS once by the end of 2005. My colleague, Brka, has expressed dissatisfaction with certain answers to his questions, but in the context of this particular thinking, I really can't understand that in 2005, we still don't have 506 employees in DGS. What's the point? What's the point? And I think that, with one conclusion or one view, we should let those involved in this process know that we really should fill this out as soon as possible. That's one thing. And secondly, from the data I especially appreciate what is through internal control that was made within the DGS really has very indicative indicators. I ask my colleagues to pay attention, because we feel, first of all, one trend of dissatisfaction with the work of this service, so the first year we only had two performances, and in 2005 for the first six months it was 122. And bearing in mind the information given on a special page of this information, it is therefore quite clear that the installation of people in this service was indeed dramatic procedures and failures. There were even people who had been admitted without certification, and also the fact that out of the 572 officials against whom discipline proceedings were conducted for a serious violation of official duty 419 had been necessary. An appropriate disciplinary measure has been put in place. It's a really worrying fact, practically here every fifth was disciplined when we divide the number of employees. So 2000 divide into 419 is really, I support and let them continue, but at the same time it would be an obligation to recruit to say, or to complete the service itself to really care about who is being admitted. 28 It is therefore unacceptable that there were people who were admitted without APTF certification, it is unacceptable that those who had certificates were eliminated through responding processes based on the fact that they were committing certain even criminal acts. And in that sense, I think there should be a message to both this home and this parliamentary assembly in relation to the people involved in this procedure that they really need to be more responsible to approach the selection of these personnel. I'll remind you that we've had some really unkind things at the state border. It's not just that murder case, and it's really unacceptable that we didn't predict that when we establish these services, we necessarily build up a provision that will allow the brothers' medical examinations to be carried out and that we know that those people who are admitted and engaged have the appropriate commissions, because it's not for every institution necessary in the same way, but really specific, and it seems to me that this experience should also be used to build up some other services at the state level and a provision that will oblige them to, no matter what the employees take over, carry out medical checks and that at least we have this kind of confirmation of professional institutions that would guarantee that we have received healthy people. And not that when something happens then on, in my opinion, an unacceptable way we're going to justify why we did it, because I just think that it's a failure, I appreciate that we should do it both in relation to SIPU and in relation to OSU that in this respect we should go through the amendments and the addition of the law and that we would have medical checks, if anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5338	Thank you, Mr. Limov. All right. Mr. brkati, did you answer your word? Haso, did you answer? I'm sorry, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5339	I thank you, and I can't help but feel like I'm not saying something on this subject, because I've spoken before, and I think after these two papers that I have in my hands, my concern is greater than it was before I have them here in my hands. I'm going to comment on that, and even though I wasn't in the last session of the commission when you adopted it, I was on my way, but that's why I can't help but say what I mean. Namely, I'd just like to supplement Mr. Lim here as he just said. It says 572 officers, it's a disciplinary procedure and 227 for less. So it's not every fifth, but 799 people have broken, not to tell the law, so I'll tell the law, right? It's a very large number, a very large number. It's just not acceptable for me. Is that possible? I mean, is that even possible, and here's the information signed by the minister, that's possible. So that's something that's very indicative to me and I think there's a big responsibility on the first people of that service, a big responsibility. We know that they haven't had any there for a while, there's been trouble setting people up, etc., but that doesn't justify them at all. Those who were there do not justify them; these figures cannot justify them at all. That's one thing. The second thing, from this answer that I received today, which was signed by Director Vinko Dumanić, is said, I will quote, and then I will comment – In order for the results of this work to be better, it is thought that on DGS, it would be necessary to do the following in as soon as possible – identify the border line, mark the border line, it is all right to prevent places suitable for illegal crossing the state border. And now his comment, unfortunately DGS BiH is not the leading agency to realise the above-numbered needs, but are the same in the jurisdiction of other state authorities and bodies. 29 This under 3. I cannot accept his conclusion that it is not his jurisdiction to prevent places suitable for the illegal crossing of the state border. For me, that's his. If it wasn't his, which he didn't write here whose it was. I'll call in whose name it is that what he won't do for five years. Because you're watching something, there's no day, no day literally, that in the BiH media from the printers, to anyone else, there's not that this country is full of crime, that here from money laundering, from human trafficking, from all these negativity, I sometimes get the impression in the media that there's no worse country in the world than we are in those violations. Now, according to this answer that I received from the Director of DGS and from this report from our minister, I'm just more concerned about what's going to happen to us. I know there's a problem with the full staff, and it's all clear to me, but here in these answers I don't see the answers to what the solutions are. That's why I'm saying this. And I'm giving the invitation to both the Minister and the Council of Ministers and the DGS to simply know who's responsible for that and to advance it. I can't accept that after five years of being a DGS, we have a problem like this. As a citizen, I cannot accept it at all, and as a delegate in this home of the people, I cannot be calm about it. And that's why I'm saying this, and this really isn't a delegate question, but it's an appeal to the authorities to bring order here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5340	Thank you, Mr. brkati. Mr. Čengić reporting for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5341	So first I'm glad that we have a chance to talk about this, that we have this agenda point, that we have this information, and basically I accept everything my predecessors have said about this subject, and instead of further discussion, I'm going to say the following. 1. The DGS in these conditions in which we live in Bosnia and Herzegovina plays a much greater role than it had, for example, some service that dealt with border surveillance in the previous system. Since we have a reduced number of soldiers, that their role and mission is not to control the border at all, that police also have no jurisdiction, so the only institution that cares about border protection is this particular service. Our borders, even though we are a country with a relatively small area, are very long, about 1600 and I don't know how many kilometers, scattered, very different terrain with relatively populated area along the border of the room side and with the situation that we have both at this home and at the joint even session of both homes discussed about the big problems that come from the black market, which are partly due to the fact that we don't have enough borders. On the other hand, we have the start of negotiations with the EU, which includes the implementation of obligations, including in the area which is the competence of the border service and finally we have, it is justified that all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina need to ease an extremely sharp visa regime towards us, primarily in the Schengen and EU countries. If we take a closer look at the remarks coming from the EU and read them, we will see that one of the serious objections is therefore insufficient quality of control of BiH's territory and borders compared to organised crime, drug trafficking, human trafficking, terrorism, etc. And as much as we build institutions within the BiH state, if an institution that cares about border protection does not function, obviously we have failed to fulfil our obligations. In this regard, bearing in mind the importance of this issue, bearing in mind the usefulness of the information, but also the lack of enough to take any position, I propose only one 30 conclusions, and this is – to agree to ask on, if not in January, to leave room to discuss it, at the latest in February, a special item of the agenda which would therefore, therefore, have a title – Activities and problems of the functioning of DGS. Which, therefore, would be complemented by proposals for activities and proposals for the obligations of all entities within the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And this debate would therefore have to result in very clear conclusions that would be taken over by the House of Nations, suggested by the Parlamentary Curiosity and other competent institutions. We can't be a serious negotiator if we don't realize our obligations, and obviously we can't fulfil our obligations if we still don't have a clear attitude, a list of obligations, and a clear attitude that needs to be done. For this reason, I believe that any further debate would be too long, unfounded, and I must say that there is no excuse for the report to continue to be a major problem of default with high personnel. Please, I claim that there are more than 100 at this hour, and I fear hundreds of highly qualified people who have graduated from the Faculty of Criminal Affairs in Sarajevo, at the Faculty of Law, other colleges that can meet these conditions, and who have no business at all, and we also find that the problem is to ensure high-level, high-experienced personnel. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. If it's a budget, if it's a selection procedure, if it's something third, I don't know what it is, but this is inadmissible. So absolutely inadmissible. In order not to continue the debate today, I think it is really necessary that we agree to organise a debate, if not at the end of the first, at the beginning of the second month where we get a comprehensive report. The presence of the Council of Ministers is no longer just a security minister, but probably also a minister of justice, representatives of some other institutions and a serious debate, and to draw conclusions that will obligate everything to ensure that this issue is properly settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5342	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Mr. Goran Milojević came forward for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5343	Dear colleagues, here is Mr. Čengić who took 90% of my discussion. I accept your apology, but I really want to underline the importance of what my predecessor was talking about and I fully support this proposal. I want to say this right away, because the issue of the current visa regime towards the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina is really a very important issue for Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I want to point out that, here you have all been in various contacts, this more perhaps because of the public that in all our bilateral, multilateral meetings with representatives of various countries, various international institutions we open this issue and every time, here we could see today in the means of information where representatives of the European Commission say the visa regime towards Bosnia and Herzegovina will be tempered when the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina are unscrupulous. So we must have quality personnel in this service and indeed selection according to the selection of personnel, this is what the gentleman, the esteemed colleague of LImov, has to be better, absolutely better in the next period. 31 And for me here, I can't and I can't say that are the defeating data on the number of people according to whom various disciplinary measures have been withdrawn in this institution and indeed once again, I repeat that the personnel are what the institutions do and in the coming period certainly the DGS in selecting people for this service must be kept much, much more accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5344	Thank you, Mr. Goran. Is there any more discussion? Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5345	I signed up a long time ago, but as usual, you signed me up.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5346	So listen, Zno, you always listen to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5347	You don't see me and it's for nothing.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5348	You're my friend.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5349	What's that? I'm just a grain, I think. I welcome you all, it seems that Mr. Čengić stole one good piece of what we were about to say, but as they answered, I thought he'd give up, but there's no point. I can say a few sentences about this information, because at the end of the day, this isn't a report. And so maybe our reaction to this information isn't and it can't be any more fuller, nor would I say more meaningful because this is just one dimension of this service and the dimension of its burning problems. We've been in that service, we've visited the field offices, and it's a much better condition, at least what you can see than what's written here, because we're familiar with this. We know what the problems are even though it doesn't seem to make any sense to discuss DGS as a separate, isolated part of the security system. The DGS is just part of our collective security system. It's a little far from us, because it's not around us, it's not SIP or OSA or any other service, but it's there far at the border and the first encounter of every man who comes to this country and ours and those who come from outside is a meeting with a DGS officer. And that is why I believe that at the level of our concern for the security sector and one of its segments must be done by all state institutions and this Parliament and especially by the state budget. Because what's happening today in the DGS can result in a failure to fill, but also from the depletion of existing personnel thanks to the particular material situation, the material status and the work obligations of the people working in this service. I won't elaborate any further. We can all compare the police officer, police officer in the city of Sarajevo and the one who works at the border. From working hours, working conditions and material status. Unfortunately, we have to talk about it because it's our state of affairs. Unfulfillment, absolute default. I don't know how much it is, but I mean when I talk about DGS as a whole, it's not even 40% of the total, please, 2200 at 12,000, forgive the 15 thousand Hungarian border guards, and we're here somewhere in the area. They are now protected from all sides, as they are EU members. 32 So here you have to talk, further, the problem that probably is a little present and here is the problem of the security sector's commitment. So DGS, or it must view itself as part of the system itself and thus behave and the problem is certainly in the existing internal organisation and this applies and this remark is directly addressed to the management of DGS, the internal organisation, the work organisation must change in this service. No one here talked about the work of state institutions, we mentioned them, who are in charge of the work of DGS. How many state commissions do we have? What we know about the work of state commissions when it comes to the final and defined borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina with its neighbours. For months, even years this commission has been working and no one has reported that the DGS will work in an interspace that is not ours and whether or not we will or won't know who it is. And they're here and they need to close what no commission has done, even though I don't know that any commission has sent anything and sent it to this parliament, and from other sources, I think that job simply stands. It's considered irrelevant. And that is why I am for a more complete not information, but for a report in which we will be able to look at a really difficult position of DGS and the security of our borders, but all of these problems that we too have to solve in this service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5350	Thank you, Mr. Zrn. Mr. Jukić answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5351	Here after 5-6 very contentious discussions and suggestions and reviews, I have only one thing left to conclude, so that there are no people here from, or at least I don't know that they are from DGS who might be able to give right away some answers to some questions. Excuse me, there's a DGS person. I think it would be a good idea to maybe take the opportunity, and we're also able to hear the answers to some questions, because there's really a lot of questions. I believe there are answers to these questions, because DGS is a young service. However, I will say one of my own, my grade, I expected that as time breaks out the problems will be less. But I'm not sure that's the case. Maybe it could be estimated that it's the other way around. And what kind of predictions do is they look at trends. I'm afraid and it's bad if the trend is that more and more, I don't know any unsolved cases, more complaints, more violations, more sanctions, so on. So that's what matters. And trouble will always be. Unfulfilled, an important question. However, I think that the issue should be resolved more quickly. Compared to our DGS with some other services, of course, it's a very good way to compare ourselves, see where we are, given the number of people, the number of violations, etc., and it's also known, it's also said that Bosnia and Herzegovina is on one of the already widely accepted defined roads, I don't know either drugs or what, trade some illicit substances, means or people, some goods, etc. etc. Well, here's to not knowing that there's still a gentleman here from the DGS representative, I think it would be good if we had an answer to some questions here. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5352	Thank you very much, Mr. Jukić. Here I am also joining Mr Jukić's view that for a few questions, or a little bit of support on your part this information, but since we will surely have a discussion somewhere in February and ask for a more serious discussion and a more serious DSS report and what we will decide today to have, I ask you to do something that you think is missing in this information, so that if you see and the interest of MPs there is to fix the situation in the DGS and here in a certain way improve that we do more...to do so. Thank you. Here you go. Please present yourself because. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5353	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am Vahid Alagić, Deputy Director of DGS. The information you received was a picture of the state of the moment when it was requested, and that was at a time when the DGS had no elected leadership, so when there were two people doing the post of deputy director, that mandate expired. After all, you know that very well. The election, the management of the DGS, lasted a long time. Unfortunately, no assistant director has been elected yet. Procedure in progress. I hope he gets elected soon. The state of the DGS-filled state of management lasts almost a year. There was no appointment, no appointed director, which certainly reflected the situation and work and working discipline and the overall effects of work in the DGS. The information you received clearly says that there are about 500 people missing from the DGS. The situation is not since yesterday, as the DGS was established in 2000. The last complete DGS in people's reception was in 2002. So 3 years in the DGS no one was admitted to the DGS to work. The commission, which, the joint parliamentary commission that oversees the work, saw and held talks with people. We have a very big problem if we have a man who goes to sick leave to have some border crossings work with one or two people. That's what makes our current work difficult. When it comes to the fullness of high positions, we are now facing the fact that DGS people are leaving the DGS because of difficult working conditions. The BiH border is 1.550km long and these people must travel outside their place of residence. We are trying to get these people who are in the leading positions to be primarily multiethnically represented all the leadership positions and then we have to send people from Bihaq to Visegrad or from Sarajevo to Trebinje. These are the conditions that require a lot of effort. We have so far four people who have lost their lives traveling from work to work, because they work 12 hours, it takes them two hours to get to work and two hours to get home from work. These are the conditions in which the DGS works. When it comes to the fullness of the leadership positions, it also makes it difficult for us to ignore the regulations on acts that are currently in the procedure of the parliamentary, or the Council of Ministers. The rules should be laid down so that all people in accordance with the new rule adopted in May of this year would be placed in place according to their school supplies and their rank. It's a procedure that will take a few months. Of course there will be problems again, because we cannot fill in the proper positions. People simply don't want to go outside their place of residence for the same, or even in some cases less pay to other jobs. Let's just say I'll take an example of Gradiška where we haven't been able to fill the assistant chief for several years from the Bosniak people, because no one has any interest in going here. These are objective problems that we encounter with our sister-in-law. 34 Of course, the report that you received about the launch of these disciplinary procedures, that is, criminal acts, only says how serious it was to monitor the work of these people. The truth is, you know that DGS has taken over a part of the people simply from the entity flies as something that's been found. And it couldn't work there, to say a security check, at that point, because it was done by the UN commission, or the APTF then and simply by the people who did it had no access to those documents, nor could they have done anything there or changed it. We have the truth now people who work at DGS, and did UN APTF that don't have a certificate, do police work. And now we've been asking the OHR and EUPM to explain to us what to do now? What do you do now, after five years? People work in those positions, and they don't have a certificate at all, let's just say some others were fired then. What I'm saying is that when it comes to these proceedings, discipline or others, there are truths and serious offenses, or crimes committed. A lot of people were fired from the DGS. I think it only says how much attention is given to that, to that supervision of the work of those people. So don't think that only DGS has corruption and that it's the only DGS that has so many people who are bad. But it's also true that we're being reported and every reported case is being prosecuted. I worked in some other security services before the war, so we had a real representation of the crimes and that display that goes for some reports and where we cut some reports. There's nothing haired here. DGS to say I presented everything that has been reported to the DGS so far as a misbehavior of police officers. I think these phenomena are everywhere and we have to fight these phenomena. I must tell you that now the failure of the Police Committee at the level of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Security, makes it difficult for those proceedings we have initiated to bring them to an end, because the people who have reportedly committed some excesses cannot stop working with them because of serious violations of official duty because we do not have a police committee in place. And by the time we get to the second-degree body, the man complains to the police committee, and that's where we just end things. When it comes to the second one, that's what Mr. Zrno was talking about, when it comes to editing borders, we are now acting on the system of what we found doing. Otherwise, we can't because the border line hasn't been defined yet. It is mentioned that Crnievo is already around 15-20 years old as a means of transport crossing Drine. There's nothing a DGS can do about it. I think a commission has already been formed at the level of the Council of Ministers that will define the final status of the crossing where the DGS people stand, because there were people from the RS MUP who were doing control before the DGS was formed. We have a lot of problems, let's say now it appears that at the border with Montenegro some 6-7km in the interspace, the just border police of Montenegro have retreated to the depths of Montenegro's territory, and there are 5-6 free shops in that space. We can't react to it now because DGS is in charge of border control, not that it determines it and not that it's in some way to say move. We come to what found state it was and what was it. The moment the commissions establish the border, when conditions are created, believe those who were your colleagues, who were, have seen where people work, that sometimes even in impromptu places there are people without any bracelets, where documents when they take over from those people who exercise control simply have no conditions, even these documents are rainy. I'm not saying that to justify the work of the DGS. I'm a new man in the DGS, only about three months, but I'm telling you the objectivity of the situation as it is. It is also difficult for DGS, to say the share of the fate of all state institutions because we need 35 things synchronised to do, all institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to establish that border line, or line, so that the border service can simply devote itself to its work. When it comes to what Mr., the Honorable Mr. Brka spoke of these border crossings, illegal border crossings, I must tell you that according to the Republic of Croatia in one part, wherever you look, these are possible, possible crossing points, illegal crossing of the state border. The regulation, the European Commission recorded the situation and the editing of that part, must be done by the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. the Council of Ministers to define which and where it will be prevented. That can't DGS do that. First he doesn't have the means, second he doesn't have the authority to do it. When it comes to security checks and medical convictions, we've already done proper checks on all GGS personnel files. Unfortunately, this was not done the moment people were taken from other police agencies, and now in the next year, if there is any funds, all the DGS members will be subjected to medical examinations. Of course, the specialist, first of all, to make sure that people are mentally capable of doing these jobs. And I hope we do that then. And when it comes to these security checks, unfortunately for a number of people it wasn't done, because they were simply taken over as something that was agreed by the leadership then, that is, by the adoption of the law, or by the establishment of the law, because the High Representative had established the DGS and then it was formed. Here I was trying to be as short as possible. I hope I've given some answers to that. I appreciate that in the next period, if the budget is approved, we plan to receive several hundred people, which would in some way certainly allow for more quality and efficient work, and I say a lot of things depends on some others, above all on the Council of Ministers, that the DGS will be effective, that is, how can I say, conditional on dealing with the problems and corruption that exists in the DGS and the establishment of management, in addition to the directors and deputies, so all the positions that are important for the effective functioning of the DGS. I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5354	Thank you, too. Was Mr. Limov answering? Here you go, Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5355	Of course I won't be long. It seems very useful to me that we heard this. First of all, I would like to remind Mr Franko Fratini, Commissioner for Justice and Home Affairs of the EU, and in the context of the story presented here by Mr Čengić, which refers to the liberalisation of the visa regime. There are only three elements, according to him. So -- state border control, progress in the fight against crime and corruption, and signing an agreement on remission. Whoever reads this information will see how far away we are from what we want. So outside Bosnia and Herzegovina. That is why I find it very acceptable for my colleagues, Zrn and colleagues Čengić, to conclude now that we are obliged by the Ministry of Security, i.e. the Council of Ministers, to deliver a full, complete report on the state and problems in the functioning of the DGS, and that there is also a proposal for measures in this report. So it's obvious that there's a tax on what's wanted, what needs to be done, who needs to do what's costing, so that we, as Parliament, can make 36 known and, of course, it's specific to the activity of all those involved in this process. So from the whole debate, and I want to say here that as an agent, I support your efforts to do what you did through internal control, and I am particularly pleased with the fact that you are without any changes in the law, and if I should say that we are also in this respect, here I am as a representative ready to support such demands that will install you with provisions based on which you will strengthen the criteria for selection and especially this part that you have mentioned yourself regarding the health capacity of those who, who will be in the DGS. I personally appreciate that retaining the existing state of affairs that tolerates what is actually directly directed towards our efforts towards the European path, and there are no nearly in the last few months of a gathering where these three elements are not expressed in one way or another in relation to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5356	Thank you, Mr. Limov. Mr. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5357	Very short. The discussion I heard, or the answers I heard from the DGS gentleman, actually confirms that this is a very serious question. I think that, that these answers well balanced some things and showed in fact what the real DGS can do, what it does, and what it does is beyond the reach of DGS, and it has serious connections to the protection of state borders. That's why I wouldn't repeat anything again. Let me now read the proposal for a conclusion that he would like us to agree and adopt. So the conclusion would be this: The House of People asks the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to submit to the House a comprehensive report on the activities of the DGS and labour problems by the end of January or January, so in 2006, as well as the necessary measures for quality protection of the state border. The report should cover all aspects of this issue. So not just that DGS, but all aspects. The people's home will organise a debate on the issue during February or February 2006, with representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina's competent institutions present.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5358	Thank you very much. Here we have heard the discussion. Filipović has given you this February, and I ask that we vote on this proposal by Mr Čengić and that we end this item of the agenda, to say that we accept this information, that we value it and we have shown a very serious attitude towards information, and I ask my colleagues to vote on the proposal of the gentleman. We vote first if we accept information. We accept it. There's no need. But we are voting on Mr. Čengić's conclusions. I beg you, on the proposal for Mr. Čengić's conclusion. I'm asking you to vote. Here you go. Filipovic better vote than make fun of me. It's happening again. Here's the unanimous. Whatever. You don't even have to feel it. You go when you don't hear. Thank you very much, colleagues. 37 Please, let's go now. Please. So unanimous. Yeah. Please, we have another one, I'm, uh, something to say. That we've taken the information and snacks of the commission and the Commission's conclusions into account. Because here we have the commission's conclusions about this problem. So that's our conclusion. We don't have to vote on this, but here's what we need to know. Thank you very much. The 14th item of the agenda is Ad.14. Giving consent to ratifying the Air Traffic Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Greece The report of the competent commission you received. The Commission has proposed to the House to reject this agreement. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this agreement. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Čengić, you're on behalf of the Commission, or personally.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5359	So briefly, you've got the report. The Commission proposed the following. Formal according to the information and instructions we have received, the fundamental problem of this agreement is that there is no reciprocity between the Republic of Greece and Bosnia and Herzegovina. According to aneks I, item 1. Bosnia and Herzegovina, or companies from Bosnia and Herzegovina, can fly exclusively to Athens, while companies from Greece can fly to all destinations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. For this reason, the Commission proposes to the House to reject this, this agreement with the proposal very clearly that it would actually return to the procedure only to discuss Annex number I, in which it would require compliance with the Greek side of reciprocity. So the same right for Bosnian companies to fly to destinations in Greece and Greece, which already have the right to fly to Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5360	Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5361	Can I...
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5362	I didn't hear. You can do it, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5363	...not included... I welcome you, and I have listened very carefully to Mr. Čengić's proposal, which is the commission in charge. I think it's very awkward in the ratification phase to reject the agreement and get it back to work. 38 means that when we proposed the basis for having negotiations, it had to write this something in those basics, and it probably wrote it. I wonder – is it checked, is it requested from the Greek side of something like this so that it could not agree, or is it not asked? It would be much better for us to accept and ratify the agreement, and then start the initiative and work on the agreement, because right now with Greece we are trying to achieve better relations than those we have, we are trying to negotiate to avoid double taxation and get another friend on the way to the EU. So this is, I'm not getting into any other questions. So in principle, when we let something go into ratification, it would be very good when the final degree of ratification comes to pass without going back like this, and so that the amendment is always done and the ratification of the amendment is done.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5364	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Goran Milojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5365	I welcome everyone. I've responded here to only one term, termologically, but I see that in the words of Madam Minister, it would not be acceptable on the part of the Council of Ministers. So I was going to suggest that instead of the word "refuse" we use "return to dorado", because I deeply believe that this is about technical, if possible. And the secretary convinced me that he did. So my proposal would go that way to respect this reciprocity. So I'm not into giving political connotation to this ratification agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5366	Thank you very much. Here you go. Dr. Crescent. Radmanović, Radovanović, excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5367	I think both of these agreements should, I think, apply to one agreement that will apply to others, because for the exact same reasons, are the same reports with Slovenia that we have placed on the agenda. I agree that maybe a little bit of this formulation refuses to be unacceptable and that maybe we could loosen it up a little bit in the sense that we're getting her back to work. But one thing is that when we adopted all, or ratified all of the agreements so far, we were led by the attitude that agreements cannot be changed. We can only ratify them in shape and how it's signed, or initialled, and we can't change them. However, at the last session of the commission, we have come up with some information that agreements may be changed, or ratified in a modified form, in the form that suits us and which we could accept, or we accept in this form. I'd like to clarify this situation if we can ratify an agreement in a part that has been amended in relation to an agreement signed. If you can do that, then there's no problem with us on the committee making a way, for us to make an amendment on the committee and change the agreement in a very small part. Both agreements do not require any major changes. It means in that small part that we should change the commission and ratify it in that form, and then ask for the agreement of the other party to ratify such an agreement. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5368	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5369	I must admit that I did not expect such a debate, and the debate is obviously primarily due to the fact that the Council of Ministers, presented here in the distinguished image of Minister Marić, obviously does not read what it says. The one he only writes doesn't read. So all the questions that Madam Minister referred to us in the House are questions for the Council of Ministers. You took part in the negotiations, it wasn't us. We reacted when it came to our turn. We couldn't have done it before because we don't have a procedural approach to the negotiation process at any stage. So that's number one. Number two, please understand I'll ask you now, because I didn't think we'd need that much detail. The report is very simple and reads this way – the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy unanimously made a decision under 1. The air traffic agreement between the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Greece is being rejected. The agreement does not guarantee the reciprocity of the Bosnian Herzegovina side. A second position -- the Commission proposes to the House of Peoples to ask the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to initiate a procedure to amend the Anexa agreement, quotes a Roman and a Roman schedule, and should read -- quotes of places in Bosnia and Herzegovina to withdraw any place in the Republic of Greece. Because this is the same in the next attitude in processing/?/ not understood word In other words is all slow literally in three words. However, all the legal interpretations and I can't understand that Mr. Jadranko is sitting here today talking about how to work, and he wasn't sitting on the committee yesterday explaining how to work. All the legal interpretations we have heard so far have been clear and said by the Commission cannot change a single letter of the agreement that has been signed. And for that reason we were told the only way to change that is because we are, we are getting the text to propose it for ratification, so we approve or not approve, accept, or refuse. The explanation was that we could reject it in a formal sense to initiate this procedure. If there's another time, then please don't make a deal here. Here, run that second time. We don't need to have a problem with Greece. In reverse, we want good relations. At the same time, we have no basis for having an unreciprocal relationship. I remind you that at the last, last session of this house, we ratified an air or air traffic agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bulgaria, which included and ratified the full reciprocity of the rooms. Fully. We would not be consistent either as the Commission or as the House if we, as a matter of condition, had almost neighbouring Bulgaria ratified one kind of agreement and also almost neighbouring Greece another. In that sense, I think we're getting along, essentially, which is that we need reciprocity. And two. Let the Council of Ministers initiate the procedure that is necessary, if they succeed in solving this problem in a month we will put on ratification and end. But we can't do it, neither the Commission nor the House. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5370	/not understood is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5371	We know that, Madam Minister, as the Commission, have unanimously agreed that we cannot accept irrevocableness.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5372	/is not understood by microphone/
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5373	Yeah, but. May I? I'll sign up for the discussion, so I'll just say a few sentences. What I think is good for Bosnia and Herzegovina to sign as many quality agreements as possible, especially here with neighbours, and I think Greece is one of our important partners, especially when entering the EU. However, there's one thing I have a problem with manufacturing technology and technology in general making these agreements. As far as I'm aware of these matters, and I must tell you, it may be that some of them will be lice, I have been on this committee in a regulated one system in Yugoslavia in Parliament, which has often had the opportunity to discuss these and these problems. What is important, I think, is that the Council of Ministers should come up with a platform for talks with each country that the parliament, or the committee of parliament, accepts the platform and conducts talks with the Council of Ministers on all agreements, interstate agreements. Why am I saying that? I will point out again, the Council of Ministers runs affairs, the state owns the state is Parliament. She does it on behalf of Parliament, not on her own behalf. Please, that's nice, so if you do that, if that's how we deal with each other, then we won't have cases like this and things like that. We'll have one agreement and a more efficient job. Thank you very much. Eh. Who answered? Mr. Brka answered, please to Filipović before you did.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5374	I thank you, and I just want to find out that we on the Commission have truly, without any dilemmas or reserves, unanimously supported what Mr. Čengić has read. And now I want to say it as an individual here. I will never accept, I as an individual as long as I am here that in any agreement Bosnia and Herzegovina has no reciprocity. And don't convince us, Madam Minister, and convince us of something you can't convince us of. I do not want Bosnia and Herzegovina to be in an unequal position with any state. If you need my vote, my voice is for that, and I was very uncomfortable when you said don't spoil our political relations with Greece. I am absolutely sure that there are 15 people sitting here who want to be with all the countries in the world of good relations, good relations, and we have no idea that with this, our intervention, we are jeopardizing political relations with Greece. We just think we need to correct the mistake. Whose is it? I don't want to talk about it right now. Thank you. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5375	Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5376	Thank you very much. You've been in deep thinking, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5377	No, I'm the one who flew into this Brinkin movie.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5378	Yeah. Here's what I'm doing in that movie, and I'd say a few words just about this even though I've talked a lot today, so some of my colleagues are complaining I've answered a lot of words. They gave me some very unfounded reason for that. The report, or the report by the committee responsible in its formulation, has one mistake that should not be the case, because it says that it is proposed that this agreement be made for the reasons we heard, because there is no reciprocity refused. Therefore, this House does not accept and refuse an agreement signed by two governments, two states, namely the Government of Greece and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but today at the House we need to give or do not give consent to this agreement signed by the two governments, which is a very fresh date, almost a year, whether there are years and more specifically, so on 2.12.2004. we are due to agree that this is ratified, or not ratified. And nothing more. Now the question is, what if we don't give consent for these reasons? What's going on? The same thing will happen if we say here today, we go off the agenda of this agreement, let's ask the Commission to do that, conditionally said, with the Secretary-General and the Council of Ministers and to try to remove any misunderstandings about this, let's do one analysis and see for all the forces of the agreement that the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina had with other countries in relation to other issues, not just air traffic, whether it's fair and whether it's possible to have reciprocity in any agreement at all, because there are agreements in which certain states have concluded with them an international job in which we can't possibly respond to some reciprocity. So that's more like it where we're the office of reciprocity, or where we give and give more than other countries to us. That's one question. So this is the first time we have entered into a problem where here are some agreements, some acts of the two states, with powers, with the full powers of the resolute Minister Dokić and the resolute Greek government minister, in which this has been observed. It's a good thing it's been noticed, but I find it very harmful now to say it's a no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. We can't say that. We can't give consent to that. The question is, how political good is it, how good is it? I am therefore inclined to think, and I would like to see this home done today to delay giving consent to ratifying this agreement and to all others that the Commission has found and seen that it has violated reciprocity, and that, before such a report, then this report is as it is unacceptable to me, before such a report is affected by such international legal acts where we cannot now influence the will of the other side. The other side is the Government of Greece, please. We cannot influence the will of the other side and any repairs are inadmissible. So they're inadmissible and they don't practice. We can make a precedent as much as we need it. I don't know. 42 I would therefore ask that we remove ourselves from the agenda, so I would ask my dear colleague, so Mr. Čengić, to understand this which is why I am saying this, and if he has more valid reasons than he has to bring them out, and if he does not accept this, then this is not a good way. This isn't good behavior. We are introducing a precedent into our home of the people.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5379	Thank you very much, Mr. Filipović. Dr. Crescent. Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5380	I am a member of the Commission of this report. However, I would support Mr. Filipović's proposal, because the fact is that we didn't have on the commission from the Ministry of Human Resources who could give a valid explanation, which is why the situation is so. I fully agree that we must seek reciprocity, but because of what the minister said there is a possibility that we did not seek reciprocity in the negotiations and see what is being done and that we take it down today and see that we explain this situation so for the next session yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5381	Thank you very much, Mr. Radovanović. Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5382	Namely, at our session when this agreement was debated, then one or one individual representative of the proposings brought the commission into a doubt and in error when she said it was possible to be small now, what are small, what is a big question, interventions to do in the very text of the agreement, which was strange to us as a commission, because it has never been said that this is a possible way of working and acting on some prepared agreement or contract or any other international document that this House, or the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, has ratified. So maybe our decision as a commission, actually for me, was also the main reason, or the reason why we decided this, and in a unanimous way, it was even said that we would return it to the representatives of our party so that if possible, it would probably do so, because it was probably possible by some mistake, because it was made to us, or in that sense, clarified. I, of course, paraphrased these words. I didn't even try them again, but this is what this is all about. And that's why I think it's best that we don't plead today, but that we take this off the agenda and that it comes to some next session of ours, and that until then we commit ourselves, and especially the chairman and leadership of this committee, to see with the representatives of our side what can be done, what is true truth in the end. And by the way, we're getting to know each other a little bit, the question of whether or not interventions can be done and how we can deal with similar situations.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5383	Thank you, Mr. Jukić. Mr Hasan Čengić answered again. Please, Čengić. No, no, hasane, the Genjac will conclude, don't lock the creature upside down. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5384	I therefore really have a proposal for a conclusion that could be for this point and for that point with Slovenia, which would be the following – the House of Nations postpones a statement on the agreement, i.e. giving consent to the agreement, and until the Council of Ministers has made clear on the reasons for such content of the agreement, on the implications of the possible non-compliance and on the possibilities for correcting the observed irregularities in the agreement. When the Council of Ministers, or the competent ministry, delivers it, we will have the elements to talk and think about it. Obviously, not all the necessary elements were enough to end this. So the conclusion is that we adopt and move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5385	Thank you very much, Mr. Genjac. Hasane, I think you'll agree to this conclusion. He's good.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5386	I'd be inconclusive if you'd just agree with the conclusion. We need to be very clear. So first of all, I thank everyone who participated in the discussion, and especially for the suggestions of fellow Filipović. I think his remarks in terms of the formulation are useful, and in that sense I will suggest, if you don't mind changing the Commission's little formulation of this conclusion, that is, the Commission's report. I'll read it later. Number two. Answer my fellow Filipović's question. In two years and 11 months, as far as I am a member of this commission and chair, not a single air traffic agreement, or traffic between Bosnia and Herzegovina has been accepted bilaterally, is not intended for ratification containing a lack of reciprocity. So never so far. And I think there was about 10 agreements in this area. Furthermore, the principled position of our commission was, which we agreed on in fact at the very beginning and very consistently implemented, that we would try wherever possible to insist on bilateral agreements on reciprocity, wherever possible and we also generally respected it. But here I wouldn't want to generalize. One question is air traffic, and the other may be other issues. The issue of air traffic is a very serious issue with very significant economic implications. So very significant, and now I'm going to be open to the end. Greece is an important tourist destination in Europe and the world, and it is not insignificant whether the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and those living in Bosnia and Herzegovina will go to Greece for a holiday, tomorrow more than today, domestic companies, or will come to Athens, then take a seat in Greek companies' planes and drive to some destinations outside Athens, which are, above all, an attractive destination on the Greek sea. These are not insignificant questions, and they are not questions that have no implications for these economic ones, so if you want others to. Socially, therefore, we have a position that we can fly to Turkey to any destination, that we can fly to Bulgaria to any destination, that we can fly to Germany to any destination, and in Greece we cannot, for God's sake, fly to Athens. So that's a 44 question that we need to state in general whether it's our approach, whether we're going to try and have the view that reciprocity is a principle. Number 2 now for complete and complete information, twice the commission has considered this issue. It's not once, it's twice. For the first time, the commission considered the issue and there were no proposing representatives. Physically, there was no such thing as a fact called the proposing's representative, and then we postponed for the next session, so we called in in writing, so we politely called again, so no one was allowed to appear again. Dear Minister Marić, representative of the Council of Ministers, that is not a question about this point, it is a rule of the Council of Ministers' behaviour, that is the problem. So of course Madam Minister is a rare minister who appears neatly on the committee, she personally when her points are. But it is one question, Mrs. Marić, and the other is the question of the Council of Ministers' representatives. So he didn't show up. We now have the next situation – this is a very serious question, because we have to decide whether we are going to make precedents or not. Mr. Brka has already said our last intention was to question our relationship with Greece. The other way around. The other way around. We've already had a few agreements this year with Greece and we've supported everything. I now propose two things - firstly I propose that if we can agree as both the Commission and the House, since this document will remain in the archives of the House, that the report should be changed, so the text of the report only changes in the first part of which, so far it has been said, the air traffic agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Greece is rejected. Instead, the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy unanimously decided on an Air Traffic Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Greece not to ratify this agreement. Dot. So, please, allow me, please, allow me. I am talking about the Commission's report and I propose that we amend the Commission's report in that part, so that the rest remains. And as for the conclusion of the House, on the line of what Mr. Genjac said, I suggest the next formulation, a technical formulation that, obviously, we all agree on. The people's home is delaying their decision on this agreement. A response from the BiH Council of Ministers is sought in a way that can ensure the reciprocity of the Bosnian Herzegovina side regarding the agreement. There's nothing we can do on the committee. Don't give us this paper back. We can't get out of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5387	All right, Mr. Čengić. Mr Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5388	Thank you very much for your word. So here's what I heard Mr. Čengić. I'll just do it before I suggest so different changes to this report, if it's even possible to say one other thing. So, the diplomatic consular network of Greece, when we are done with this session, will immediately inform Athens that it is here, so one act which was the will of two, states and others for these reasons has been stopped in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. He won't say no to that either. So it was stopped, so no approval was given for ratification. Be assured of that 45 because after this act has ended its procedure and we end the legal work in a regulated manner, so diplomatic consular networks should inform their countries of the fate of the act that their government has begun with this government. So we know what the result will be. I wouldn't want him to go negative towards any country, let alone Athens. Speaking of Athens, and future Athens is the only destination mentioned as the landing destination, right for our planes in Greece. I'm asking Mr. Čengić if he can answer me and can he subdue what he's proposing to me? Are several landing destinations requested in the talks, or just Athens? Can you tell me that? If you can't tell me, then we can't decide today about this and I suggest you redefine the report, so if you can get it back to the commission. So today it's not up to us to decide this. I suggested concretely, it was repeated by Mr. Genjac, I made a proposal to postpone giving consent to ratification. And I stay on that proposal, but I would like it to be written in the report by the relevant commission, Mr. Čengić, not to say you said you were withdrawing the word "rejected" and that it says "not ratified". Well, that's the same thing. You know, when the Commission's proposal does not suggest that we do not ratify it, or that we do not give consent to ratification and that this agreement is practically gone. I ask the question of what kind of message it will be tomorrow at any table, for any discussion of anything with the Greek government when the Council of Ministers sits, so please, especially if we don't know, so we don't know if there's any other destinations for Bosnia and Herzegovina's planes in Greece except Athens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5389	Thank you very much, Mr. Filipović. Here's Mr. Čengić. Let's get this over with. Čengić've heard all sorts of opinions.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5390	I think it's extremely wrong, Mr. Chairman, to call me on this. So it's extremely wrong. My role here today is only one to present the position of a committee that is busy unanimously. If you won't let me do my job, let me know. That's number one. Number 2 neither I, my colleague Filipović, and I suppose none of the committee members know the answer to the question of what was negotiated and not only do we not know the answer to the question of what was negotiated about this agreement and what were the initial positions, but none of the agreements, this commission is not included in any way in the discussion of the platform for negotiations, nor in the course of the negotiations. We've only got the text and I repeat, no one has honored to present even this text, let alone the ambience of the negotiations. That's the story. My proposal was very clear. I've suggested two different things just on the back of this committee to change so ourselves, the formulation itself. I cannot change the commission's decision, but we can change the formulation in terms of instead of the word "rejections" suggests "not to be ratified". 46 On the other hand, the house is the one who makes the decision. And I agree that we are going to go to the House today not to make a decision, not to decide at all, but to, yes, no, I agree, I support that we are not at all deciding on the court's document, but to in fact ask the Council of Ministers to come up with an interpretation of how we can resolve the issue. If the attitude is to have reciprocity and if the attitude is that we want to have an agreement as soon as possible, what is the solution. Let the Council of Ministers, through their services, cooperate with the institutions on a proposal. That's all.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5391	Thank you very much, Mr. Čengić. Please. Here you go, Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5392	..the commissions in question. Let the debate take place, the debate lasts as long as necessary. So we are discussing the report of the relevant commission and I fully understand Mr. Čengić's position to defend the commission's position. It's his right, it's his obligation under the Rules of Procedure. I understand that, and we lead this dialogue in order not to make a mistake that we don't have to make with one goal. So that's just it. There are no objections here, no hints or dissipations. So I guess that's how we understand it. For this reason, and since I couldn't get it and said Mr. Čengić that there was no such information as the talks were under way, perhaps the Bosnian Herzegovic side agreed and the negotiator to asymmetrically, so there is no reciprocity. If we get such a report in relation to Mr Genjac's proposed conclusion, then we need to give this agreement consent to be ratified. Otherwise, we'll be a non-serious contractor. Do you agree with me? So, then we do not respect the government's decisions which is authorized to negotiate with other governments-- So, I ask that the decision to give consent to ratify these disputed agreements be postponed. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5393	Please, come on. I pray, a little bit, and Hasan, a little bit and Filipović got a little mad at me for saying it. I think we all say the same thing. But we all say the exact same thing. As far as I'm concerned. And I now, as Genjce's formulation, please, was to delay, please. Here's to formulate a joint proposal to postpone a statement on this ratification, ratification of this law and, yes, this agreement and to establish with the Council of Ministers those other things that are unclear to us. Please, let's have a brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5394	I agree with almost all the discussion that's been said and I'm here. However, I disagree that if our council of ministers were to make a mistake, so would we. As long as I don't agree. Some of them made a mistake. We should tell them gentlemen you've made a mistake and you can't do it like that. And 47, we'll explain to the Greek government why it happened. Not to spoil relationships, but to tell someone to do what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5395	Please, I agree, our Council of Ministers is wrong, it's obvious. But we can't really compromise him on the outside. But if it hadn't been correct like this, it wouldn't have been good for Bosnia and Herzegovina. I beg you, here's this to go on this proposal that, Halid, you suggested, let the plea be given.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5396	It is delayed to agree on ratification of the agreement and, meanwhile, to ask the Council of Ministers for information on why an asymmetric agreement, which is the implications of refusing to ratify the agreement and which are ways to remove not these, is not reciprocity.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5397	Thank you very much. That's enough. Please, it's February. It's February. Thank you very much. I'm putting this proposal forward by Mr. Genjac for the vote. Please vote now.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5398	This is a joint proposal by Filipović, Genajc.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5399	Okay. Well, yes, I agree. So he was unanimously adopted. On the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5400	Mr. Chairman, I've had two suggestions. One is covered by this proposal, which we have adopted, and I voted for it myself. I also had a proposal to change the first position of this report. I don't think anybody's got anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5401	Let the commission change that. We don't, you're on board. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5402	I have a problem, then. I mean, don't say that. You, let's not, let's be consistent with ourselves. If so, then we should take a break, or take a break. In the break commission to make this decision and then you have a report that the commission has made to make this decision. Don't make it now, I went in good faith not to take that break, so I went in good interest not to take a break to agree on this text as well. This is where all the board members are present. We agreed on the essence of all this. I don't see a dispute so we don't get to the bottom of what I suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5403	I don't think colleagues from the commission should make a statement, not the House of the Commission's conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5404	Please, it's not gonna be okay if you're holding a committee session right now after you've brought this attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5405	Here you are from the commission. Well, you can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5406	/separated from the microphone/
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5407	Then can we get that into the vault? Then can we get that into the record?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5408	Of course we can.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5409	Please enter into the record that the members of the committee agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5410	Commission members agree to amend
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5411	First position of the commission's report on
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5412	the first position of the formulation in the decision. Well, that's what the commission does, we can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5413	We're discussing the report. I don't know why we're even talking about change. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5414	I don't agree with this comment. Excuse me, please give me your word. So, fellow Filipović, on the commission's report, or the committee's report, Dom reached a conclusion that he made and Dom still hasn't decided what to do. There. So we have a commission report, and we agree on the text to change it in this part of the report, and what Dom will do we don't know and wait for a decision whenever it is. That's all.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5415	Great. Okay. It's okay. Thank you very much. The next item of the agenda, so we're done, we're voting, we're done with this agenda. The next item of the agenda is this Korea, yes, Ad.15. Giving consent to the ratification of the Memorandum between the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, the Government of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the settlement of mutual financial claims in relation to the settlement of accounts from the trade in goods between the former Soviet Union and the former SFRY That is the clearing of the settlements, etc. etc. Do we have the commissionHasane position?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5416	The Commission has examined the proposal for this agreement very briefly. We gave consent and we, therefore, think that this is a very, very important question. In the end, it's about $135 million. So the real ones of the clearing are more that according to the information we received from the Council of Ministers' representatives are ready and at their disposal. The Russian Federation is ready and, unfortunately, we must conclude that Bosnia and Herzegovina is the last of the five countries to ratify this agreement and, according to what we understand after the ratification of our party, the process of bilaterally reaching bilateral agreements for the realization of this. I propose that we really ask the Council of Ministers that, as soon as possible, not only initiate the procedure but speed up our side as much as possible to get this bilateral agreement, because the funds exist, the funds are available. It wouldn't be good to waste a lot of time on bilateral agreements again. For this reason, we support the ratification of this agreement and ask for an accelerated bilateral agreement to be reached between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Russian Federation on the basis of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5417	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Madam Minister, do you have anything to say now? Here's Mr. Jukić. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5418	I'm going to Iskoristić this fact that Madam Minister is present here, so since she's here on behalf of the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina signed this agreement, I'm asking her what's on the original contract. Whether it's written by the government or by the Council of Ministers. I can see that's not a mistake, since the Serbian-Montenegro government is also mentioned, and so is...
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5419	/rejected from the microphone/
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5420	No, it can't be translated into the Russian Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5421	It's known to be called an institution here.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5422	Thank you very much. Please. Mr. Djoko, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5423	Since I've first called, I'd like to welcome everyone present. Gentlemen chairing on the background of what Mr. Milojević said, I would only be a little more detailed I thought and answered, certainly the following. It is clear here that this agreement was signed in 2003. So, and we know what we had in 2003, we have the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was in force in 2003 and which is valid today and has been valid since '96. which hasn't been changed. The Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. the Council of Ministers, stands clearly and precisely in the Constitution. It depends which one of these three nations speaks what language. And all the time we've got the stretch, the stretch, and again, come on, I've been asking that question, and a couple of sessions ago we had one of those cases, so come on, it doesn't matter. It's done sometimes we don't know what year. And this was done during the current constitution and the current council of ministers, not the government. I'm sorry, ma'am, so I'll tell my story and then you'll give me an answer later if you can. And of course what Mr. Milojević said, down again on behalf of the government, that and that, etc. etc. I won't give my vote for it. No, I really think it's very important to ratify this agreement, but it can be done accordingly, if the conclusion under the previous agreement is yes, we can give if the name of the agreement is changed for formal reasons, and it's not so difficult and I think it's someone deliberately from year to year, and the veil may have thought that in the next one, and maybe it's assuming it's in the next one, and maybe it's assuming that in the next after the amendments to the Constitution...it's going to be government, but it won't even after that, there's going to be a Council of Ministers again. So as to remove these unconstitutional, unconstitutional names from the current official documents that we, as an important home of this parliamentary assembly, adopt and bring.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5424	Thank you very much, Mr. Đoko. Dear Minister, here's your microphone. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5425	Miserable for the observations of this species. We did our best to change the name in all the last documents we had, although I had been following ratifications since 1999 and even '96. over here. So there were a lot of agreements I wasn't involved in. In this, she personally participated in the moment when the agreement was actually signed and indeed the government of Serbia-Montenegro was indeed the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So five of these heirs and Yugoslavia and, on the other hand, the government of the former Soviet Union, and even if I were to decide on it now, I might decide to go again because this really applies to the Council and these lower-level governments. These are the funds of a succession that by the logic of things, by law and by entities, and then we were all actually in that whole, we even negotiated, were the representatives of the entity when we talked about these things, so in that time in 2003 it was real, and the last agreements that are being concluded really we were being educated to write the Council of Ministers. Here you have seen the last KF agreements all who are the newer date to write it correctly under the Constitution. This repeat ratification would require negotiations within six members so that it would be very difficult for this to be carried out by God not to do so.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5426	Thank you very much. Do we have Mr. Čengić?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5427	Let Mr. Pajić allow a little joke at the beginning of this discussion. I suppose he's not sorry that the Rus will finally pay Bosnia this debt. And as for this, Bosnia and Herzegovina, pardon and Herzegovina, it is, that is, Herzegovina and Bosnia. Okay. Secondly, [[Common discussion]] Here's the voter and he's covering his comrades. So, secondly, please, I fully support the position of colleagues Pajić and everyone else. Mr. Chairman, may I have your attention, please? Thank you. So, I fully support Mr. Pajić's position and all others who believe that Bosnia and Herzegovina's documents should hold the names defined by the Constitution. And there's really nothing controversial about it. That's totally right. However, I do not believe that any of us should consider this agreement, only because of this is a generally important issue, but because of this, this fact stops at this stage. And third, I would ask the Council of Ministers to continue to use official names for the Council of Ministers that are currently in force, regardless of what they have probably already transferred to future formulations that are clearly heading towards the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I call upon my colleagues to give consent, therefore, to ratify this agreement. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5429	My remark is let something be called what it's called, and when it's changed it's called how it's going to change. I'm asking you not to have any more controversy about this. I would still put this to a vote and ask my colleagues if, I'm sorry, I didn't see it. Here's what I have to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5430	I ask the Council of Ministers where this agreement was 12 point 8 years, or by Dayton means 10 years.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5431	/away from the microphone
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5432	So I see, by date and ask. So it's been 12 years and 8.9 months.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5433	There'll be more interest. They're waiting for interest.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5434	No interest.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5435	We'll wait until we get the gas into Banja Luka.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5436	Thank you very much. It's a good point. I said our government works very well. Here's a confirmation that it's good work. Please, I'm asking you to vote for the ratification of the memo we discussed. Please vote now.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5437	Vote yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5438	No, I said now.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5439	You said about it, it says in your stenogram it will be.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5440	No, I didn't. - So 12, 0, 1. 12 for, no one against, one abstention. I think it's a ratified agreement. 53 The 16th Point of the Ad.16 agenda. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Korea and the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the loan of the Fund for Economic Development Co-operation and the Arrangement between the Government of the Republic of Korea and the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the loan of the Fund for Economic Development Co-operation and here, the government, we will wrap it up. Thank you very much. Is anyone answering for a word? Is there a commission? Thank you. Here you go, Hasane.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5441	So the commission has been considering this agreement and is proposing to the House to give consent to ratification. It is a means to improve the health situation, as I understand it is the means that need to fix the situation in a number of health homes on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. The conditions are usually favourable for Bosnia and Herzegovina and, besides this, the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I don't think there's anything else controversial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5442	Thank you very much. We heard Mr. Čengić's statement. Here you go, Mr. Đoko.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5443	Well, for the same reason, I would look here in an accompanying act that the agreement was signed in Sarajevo on 5 October 2005 between the Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Korea, the Presidency on 18 August 2005. So everything is in 2005 and again the government and finally the government's signature.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5444	Really, these government guys are terrible. Here, fix the minister this. Please nice, we listened to everything we had to listen to. I'm putting this to a vote. Please vote now. You won't drag me into that discussion anymore. Thank you very much. Here it is, I think it's unanimous, except for Đoka. We Đokun't count dick. - 11 for, against no one, one abstention. Thank you very much. The next item, or the 17th agenda, would be Ad.17. A contract between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovenia on legal assistance in civil and criminal matters Please let me, what we said about Greece, accept the same system for Slovenia and I think that would be good. I'm asking Mr. Hasan Čengić to take on behalf of the commission. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5445	So, here's since Madam Minister is here I'm still going to ask her to sort of pass it on to her distinguished colleagues, so to her colleagues at the Council of Ministers or those governments.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5446	No, the Minister can't hear you. Tell her to hear you and tell me
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5447	Oly, it's a lady, she's a distinguished lady, so you go to the government, or the gaum. So, Madam Minister, please pass on to your esteemed colleagues who rarely deign to appear in this house and generally do not allow themselves to appear on our commission that we did not have anyone who could present this agreement, and twice in two sessions we discussed this issue. The issue is very serious, it concerns only Article 1 of the 3rd Law, which stipulates that Bosnia and Herzegovina's lawyers can perform services in Slovenia and Slovenia's lawyers in Bosnia and Herzegovina. After we held a hearing on the commission, we reached the conclusion that we should refer a question to the legal chambers of Republika Srpska and the Federation and ask them what they think of this agreement. We have received answers in writing both from one chamber and from another almost identical in the text, and the exact same in the view that this solution in this agreement is unacceptable and harmful to the position of lawyers, i.e. legal chambers. The reason was very simple. Slovenian lawyers can still communicate and appear in domestic languages in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and our lawyers are in very small numbers able to speak in Slovenian which is the official language in Slovenia and in their courts. In that sense, indeed, lawyers from Slovenia would have an extraordinary advantage in Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. Unfortunately, and to our astonishment, after we made this decision, namely after the second session was scheduled and the debate was launched by the Council of Ministers' representative only then, without an accompanying letter, without information in oral form until then, informed that the Parliament of Slovenia had already ratified this agreement, but without this provision. So they unilaterally ruled out this provision because the Slovenian lawyers rebelled against BH lawyers, so they wiped it out. That's how our council of ministers works.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5448	They're doing great.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5449	So, please, in order not to have another debate on the same, obviously we should use the same formulation as just before and from the Commission's point of view and from the House's point of view that the commission proposes not to be ratified, not to repeat the formulation now, and the House to ask the Council of Ministers for an explanation of what to do next. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5450	Thank you very much. We heard Mr. Hasan Čengić's suggestion. Please vote for that proposal, or yes, who's up for a vote? Let's go. Vote now. To Mr. Čengić's suggestion. So we unanimously decided that, we adopted this ratification to delay and do as our Mr. Čengić said about this. Thank you very much. The last item of the agenda today is Ad.18. A proposal for a candidate for members of the BiH Council of Ministers' Board of Appeal Office has been submitted to you for a proposal for a candidate for members of the Board of Appeals submitted by the Council of Ministers. The House of Representatives has accepted the proposed candidates and I am opening the debate. Is anyone picking up? Here you go, Mr. LImov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5451	Of course I'll be brief and I'll only make my remarks, so the Board of Appeals and some institutions do.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5452	Public procurement.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5453	It would be good, then, to write public procurement at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Do we have an agency at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina for public procurement established? We're only being informed here. In my letter, therefore, I read -- the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina set up a proposal for members of the Board of Appeal at the 93rd session held on 29.9.2005 and concluded that the proposal was being informed by the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's nothing further. Are we going to plead? If we're going to make a statement, we should write it down. It doesn't say. So we're just getting information.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5454	Please, it's a mistake in the law's document that we're pleading on this.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5455	I ask you to make one conclusion binding on those who send us memos to look into the law and to convey accordingly to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. 56 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5456	Here you go. Okay, we're gonna take this off the agenda now anyway. Well, we won't.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5457	We can't take it off, so we can't form an office.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5458	What office? So do it right.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5459	/rejected from the microphone/
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5460	It's another thing that you've broken down, so let's take it from you. Here you go, Đoko.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5461	Well, gentlemen, I'd just like to ask you one question. It's standing here, he says, they're management experts and then three candidates. As far as I can see, one is from Croatia, one from Bosniak and one from the Serb people. And here from the order of experts in the field of public procurement one in the order of Croatia, one in the order of Bosniaks. I'm just asking if it's loaded or not, or if no one's competing, or what's going on. I absolutely agree with this first question by Mr Lim to be in the first position of this letter, or to rephrase, so as not to inform himself, or to say request the consent of the Parliamentary Assembly of the House of Peoples, and not inform, that we know what it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5462	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5463	I really have to apologize, because this time, I really didn't write it, but our secretary wrote it and the material that the Ministry of Finance prepared, or the commission chose, called the competition, set the criteria, had an anciently beautiful material. And I just saw that this is what it is, but it's over now. So we're really asking that you today, you should vote, you should name people who, and that's the formation of an office to discuss complaints from the field of public procurement. It is that this agency, meanwhile, was appointed by the Director, at the Council of Ministers, was appointed the Management Board which should be, some offices we have brought together a little equipment, they become a budgetary user and the agency is little by little stepping on their feet. The agency doesn't really have a big role, how much does this appeal office have or the appeal office have? It is that they should be a secondary body receiving those in the second degree of appeal for public procurement procedures and are very important. In the meantime, the entity finance and my ministry are doing it, and we are, by law, only 57 extending that public procurement law for three months, we are struggling. We think we're going to form this body so that they take that second degree and solve you in the second degree of these disputes. We pray today that you appoint three of these first men, two of the others. As soon as you're done with this, we're having another competition tomorrow for another man in the line of experts because in the order of the Serbian people really didn't come forward, in this case no one. We've got 10 people who signed up for the competition, and the whole material means to you responsiblely speaking here with this place I'm going to deliver to you who's reported all of the people. It means how, why are these people proposed. It really didn't mean anything, I say we'll call a new competition and the Council of Ministers is actually proposing to you as a home to name people and asking you to name this so we can call for this third one, and yesterday the House of Representatives appointed this same thing and set up an office and start working, because these ministries can't really do it anymore, because it came out of our jurisdiction. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5464	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5465	Explanation. Let's say you deliver the candidates to us now, you chose. Was there, were there more candidates?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5466	Ten.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5467	Was it possible for you to give us the names of all the candidates so we could see who those people were? Maybe I'd be for someone else, not who you are.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5468	I understand you perfectly. But the Council of Ministers determines the list.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5469	It was maybe more appropriate that we got it, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5470	But there's no possibility of what you're talking about in the law. The Council of Ministers sets the criteria, meaning before the House, appoints the commission. The Commission shall submit the criteria. There is a competition under these criteria. That commission takes all those job applications, conducts an interview, writes a written, oral part, neither do I, and makes a list of candidates. The Staff Committee of the Council of Ministers shall establish a proposal and send both home. So it wouldn't be desirable to make some changes. Council of Ministers' Staff Committee, if they're not yours
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5471	Well, they didn't do anything. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5472	Well, they're not good, I'm not in it, but here I am asking you to adopt this.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5473	Here's Mr. Goran.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5474	So here looks like I'm the last speaker in this calendar year. I won't be the one to conclude. We have a chairman who'll be happy to see you at the end of this session with good news. But I want to realize that this is, in my opinion, the most poorly equipped material in technical terms for any part of the agenda. This is a disaster for real. But I would also like to point out what Ms. Minister last said to the importance that this commission, the office for reviewing complaints at the time of public procurement, be formed as soon as possible. I was personally warned by various entities who participated in various tenders. There's a million problems, and here I'm calling you and I to vote, so let's pick these members of the board today, and hopefully this office will be completed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5475	Thank you. Here you go. I think like this, this is a commission that should, I must say, be pushed through bids by many crimes, many tenders. Let's get this over with, though this council of ministers didn't do well. Please, gentlemen, vote now. That's what we'll do, she asked Ruža, you could answer. [[Common discussion]] You couldn't go out with the budget until the OHR told you to. Come on, we'll take that off. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5476	Wait a minute, I'm guessing the chairman's gonna close the session now. Before that, allow me to, on behalf of the Club of Serbian delegates, congratulate the House of Peoples and all employees of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and who are Catholic religions on Christmas holidays. May they be lucky to you up to the year and many summers and years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5477	Thank you. On behalf of my colleagues in the presidency and in my personal name, I hope that, to congratulate and wish the happy holidays to the believers of the Catholic religion. Also, I am not sure that in January we will see each other for this I also want happy holidays and for my colleagues, officials and all people in Bosnia and Herzegovina meet Orthodox holidays. I want them to spend them in a good mood with good health and to be their best. 59 After this and after this session was completed, the College of the House of Nations prepared for our fellow officers and servants of this house one breakfast downstairs, and I invite you to join us. I'd also like representatives of public information funds to join us at the restaurant. We've got a nice breakfast there for both of them and we'll see you down there. Thank you very much. Good luck to you. Please, hello, please, my colleague Genjac wants me to also congratulate the holidays.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-22-0.u5478	I, please in front of you on behalf of the Bosniak Club, please on behalf of the Bosniak Club, so on behalf of the Bosniak Club, after this announcement with special reasons, I also want to congratulate all Catholics on Christmas holidays, all Orthodox Orthodox holidays and, of course, New Year to all those who will celebrate the New Year's Eve in general. That's right. Thank you. The session was completed at 15.00 hours.
