ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4696	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable delegates, honored guests, representatives of the public announcement funds all present and opening the 46th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina At the session is currently held 13 MPs of 15. So Mr. Ilija Filipović justified his absence, Mr. Čengić announced his arrival so here we will be seems to be in an even more quality quorum. For the 46th session, I propose the next agenda 1. Answers to envoy questions and envoy questions, 2. The adoption of the 45th session of the House of Peoples, 3. The request of the Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Customs Infringements of BiH by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 4. Explanation of the House of Peoples on the request of Ambassador Osman Brk for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Tax on Transport of Products and Services Act, by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 5. Proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 6. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's external debt situation in 2004, 7. Giving consent to the ratification of the Convention on tripartite consultations in order to promote the implementation of international labour standards, 1976, 8. Giving consent to ratifying the Framework Agreement between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the general principles of BiH's participation in Community programmes, 2 9. Giving consent to ratifying the treaty on a comprehensive ban on nuclear attempts, 10. Report on the work of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy of the People's House. Who's answering for a word? Mr. brkati. Here you go, Mr. Noose.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4698	I thank you and welcome you to the College and all my colleagues in Parliament and guests, but I don't think there are any guests and journalists here right now, and let me tell you that I delivered one, one point this morning, a proposal for one item on the agenda, and I'm sorry I should have really done it on Monday or Tuesday, but I had all four days of commission and I just got away with it. This is the proposal for a law supplementing the Customs Policy Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I suggest we adopt because as the next item of the agenda, it's just a proposal for a procedure to be in accordance with Article 99. I hope you understand what it is and you got, I believe this morning, I think Jadranko passed it on to you on the benches. It's simple to improve our business conditions for our people and I don't think there's any problem about accepting the addition point to this agenda point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4699	Okay. So here's what we heard. Request for inclusion in the agenda for the purpose of a declaration of procedure. So this means the short deadlines for one half. I make this proposal to Mr. Brk, who is legitimate in accordance with our rules of procedure for a plea. I'm actually making a statement. You can vote now. Here you go. Okay, here's what we do in our tried-out efficient way. So, I'm calling for us to plead by lifting our charts. So, who's in? Thank you. Against? Abstained? There is no unanimity we have decided to place on Mr. Brk's proposal under item 11 of the draft law supplementing the Bosnia and Herzegovina Customs Policy Act, a statement on the procedure to follow Article 99 of our Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Rapsava's open. Any further reports? There isn't. We're establishing a agenda. We're going to the first item of the agenda, Ad.1. Answers to the envoy's questions and envoy's questions, please. Who's answering for a word? Mr Tomislav LImov. Here you go, Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4700	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents, colleagues and fellow envoys, the distinguished representatives of the public information funds of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina that you are monitoring this session, I welcome you all together and I want to say that I have received answers to my questions concerning the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I must say that I am only partially satisfied, because in fact some of my questions are not answered. In particular, this refers to the amount of income that judges have, both domestic and foreign, and of course, I conclude from this that we MPs actually don't need to know what our judges are receiving. I want to raise my suspicions on this occasion about the correctness of the relationship between those judges who pay for foreign countries and I just think it's a bad solution. I therefore find it very difficult by being paid by their own countries to meet what is expected of them and by the Constitution and the laws of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is my personal opinion, and I, of course, express my dissatisfaction with the fact that I am not directly answered to the questions concerning these receipts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4701	I thank Mr. Limov. Next, does anyone else want to comment on who got the answers? Mr. Šiljegović and Mrs. Stojanović and Mr. Pajić. In this order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4702	Okay. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am not satisfied with the answer I have received. The question was clear, and part of the answer does not apply to the question at all. It's already become a practice, and here's a colleague of Limov's said it. 4 Provisions of Article 23 The 2005 budget law is general and does not speak at all about matter and the question I asked. You don't know the criteria for how, why it's not transparent and public, why only 6 institutions use business cards. Why isn't there, say, the Foreign Ministry, where I think the greatest need is if it's in the interest of the state that this ministry is benefiting. Cards are used in the back of 3-4 years and to make it clearer means I asked the question – Who uses a business card in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina? So I'm not satisfied. Part of the answer does not refer to the asked question, and I personally think that this is something beneath the grain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4703	Thank you. Mrs. Stojanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4704	I welcome the honored gentlemen. I also asked a clear and concrete question to which I received a general answer, the answer that the BiH Federation law did not comply with the BiH law even though it was necessary so far, i.e. although it should have been 1.6 by 1.6, and on the other part of the question I did not get an answer at all, and I think I am not satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4705	Thank you. Mr. Đoko Pajić. Here you go, Mr. Pajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4706	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and fellow delegates, honored guests and answer to my delegate question – Why not and when the Commission for the Research of Crimes will be formed in Sarajevo and in the period of '92. '95. the year, and according to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of January 2004. Let me just remind you of four. A plenary session of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly concluded on the formation of that commission. The council of ministers accepted such a conclusion, pledged to form a commission. Since then, more than a year and a half and nothing has been done on this issue, and I've already said that when I've been asking the question that in the last five or six months, both in the media and from many official and semi-official persons, they've been horrifying themselves with victims and their families on both sides and on the other and on the third. I believe that the Council of Ministers had to honour the conclusion of the National Assembly and its commitment to make this work to the end. So you're party to me not satisfied with the answer. In response, however, the Council of Ministers is said to propose a re-amendment of this conclusion to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to form a committee to investigate 5 crimes and similar deaths of all peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina since '92. '95. A year. This, against it, I have nothing and it really is necessary to establish the true truth about everything that has happened about all the crimes, about all the victims in Bosnia and Herzegovina during that period, it is indeed necessary, but I believe that the January 2004 conclusion should be respected so far. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4707	I thank Mr. Pajić. Here we have exhausted this part, actually Mr. Genjac has a chance if he wants to comment on the answer to his question because he's got an answer to one of his questions. If you like. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4708	So, the issue of disputed illegal usurpation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory by neighbouring country in the Janje area where it is a direct violation of borders established and recognised internationally, to the Council of Ministers' question of what has been done to resolve this, I have received an answer which I am absolutely not satisfied with. First of all, in response to the Council of Ministers, it informs me that the BiH Borders Commission has taken certain steps and has delivered materials to the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the intention of resolving it with the neighbouring state. The BiH Council of Ministers informs me that the Borders Commission has delivered to the foreign ministry and the Council of Ministers has not notified at all what the Foreign Ministry has done in these two years since it received these materials. So an absolute response that kind of offends common sense. And the third thing in particular in one part that is particularly annoying is that the problem has been solved in a certain way in a way that Serbia-Montenegro has accepted to establish a skeletal transition only at the time of summer when agricultural work is done and that is the question, in part, solved. I think that I absolutely cannot accept this answer and, of course, it is necessary to take the next steps in order for this issue to be really serious and resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4709	Thank you. Still Mr. Hasan Čengić received our colleague's answer to two questions. However, since he is not present here at the moment, he will have the opportunity to make known his answers at our next session. I'm just one explanation to all of us, to all the colleagues who got answers. They were mostly dissatisfied with their answers, and they know what to do, so either 6 to renew the question or to correct it and ask for a reply again, because we cannot satisfy that we are not satisfied with the answer to the question, or if we are not fully satisfied. Let's move on. Part two of this agenda point. It's an emissary question. Mr. Milovjević has come forward, Mr. Milojević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4710	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, welcome to all colleagues, guests and here is the Council of Ministers who are not here by tradition. So in accordance with Articles 117 and 118. Rules of Procedure, I'm going to ask a few delegate questions. I would not read the number of official messengers in Article 77(1) of the LawSobzir which is prescribed by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in co-operation with the entity ministries, or the Brcko District. I ask the Council of Ministers to respond in writing to the following - Why do the Office for Veterinary Veterinary of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH fail to comply with these legal provisions, i.e. the proposals for sublegal and other acts in the veterinary field are submitted directly to the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, without prior consent with the entity ministries and the Brcko District, as required by the legal provision mentioned? These circumstances are of a lasting and serious nature, followed by which the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management of Republika Srpska announced that it will not participate in the implementation of sublaws in the veterinary field until the prescribed conditions and procedures are met. Since such a situation may cause serious disturbances in an extremely important economic area, I ask the Council of Ministers to deliver its response as urgently as possible, i.e. take measures to comply with the law. I also ask the Council of Ministers for an answer to the following - Are the agencies, i.e. the Veterinary Authority, the Plant Health Agency, the Food Safety Agency and the Payment Agency respected the criteria of equal national representation? 7 - Is the principle that the director and the deputy in these agencies cannot be from the same entity and - Are they intended to form the detachments of these agencies, or their organisational units outside the headquarters of these agencies, in order to contribute more effectively to the development of those agencies and to the quality implementation of uniform regulations? My next question is addressed to the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Management Board of the BiH Direct Taxation Authority, given the protests of several graphic enterprises from Bosnia and Herzegovina relating to the selection of companies for the printing of tax stamps from those institutions, I ask that in written form answer the following - Who is responsible for controlling public procurement in BiH institutions? - During the selection process, were the members who had professional competences for this task in the printing of tax stamps within the competent commission? And - what criteria were they run when making a decision? - Why is this job not entrusted to the most favourable bidder, Voice of Serbia, HD Graphics from Banja Luka, according to a protest of the media union and graphics of RS directed to all BiH institutions, or Republika Srpska? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4711	I thank Mr. Milojević. Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4712	Thank you, sir, I have two questions on this occasion first, of course, to the Council of Ministers of both questions 1. Will the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina prepare and refer the Law on Sports of Bosnia and Herzegovina to parliamentary procedures? And two. Why and at what level is the procedure for considering the text of the BiH Sport Act organised by the BiH Olympic Committee and the Football Federation? This procedure has not lasted for more than a year and a half. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4713	I thank Mr. Limov. Who else does? Mr. Šiljegović. Here you go. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4714	Thank you, Chairman. I've been thinking very often about whether it's worth asking these questions, since at 4-5 I haven't already received an answer and a lot of colleagues haven't received an answer, but maybe in one variant we'll do one recapitulation, to hire a secretary or someone to see. I think we've asked a lot of questions that we didn't get an answer to and that this house is taking a stand on this. But here I have prepared a delegate question for today and it goes to the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. the Resolute Ministry of Security and at the same time the Government of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Information is available on the problem of the explosives supply at the Vitezit factory, or theft. - What did he do about security at this factory? The measures taken and does this affect overall security in Bosnia and Herzegovina?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4715	I thank Mr. Šiljegović. Who else wants to talk, or ask a question? If no one answered, I would ask the question. - About a year ago, or exactly 9.9.4 years ago, I asked the Council of Ministers and then, after two months, I got an answer to that question, but I said then that I would ask the same question again, to see if there would be any change of opportunities for the better. The question is - What is the number of employees and what is the national structure of employees, and in particular the journalistic staff at public broadcasters in BiH, BHTV1, RTRS, FTV and Radio RS and Radio Federation and Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. radio-television houses in Bosnia and Herzegovina that are financed from the funds of the RTV tax? So a year ago I got an answer and I have it on me and what's the main feature of this situation in this response is a very unbalanced composition of this staff and employees on a national basis. So big imbalance and I'm wondering if anything and how much it's changed, and I expect it to be better, but here it is. The question of the Council of Ministers, let's see how much this has changed to what extent. I want to believe it's quite good now, but here's when I get the answer, then I'll be able to figure it out. 9 And the second question is the same to the Council of Ministers - Did the Council of Ministers create a programme and plan to address the problem of accommodation for the work of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and is it accurate information, and I have incomplete information that there are more than 10 million marks for renting space for the work of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the past year, and in this part of this year, there are such trends and there are some information even around 15, over 15 million marks? These are very significant funds. I think this is the situation two or three years ago and it was objective and realistic. However, I believe that if this continues, this longer number of years, and it does not seem to be anything, or there is no programme and plan to solve this, then I believe that the responsibility of the Council of Ministers is very large, but also our responsibility, because we have not pointed out this. If that's 10 to 15 million marks a year in our mandate that's already been here for nearly three years, it's somewhere 40 million marks. Imagine what a beautiful building or beautiful space or spaces could be made and arranged and equipped for that money. This is a very serious failure for me, and here's a very clear question. I'm looking for an answer, of course, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4716	Thank you, Mr. Jukić and continue to hold the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4717	Here I am calling my colleagues. Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4718	Dear Presidency, fellow delegates, I do not wish to reciprocate the dissatisfaction of colleagues who have been determined according to the answers they have received, or have not received them, but here I have the need to express on my part the satisfaction that, after I have received a dissatisfaction, something has been done in line with my question which I have asked in my own time and the proposal. There's a tree down there that you saw and a lock and chain were placed that I suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4719	Here we have heard, so our questions have obviously sometimes and success, truth not great, but they say it's small steps, but if they're in the right direction, they're good. Okay. That would end with the first item of the agenda. 10 Moving to the second item of the agenda, Ad.2. The adoption of the 45th session of the House of Peoples In your materials you have received this document. If there's anyone to discuss, the debate is open. Here you go. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate. I call for a record statement. You can vote now. We'll try the technique. Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted the minutes from the 45th session of the House of Peoples. Moving to the next item of agenda number three, Add.3. The request of the Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Customs Infringements of BiH by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the People's House in accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on a request for the examination of the law under this Article after the debate. The House of Representatives did not accept to consider the law as a matter of urgency, and the law is therefore considered to be in the ordinary procedure. With this finding, what's still in my card is written, it's a waste. So, according to our conclusion that we follow the rhythm and work of the House of Representatives, it follows that we, too, will need to consider this law by regular procedure. Here, I suggested this, and we should make a formal statement if someone doesn't have a different opinion. Here, in order to respect the full procedure, therefore, if we are to do as I have suggested, as the House of Representatives has done to follow our conclusion from the beginning of our work, in the rhythm of work, we should make known about this request, and if we reject the law under the article, by regular procedure. So by voting against, we'll determine that we're going as a House of Representatives. I'm making a statement, calling for a vote. Here you go. Thank you. I find that with one vote in favour of, nine votes against, we have decided that this law is being considered in regular procedure. 11 Number Four, Add.4. Explanation of the House of Peoples on the request of Ambassador Osman Brk for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Transport of Products and Services by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples are under discussion on the examination of the law by a shortened procedure. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I call for a statement of application for the examination of the law under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. You can vote now. Thank you. I agree that we have unanimously decided to adopt Mr. Osman Brk's request and that the law is being considered under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. We're going to the next item on the agenda, number five, Ad.5. Proposed Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina you have received a report from the relevant commission. The Commission accepted the proposal for a Rules of Procedure with four amendments which became an integral part of the text of the Proposed Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate on the draft Rules of Procedure. Who's answering for a word? No one. Excuse me, Mr. brkati, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4720	I thank you and apologize to the session. Namely, I trust our people who have worked for more than two years, made this proposal and I congratulate them on it. I hope this is okay. However, something has fallen into my eyes these days, and I'd like to fill it in here. In fact, the other day I was walking into our building and I saw from the entrance downstairs that a person was coming in almost untrained, watch out almost untrained. And I asked the man who works at the entrance, if there is any regulation in this Parliamentary Assembly, that is, in this building in the institutions of the BiH state, how it can be entered into the building. He doesn't say, nothing is left to himself. Later, I wondered if we had some sort of house order. I don't think there's that either. I really believe that it is necessary to safeguard the dignity of the BiH state institutions and that employees and guests should respect the institutions where they come from and that they cannot make a beach out of BiH's institutions or create some kind of low-quality disco, so that they come here like that. And, I think, that we should have the house order and that in that household order it is known that we can come to work, that we can enter institutions, that, well, we're not going further now, but I think we should go further, rather than enter the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. And, 12, I propose, in fact, that there be room for a single sentence in article 52 where the Joint Commission will be given the responsibility of the BiH Parliament's administrative affairs to create and arrange a home order where both dress and staff and guests who come to the institutions will be regulated, in this case at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4721	I thank Mr. Brk. Mr. Zno answered his word. Mr. Zrna, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4722	Gentlemen Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all and I will not say anything wisely but I think that a few words should be spoken about what is here in the working process for more than a year and a half in our Parliament because this Rules of Procedure certainly deserves a little more discussion and a little more analysis and a little more concern because after the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure is what, the second legislative act, even when it comes to us and the functioning of this Parliament. Honestly, I haven't been able to finish through it and read it, thank Bog, I absolutely believe those who have worked on this Rules of Procedure and for a long time and I mean well. And for this reason, I wanted to propose that we let this Rules of Procedure go into parliamentary procedure, not because we would end the story of the Rules of Procedure because we really need the Rules of Procedure, here is the vis-à-visive reaction of Koelga Brk, the Rules of Procedure which will cover everything and which will tell, define everything when it comes to Parliament with what I would do, so I suggest that it go into parliamentary procedure, by also proposing that the amendment phase be extended and that this amendment phase has, or that it becomes part of the parliamentary procedure of considering and adopting this Rules of Procedure. The fact is, the commission phase is over. So he's in front of us, and there's no need to get him back or obstruct him, but simply give him a chance if anyone needs another chance, to work him out and make him a real Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4723	I thank Mr. Zrn. Here we heard two very specific proposals. Mr. Đoko Pajić djeli, here you go, Đoko.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4724	Well, dear colleagues, on my fellow Zrna's initiative, I'd only like one such explanation. We are at a session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission when amendments were to be tabled had a session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and we have forged what was the amendment. It seems to me at the initiative of Mr Jukić at the time that we said, last session of the House of Peoples, I think there were colleagues who attended, the Constitutional and Legal Commission, 13 were an initiative or agreement not to go to adoption immediately today, but we said, then we agreed and concluded a session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, to possibly hold another session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, i.e. to allow the adoption of this Rules of Procedure to be made. This was the conclusion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission in the last session at which we discussed this draft Rules of Procedure and in which we adopted one part of the amendments that had been tabled until then. And now, I really think I'm right, if I'm not some fellow Mr. Genjac, I don't know who else was present at the time. And now it's up to you to decide.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4725	I thank Mr. Đoka Pajić. Here we heard again, very similar thinking. So, so far, there are no different ones even though here's an initiative from Mr. Brk could fit in, because he didn't formulate his amendment, he said his thinking. I think that we could then here if there were no, of course, different views or suggestions, to conclude, and that in conclusion, we can make it possible for the Rules of Procedure to extend the amendment phase, so I don't know, to say what time-limit with Mr. brkati's obligation to make his thinking, to put his idea into the form of an amendment, and then to commit to the committee in charge that again, this is meant to be considered but only newly arrived amendments, just to see what time-limit it is. Here, help me, any ideas? Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4726	This is not our consideration on the Constitutional-Pave Commission, such a procedure, was determined by the need to bring certain chapters of the Rules of Procedure into line with the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. So that this work is coordinated and monitored and tried in that part that regulates the joint commissions and joint work, which is the subject of both rules of procedure to be agreed on so as not to make a difference. This was one of the basic reasons to extend this amendment phase because we are all aware of the fact that the making of the Rules of Procedure takes an inadmissible length of time, a significant document is not at all controversial to you, but it has unnecessarily extended the period of production, regardless of what the Commission has done in good time and what both Commissions and joint commissions have done. It's already taking a little too long. So for these reasons, I'm just suggesting that this deadline be 15 days. So, within 15 days of delivery, who has more amendments and during that same period, the constitutional-legal commissions of both, or the competent committees, in this case the Constitutional and Legal Commissions agree between the two homes possible amendments submitted and that the versions go to both homes in the same, so 15 days and agree between both homes in the same period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4727	Here we heard a concrete proposal, so with a deadline. Are there any different ideas about the deadline? There isn't. I think we can accept this. 14 So that all that is said may be contained in the conclusion. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4728	Let me tell you, the House of Representatives has adopted a Rules of Procedure with a large number of amendments. They are now working on a consolidated amendment text. We simply cannot take some of their amendments because they concern their home. That is why we should adopt the Rules of Procedure in order to establish a committee to comply with the provisions that are identical, they must be identical in both homes, in order for the Rules of Procedure to be valid. I mean, and I don't know if you'd like to accept their amendments, and believe that someone would sit down from us right now to do it all, there's not enough people, I'm telling you the truth. I don't know how it's going to come out, you can make a decision to extend the amendment phase, to have someone take over the amendments eventually if they match whether, to the House of Peoples to take over, to fit into our Rules of Procedure. It's the only option. But there's no need for two committees to agree, because they've finished their work.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4729	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4730	You see, we have therefore brought here and here is the commitment present to extend the amendment phase and it is not disputed. And there are already some amendments that are being seen. If we already have this situation that we are going to extend the amendment phase, I know that the House of Representatives has adopted and that there are a large number of amendments, however, only one number of amendments concern common issues, everything that is related to the work of the House of Representatives and only to the work of the House of Representatives are absolutely not of interest to us. But everything about procedures that are common and common committees must be absolutely identical. And for that reason, I think it is worth a try in this time as long as the time of the amendment is extended, that the Constitutional and Legal Commission should take the adopted amendments at the House of Representatives and, of course, the Secretariat to prepare these amendments in a way that only those involved in joint work and that the Constitutional and Legal Commission should try to accept amendments concerning joint work, adopted at the House of Representatives. And, in order to make it less possible to leave room and a matching tray or maybe even shut down the alignment, which I don't believe. Now, we, on the last Constitutional and Legal Commission, have extended this work between the rest of this intention, to try to bring things into line with the House of Representatives. So, I think that there is still room, no matter what, for this deadline to be 15 days for the submission of amendments and that, within that time, the Constitutional and Legal Commission to the fullest extent tries to bring the final text into line with what was adopted at the House of Representatives, and 15 concerns common procedures. What remains and cannot be agreed will, of course, be subject to the work of the joint commission to be appointed, and even here is the amendment of Mr. Brk, if proposed, he is not proposed at the House of Representatives, there is no time for the Predative House, only one amendment if adopted here shows the need to form a commission and it will be necessary. But it's not a receded need to get as close as possible right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4731	Thank you. I think we understand each other. So this stands, so everything we've said will stand in our conclusion and we've determined that it's 15 days from today. It all makes sense. So we will try through these 15 days, through the work of our commission and all of us to reach as many similar solutions as possible in that part of the Rules of Procedure these two homes that should be identical and with additions of course to other amendments that have been announced and those that are not. I wouldn't repeat the text of the conclusion. We heard him. I'm making a statement as to the conclusion. You can vote now. Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted the statement of conclusion on the extension of the amendment phase for the preparation of the Rules of Procedure's proposal in 15 days. We're going to the next item of agenda number six, Ad.6. Information on the state of BiH's fanic duty in 2004 As no business conditions have been met to consider this point, there are no representatives of the Council of Ministers, we will postpone this point for now because it is on the agenda, it has been our practice so far. We stick to practice, if the relevant representative of the Council of Ministers appears until the end of this agenda today's session, we can return to this. Mr. Milojević, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4732	Dear colleagues, this is really annoying that no one here is on this side of the Council of Ministers and this is incomprehensible. I'm even suggesting we don't respect this either, so, if the gentlemen show up until the end of our session, that we put it on the table. I suggest that we remove this item of the agenda for the reason that there are no proposing representatives and, if necessary and here, we publicly invite them to attend our sessions in the future, and I don't know any more how to authorise them to attend the meetings of the House of Peoples. Thank you. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4733	I thank Mr. Milojević. One more, here's the additional information, so once again this point has been removed from the agenda for the same reason, and I think it's very well established that what Mr. Milojević is proposing is that today we really take it off the agenda. Mrs. Stojanović, are you thinking about it or something?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4734	Since I was on the committee that was considering this problem, we also had a problem with the commission because of their lack of arrival, we were taking that point off the agenda. This is the second time back at the House to take off, I think this is inappropriate and I really support Mr Milojvić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4735	Okay. Then here I think no one has a different opinion, at least he didn't answer. We took this item off the agenda today and we're going to put it in the next session and we're going to consider it when the conditions are met as well as for other points. We've reached the seventh item of the agenda, Ad.7. Giving consent to the ratification of the Convention on tripartite consultations in order to promote the implementation of international labour standards in 1976, I believe that was that year in '76. You've received a report from the relevant committee. The House of Representatives ratified this convention. Who's answering for a word? So again the same thing as in the previous point, we don't have a proposing representative. We're taking this item off the agenda. Number eight, Ad.8. Giving consent to ratifying the Framework Agreement between the European Community and BiH on the general principles of BiH's participation in Community programmes means the same thing. There's no representative of the motionor. We're taking the act off the agenda. 17 number nine, Ad.9. Giving consent to ratifying the treaty on a comprehensive ban on nuclear experiments is the same thing as for the previous points. We're taking the act off the agenda. Number ten, Ad.10. A report on the work of the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy at the House of Peoples I call on the President, President of the Commission, Mr Cengic, and I welcome him. He just joined us, just in time. This point without it wouldn't go and now here it goes. Mr. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4736	I thank the chairman, greet all my colleagues, thank you for your welcome. I hope that I will have the opportunity to welcome the chairman as well, once again apologize for the justified delay. As for the rest, I don't think there's a lot of need for an explanation since our commission's been sitting, considering this issue and proposing to the House that we give consent to ratification. And as far as the Labour Report itself is concerned, he unfortunately would have said dry, mostly statisticalally picking up everything that was done in the period behind us and he was prepared for 6 months because we are still acting on the old Rules of Procedure, which is why we are preparing the report during that period. I think I can only say that the Commission's dynamics are a little accelerated thanks to the fact that a number of laws have appeared in the power of the Commission and thanks to a significant number of international agreements, contracts and resolutions, which we also considered before ratification. I don't see anything particularly interesting in the report. I can only say that according to my memory, the work of the Commission has never missed a single item on the agenda for you, and I thank the College for the trust that very often gives us laws that are somewhere on the border maybe between the two commissions, but we get them eventually. In the end, I can say that my colleagues are extremely valuable to me, and I can work with colleagues like this. They finish everything, I just come to the session. 18 Thank you very much, and I think this is the usual report. If you give us a chance, we'll give you another one by the end of this year, which I think will be even more extensive than this given the dynamics of activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4737	I thank Mr. Čengić. Is there a debate on the report? I can see there isn't. So, what Čengić said, we agree, the Commission has worked responsibly and worth it. I'm calling for a statement on the report. You can vote now. Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted the Commission's izvjšće on the work on foreign trade policy. We've reached the 11th point of the agenda, Add-11. Mr. Osman Brk's request also asks Mr. Pamuk to put the draft law supplementing the BiH Customs Policy Act on the agenda in accordance with the procedure of Article 99 of our Rules of Procedure We declare the procedure. Here's just a question of how to handle this since this is part of the jurisdiction of the IRS, but we'll talk about it when, it is. All right, no more sees reported for discussion. I call for a plea. You can vote now. Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted Mr. Osman Brk's request that the proposal for a law on complementarity, with a vote abstention, be adopted by Mr. Brk to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Customs Policy Act under Article 99 of our Rules of Procedure on Labour. We've exhausted today's agenda with this. I thank all my colleagues for contributing to such an effective work, with one more finding that we cannot say the same for the Council of Ministers who by who knows which time they did not respond to the session, explain the points of the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4738	Here among the journalists is information that journalists have received information for this session that starts at 12 o'clock. And it's interpreted as some act that has been consciously challenged for this download of the Law on the Public TV System and I dare you to clarify that question. So, there's some claim from the press that they got a call for a meeting, a session of the House that starts at 12 o'clock. And please, that connotation is very negatively attached. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4739	This is for me the information I first heard. The actual session was announced, I mean 15 days with exactly the latest date at 11 o'clock. Let's hear the clarification, this is for me the information I first heard.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4740	Now, the point is that the date that bears the notice is 6.09. That's what I mean, it was Monday. On Friday, I think, so a few days before the Public Relations Service was given, a call was made with the Captain's office at 12 o'clock. In the meantime, however, there has been a change. As far as I know, it's Friday, that Friday was put on the website, meanwhile there's been a change of clock so everyone got a call except unfortunately the journalists, they got in 12 hours, they all got an 11-hour call. There's let's say the mistake was that first, no public relations on the one hand were not familiar and on the other hand the mistake of public relations was that they didn't check it, the exact hour of time. That's what I unfortunately found out today. And that's exactly when the session started.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-15-0.u4741	So, we're going to do this anyway, this is a very serious thing, this is what we're going to do at the College. Therefore, all as from the date of or the first meeting of the appointment of this session. What I said, I'm staying in it, but that's what the College is going to determine, exactly all the facts about how this happened, I don't know what to call it mistakes, I don't know how. But the session was scheduled with this appointment at least 10 days ago. Here we go again, an apology to the press even though it's not the College's fault, but we'll question who's to blame. I thank everyone for today's work. The seat is over. The session ended at 12:15 p.m.
