ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4416	Honored envoys, delegates, respected guests, representatives of the public communications groups, I warmly welcome and open the 42nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 14 envoys present at the session. Of these four from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serb people. Mr. Hasan Čengić is absent due to some other obligations. For the 42nd session, I propose the next amended 1. Answers to envoy questions and envoy questions, 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 40th and 41st sessions of the House of Peoples, 3. Explanation of the House of People on the request of the Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax by the Rapid Procedure, in accordance with Article 100 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 4. An indication of the Home of the People on the request of the Council of Ministers for examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of BiH (First Reading), 6. Proposal for a competition law (first reading), 7. Proposal for a Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantees of BiH (First Reading), 8 / 8 Report on business of the BiH Financial Institution Audit Office for 2004, 9. Report on the BiH Election Commission's 2004 work, 2 10. Discussion (a) of the Annual Report of the Central Bank of BiH for 2004, (b) of the Financial Report of the Central Bank of BiH for 2004, 11. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, improving the material and organisational skills of the BiH Prosecutor's Office in 2004 and the state of crime in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2004, 12. Consideration (a) Information on all current and future missions of members of the Armed Forces of BiH, with the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy Report, (b) Information on the participation of police officers in peacekeeping missions, with the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy Report, 13. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports, 14. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovenia on mutual assistance on customs matters, 15 / 15 Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on the Promotion and Protection of Investments between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Denmark, 16. Giving consent to ratify the Sixth Amendment to the Financial Assistance Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the United States – for municipal infrastructure and services, 17. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on Border Transport and Cooperation, 18. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on mutual visa waiver. Is anyone picking up? Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija wants to speak. Mr. Neimarlia, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4418	Speaker of the House, fellow delegates, representatives of the Council of Ministers, media, guests, in accordance with Article 114. The Rules of Procedure of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Club of Delegates of the Bosniak Peoples, suggests that the adoption of a resolution in the next text - Resolution against the amnesty of the Chetnic Movement of Draže Mihajlović of the crimes committed during World War II by independent estimates of the victims of World War II in the former Yugoslavia, made up by Serbian scientist Bogoljub Kočović and Croatian scientist Vladimir Žerjavić in the Bosniak people, suffered between 8% and 9% of the total population. As in other nations, they were mainly civilian victims. Most of the Bošnjak killed were victims of the crime of members of the Chetnik movement, Draže Mihajlović. Chetnic 3 genocide over Bošnjak was committed in three waves when tens of thousands of men, women and children were killed in eastern Bosnia, eastern Herzegovina and Sandzak. Lately, various acts have been taken in the Republic of Serbia with the aim of formal and political amnesty of members of the Chetnik movement, Draže Mihajlović, of crimes committed against Bošnjak, Hrvat and other peoples. This is also the part of representatives of the state government of Serbia-Montenegro. More and more members of the Chetnik movement, which were co-workers of the German Italian fascist occupiers of Yugoslavia, seeks to present themselves as anti-fascists and fighters against criminals. This, unfortunately, also contributed to the subsequent handover of the US medal, Draži Mihajlović, to assist US pilots. The principles of truth, justice, and humanity speak unequivocally of every crime being a cover-up, perjury and denial of crime, and in particular its different representation. That's why we are expressing our protest against these phenomena and condemning the efforts to conceal crimes, and criminals amnesty. Calling on you to include this motion for a resolution in the agenda, I call on delegates in the House of Peoples to accept the proposed text of the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4419	I thank Mr. Neimarlija. Whether or not, I have information that the text of the resolution will be divided soon to the benches. Is there anyone else in need of a day order? I don't see any reports. Then I'll introduce you to that. Mr. Šiljegović wants to speak. Here you go, Mr. Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4420	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, given another change of agenda on behalf of the Serbian People's Club of Delegates, I request a 10 minute break to hold a short session of the Club on an additional amendment to the amended agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4421	Okay. Before we settle this, Mr. Genjac wants to.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4422	Before the break, I think it would be good for the College to respond and meet both the public and delegates whether there is a possibility that the Law on the Public TV System and Service at today's session of the agenda, since all deadlines are known around 19 May and the stay of 4 of the European Commission delegation in terms of a similarity assessment for Bosnia and Herzegovina's feasibility study on accession, i.e. stability and accession. Is there any possibility that these two laws could be included on today's agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4423	Okay. Is there anyone else to discuss the agenda before it means what has already been requested, it will be at the request of Mr. Šiljegović for a 10-minute break. Who else wants to talk before we can discuss new issues during this break. He doesn't want anyone. So we're making 10, right, Šiljegović. Okay. We're expecting a resolution and a 10-minute break. We'll continue in, hopefully at exactly noon and maybe a few minutes. These 10 times 2 of us are about or 2.5 minutes out. [[PAUZA]] In the meantime, we got, it seems to me, and again 10 minutes ago, which was a request, a motion for a resolution by Mr Neimarlia. So we have conditions for continuing work. The debate is open on the agenda. Who wants to talk? Will Mr. Šiljegović, is there a need? Mr. Šiljegović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4424	Okay. Thank you, Chairman. The resolution is called for events in the Republic of Serbia. We believe that this is a matter of neighbouring state, and the Club of Delegates of the Order of the Serbian People considers that the proposed resolution should not be found on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4425	I thank Mr. Šiljegović. Who wants to take part in the debate before we enter the agenda? Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4426	My colleagues and colleagues, respecting the formal nature of my colleague Šiljegović's remarks about the occurrences in Serbia and in the neighbouring country, of course, the applicants of the resolution had this in mind and responded to the phenomena of the crimes committed on the ground of this country. And that's also the reason and justification for the reference, in fact, to our dealings with this, these phenomena that are now located in the neighbouring country, but they concern the actions that have taken place on the ground of this country. The crimes were committed in Trebinj, Nevesinj, Foca, and that is actually why we react to the phenomena that are really in the neighbouring country and we ask that this be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4427	I thank Mr. Neimralija. I don't see any more reports. In accordance with our Rules of Procedure, I will call for a statement on putting Mr Neimarli's resolution on the agenda. You can vote now. Thank you. I find that with nine votes in, five votes against pleading, most exist. But there's no entity majority. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, the harmonisation of the Colleges. The consent probably doesn't exist. So let's go to round two. All we vote for is who's against it. Opposite, you vote on entities, only important votes against, others do not count, are not relevant. Clearly, who's against inclusion. So we're voting to include the resolution in today's session's agenda. We can vote on the entities now. We do vote who's against it. So it's important to the RS entity so we don't have to do it at all. Thank you. - 5 votes against the RS, so Mr. Hilmna Neimarlija's resolution was not included in the agenda. Mr. Halid Genjac wants to talk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4428	The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues, member of our Rules of Procedure speaks of resolutions and the position of the 1st Rules of Procedure says the House can express its position on relevant political issues, social problems and political guidelines to be implemented by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council of Ministers of BiH and other BiH institutions. However the victims of the Chetnik movement, please, therefore business intervention, this is business intervention, business intervention. I'm just asking you to explain the Rules of Procedure, so...
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4429	If it's business, go ahead. Otherwise there's no more point. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4430	Business intervention, then.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4431	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4432	This is attitude 1 that speaks of the House of Peoples and the Parlamentary Assembly being able to give a position on all relevant, political and social and other issues to the resolution. And I don't think there's any dilemma. Article 2 states that any envoy can submit a motion for a resolution. The motion for a resolution is under consideration at the House session unless the House decides that a motion for a resolution should be considered by the Commission. Our statement today, this resolution does not go to the agenda, so this resolution goes to the commission stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4433	Okay, there's more, but only business though, we can't and we won't, because we won't talk about the resolution on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4434	I'd like the secretary to explain the business procedure of setting the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4435	I apologize, but the College gives interpretations. Make it a break, so let it be.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4436	Okay. Is there
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4437	There's no interpreting what it says.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4438	Is there a need to interpret the Rules of Procedure, or is this clear as it says in Article 114? It's about the resolution. Okay, here's point 2 of Article 114, says - any envoy can submit a motion for a resolution is considered at the House Point session unless the House decides that it is necessary for the motion for a resolution to be considered previously by the Commission. Now here is the question whether we, with our not putting the resolution on the agenda, have decided indirectly that the resolution is being forwarded to the committee responsible. Here's the point of the question, as far as I understand. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4439	/not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4440	That's right. That's right. Mr. Šiljegović wants to. Excuse me, first of all, this is important we have to resolve.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4441	Mr. Chairman, I'm reading it out loud. Any delegate can submit a motion for a resolution. That's what the delegate club did. The motion for a resolution is being considered at the House session. We previously voted that the resolution should not be considered and included in the agenda, so please don't make a circus. So the motion for a resolution is being considered at the House session, unless the House decides that a motion for a resolution should be considered previously by the Commission. The Serb people's Klubdelegata has decided and believes the resolution cannot be considered at the House and its further phase has been interrupted. Please, don't be. This is for daily political purposes. This is about Congress SDA. Don't put us in a position to leave the session. Don't make a circus. So I'm making it very clear again. Any delegate can submit a motion for a resolution. The motion for a resolution is being considered at the House session. He didn't consider himself and we decided not to consider it. It's about events in the neighbouring country. Without that, not coming in, I might be convicted of a lot of crimes both these and those movements. So it's about new developments in another country. None of this was born in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And we've made it very clear that five of us have told you what the attitude is.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4442	Mr. Genjac, again about the Businessman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4443	So there's no reason to be unnecessarily nervous, because there were earlier reasons. The imperative provision to consider the motion for a resolution at the House session means that no one can decide to remove the resolution from the agenda. And unless Dom decides to forward that session to the commission stage first and then. As a result, since the vote was made probably not in the light of the implications of this attitude 2. 114. The Bosniak Club will renew the resolution for the next session and then delegates should be aware of these facts. It will probably be the end of the SDA Congress by then, so there will be no need and purpose to resolve this issue. So the delegation club will renew the resolution and propose for a session at the next session, but I would ask all delegates to bear in mind that the motion for a resolution, 8 consideration of the proposal cannot be taken off the agenda. The resolution can be accepted and not accepted, but it cannot be removed from the agenda. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4444	Here's Mr. Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4445	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree with Mr. Genjac that the resolution cannot be removed from the agenda. But this resolution wasn't on the agenda. To get to the agenda, we need to see article 45, and she didn't get into the agenda at all. Therefore, it is not removed from the agenda, but not included in the agenda, and therefore I think that any further discussion is groundless and that we should continue with the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4446	Here, I'll just have two sentences on the role of the College. The college did the right thing. Why? Because before the scheduled session and some other time, but right before, because the College had a meeting, a session, half an hour before this session began. And then the resolution was gone and there was no requirement to include something in the agenda that wasn't there. So we did the right thing, and we also did the right thing in deciding now. So no procedural error has been made and there is no need to discuss the procedure at all. What someone will do for the next or next session will be seen and when it is time to determine. I suggest we move on. So we are still discussing the proposed agenda. Is there? Mr. Šiljegović wants to speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4447	We're done. I thank you for your understanding. I'm sure next time there'll be a resolution on the agenda and then Dom will consider it. On the subject of Mr Halid Genjac's proposal to consider the possibility of inclusion in the agenda of the Law on TV Service and the system of the Club of Delegates in the order of the Serbian people, it is believed that we hear the statement of the College and that it would be acceptable for us to do so today, if there is a will to find it on the agenda and in some time to organise the work of a commission that could prepare that point. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4448	I thank Mr. Šiljegović. I will read article 88 of our Rules of Procedure, which says – when it receives a report from the chair of the College, it will include the draft law in the agenda of the House session, which will be held within 15 days. Since these conditions have not been met by today, there is no condition for this to be placed on the agenda, and I also believe that what I have already said is that I will repeat this morning and agree at the Club of the Croatian People where it is said and with the presence of the representatives of the international community that today behind this session is the meeting of the competent commission that will begin reviewing this law, because again contrary to our general position or conclusion from the beginning of this call that the laws are normally being discussed after they have passed, or their fate has been seen in the House of Representatives. So it's being fulfilled right now and today begins the commission phase. I think this is correct and to stick to our earlier agreed here are some principles in our way of working, and then within some reasonable time we will certainly have all the preconditions and reports of the commission and consider it at this home. Mr. Genjac wants to talk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4449	Very short. I thank the chairman. I think what the chairman said is very important that it is heard behind the House of People's pay phone and I think that the College has acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and I think it is good to insist at the Commission's meeting, after the session, and I think it is useful that such a decision will have practical benefits and at all costs I support such an approach and am satisfied with the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4450	Thank you. Is there any more discussion about the agenda? If not, then I believe, that is, this agenda that has been read has been adopted for today's session. Moving to the first item of the agenda Ad.1. Answers to the envoy's questions and envoys' questions Answers to the envoy's questions, secretary, was there? So since the last session, there have been no new answers to the envoy's questions. Any new envoy questions? Here you go. Mr. Limov. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4451	Dear Mr. President and gentlemen to the presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the international community and public information funds, I welcome you all together and I would like to use this opportunity and ask three questions for which I do not need to give a broad explanation, because probably, if I ever get answers, there will be a chance for appropriate comments from the President's comment. Of course, you know that we have finished our convention, so we do not need to put this in the context of these activities. So my questions are - 1. Of course, the BiH Council of Ministers has been appointed. How many persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina have changed their identity from 1.1.1996 to today, based on official records of relevant institutions? 2. What state bodies have decided to change identity and in how many cases is it specifically possible to change identity across every entity, canton and municipality in Bosnia and Herzegovina? and 3. For how many persons and in which municipalities in Bosnia and Herzegovina have the relevant authorities of the state administration made a subsequent entry in the parent books born from 1.1.1992 to today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4452	I thank Mr. Limov. Who else wants to ask a question? Mr. Đoko Pajić. Here you go, Mr. Pajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4453	So since we are still discussing the first item of the agenda, first of all, let me say that I express my dissatisfaction with why I did not get an answer to the delegate's question set at the 40th session of the House of Peoples and I am re-enacting the same thing not to read again, referred naturally to the Council of Ministers and the Chairman of the Council of Ministers to Mr Adnan Terzić. And now I would ask two questions and it would be addressed to the BiH presidency. 1. Has Mr Sulejman Tihić, a member of the BiH presidency's speech, in addressing the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's MPs and delegates at the plenary session of 9.5.2005, been agreed in the BiH presidency? And second question, BiH Presidency 11 2. Whether the BiH presidency's decision to send members of the BiH Armed Forces to Iraq will be discussed in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in accordance with Article 6. Law on the participation of members of the BiH Armed Forces, police officers, civil servants and other employees in peace support operations and other activities abroad, "The Official Messenger of BiH" No. 14/05.?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4454	I thank Mr. Pajić. Who else wants to ask a question? No more reports. This concludes the point of answering the envoy's questions and the envoy's questions and we move on to the second item of the agenda Ad.2. The adoption of the minutes of the 40th and 41st session of the House of Peoples has given you the minutes. Is anyone answering their word? First of all, 40th session, 41st. No objections. I suggest we adopt the minutes first of the 40th session. You can vote now. Thank you. I understand that with 11 votes, we unanimously passed the 40-session minutes. I call for a record statement from the 41st session. You can vote now. Thank you. I understand that we unanimously adopted the minutes of the 41st session. So we end up with the second one, we go to the third point of the agenda, Ad.3. Explanation of the House of People on the request of the Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax by the Rapid Procedure, in accordance with Article 100 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the People's House in accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on a request for the examination of the law under this article after the debate. The House of Representatives adopted this law as a matter of urgency. In accordance with Article 100(3) of the amendment, no application shall be made. Who's answering for a word? Mr Tomislav Limov. Here you go, Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4455	Your Honor, Mr. President, of course, I will speak my opinion very briefly and clearly. As far as I'm concerned, I think it would be my turn to hear an explanation why 12 is required to go along with article 100 of the amendment and supplement this law and I must say that this time we, the envoys, are obviously the last to know. Namely, when Honorable colleague Zrno asked his envoy's question at the last session. It's kind of a scenario, therefore, and it was, I just expect that before I say my final position on this and what I'm going to say through the vote, I expect that the proponent of this procedure will explain the reason why we're going for the shortened so-called. A brief or hasty procedure, which is why we don't go at least in a shortened way in terms of whether it's an option for a change of action, but it's about to end it right now. And of course, when I hear that argument, I'll say my point.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4456	Thank you. Who else wants to take part in the debate? Do we have a proposing representative? We don't. In accordance with our conclusion on these situations, I suggest that we postpone this item of the agenda so that we do not have to remove it immediately. If no proposing representative appears during the meeting, then this item is removed from the agenda. So, for now she's been delayed, that's my suggestion. Do you agree with this way? So we don't have to plead. So we're putting it off. If the proposal does not appear, it will be removed from the agenda. We're moving on. I see no one is opposed. So we agreed. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda, Add.4. An indication of the Home of the People on the request of the Council of Ministers for examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the People's House in accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on a request for the examination of the law under this article after the debate. Amendments shall not be submitted in accordance with Article 100(3). I'm opening a debate. Mr. Limov, he wants it again. Mr. Limov, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4457	Of course, I was in last session when this was on the agenda. I don't know if he's got any of the proposings today, and that's when I asked, and here I am going to do it again to help him if he's got one here today. 13 So I asked that, so the reasons why we're going with 6 and 8 so if today isn't going to be the next proposal with 9. etc. months of that bidding. Let it be said here what is the reason that the legal deadline that has been in force so far is not respected.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4458	Who else wants to talk? We heard. A question has been raised for the proposing representatives. Any suggestions? There isn't. So I'm not repeating what I already said about the previous point. It's all worth the same. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda. Ad.5. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Service in BiH institutions (first reading) passed the law at its 55th session, held on 21 April 2005 in the proposed text. You've received a report from the relevant commission. The Commission adopted two amendments that became an integral part of the law. This is information. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We declare the law in the first reading. You can vote now. I agree that, unanimously with 13 votes, we adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. We plead whether or not we will go to another reading. We declare that he is going to another reading. We can vote now. Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted the decision to go along with another reading of the law in question. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. There were no new amendments. Who's picking up the phone? There are no reports. I am concluding the debate and calling for a statement on the law in the second reading. You can vote. Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in a second reading. 14 Since the text of the Law has been adopted in various texts we are obliged to form a three-member committee to comply with the texts of the Law. I call on the presidents of the clubs to propose members of the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4459	From the order of the Serbian people, I propose Mr. Boško Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4460	Mr. Boško Šiljegović. Thank you. Mr. Zno. I'm just gonna say it again for a stenogram. So the commission suggests Mr Halid Genjac, Mr Branko Zrno, Mr Boško Šiljegović. Let's make a statement about the commission. You can vote now. Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted a decision on the selection of commissions composed of Mr. Boško Šiljegović, Mr. Branko Zrno and Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4461	...a representative of the Resolute Ministry has come to the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, so maybe we should get back to the point after we postponed it until the representative arrives. I see a representative of the Resort Ministry has arrived.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4462	Mr. Šiljegović was very observant. Apparently, he immediately noticed that he was. Here we are told that during the session, when appropriate, whether we will respect this request or go as planned. I don't see any reaction. So the initiative was, I think we should support it when no one else thinks. So we're going back to point four. Ad.4. An indication of the Home of the People on the request of the Council of Ministers for examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 100 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the People's House We came to debate. I call upon the representative, the motionor to explain the request. May I introduce myself, please? 15
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4463	I am Radenko Stanić, assistant minister at the Bosnia and Herzegovina Security Ministry. Since the agenda means the Law on State, amending and supplementing the Law on State Agency for Investigation and Protection. It is a decision taken by the High Representative for BiH to extend the mandate from 6 months to 8 months for the director, deputy director and senior state officials appointed by the Council of Ministers. Since no Director, Deputy Director, Head of the Department of Criminal Investigation and Internal Control Department has been appointed within 6 months, the High Representative has decided to extend this period by 60 days. Since there was no meaning in that period, neither the director nor the deputy nor the two assistants were appointed, the deadline expired in 23.2.2004. Since neither the Director nor the Deputy, nor the Assistants were appointed within that period, the Council of Ministers decided to extend the mandate, i.e. to make the Director v.d. for 60 days, which is a sketch in 23.4.2004. The last meeting of the Council of Ministers means yesterday, the Deputy Director and Assistant Director for Internal Control were appointed. The Director of the SIP Agency has not yet been appointed. Since the High Representative has made a decision on amendments and amendments to the Law, it must be accepted in the same text, without change so that we have followed that procedure. Is there
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4464	Okay. I thank Mr. Stanić. Mr. Limov had a question before. There you go, Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4465	I respect what is said, of course, but it's nothing new. That's not the answer to my question. So what happened to what you just said? Who's responsible for that? Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4466	Here I mentioned that yesterday, that the deputy director and assistant director for internal control had been appointed without the appointment of the director and assistant for the criminal investigation department. So there's been some misunderstandings. Work on the appointment and election and appointment of SIP representatives will continue. I don't think I can explain more detail to yesterday's session since there was a minister and a deputy present. They're currently in the Bureau session, so they couldn't, at the last minute, give up, they couldn't make it. Mostly these two deputy and assistant ministers were appointed, and the assistant, deputy and 16 assistant directors, and the director and assistant for the criminal investigation department were not set up.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4467	Okay. Thank you. Mr. Brka wants to talk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4468	Mr. Tomislav Limov actually took away my question that I wanted to ask. However, I want to say one more thing here. As a delegate in this home, I do not accept this information from the press. I want as a delegate to the House of Nations that I have the right information why it hasn't been done in six months, so it has to respond to the High Representative, so there's no reason why they haven't called it completely. I think it's underestimating this house. This home must know it in time and from the right people must get information. It's an honor to the press and the media, but I don't want official information that I'm looking for in the press and the media, and I want to know what's causing it, clearly and loudly, what's acting like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4469	Is there anyone else interested in the debate? If not. Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4470	Of course, I personally believe that we need to be explained here by ministers and deputies. They probably know the real reasons and they could answer. I just want to comment on this very briefly. Of course I'll vote against this, because the deadline is already up. It expired at the time of last session, etc. and, of course, I will vote against because I believe there is a deliberate obstruction here of something called the Bosnia and Herzegovina state-level institution, and it is about the police. And in the context of all the activities and reforms that have been announced we see what happened and I am looking at this problem. Now what's more important is what's called that director and it's supposed to be lost not six, not eight, but since last year this is going on, and maybe it would be more meaningful if we'd put 18 months here, so it would probably fit somewhere in the dynamics of what is created about reform by those who are responsible for this issue. I don't care what his name is or what the criteria are. Let the current government agree on a criterion between themselves and implement it, not to change the laws, because I don't know if there's any practice in a world that I don't know about for 8 months, in 2 months, etc. It would be appropriate to immediately go with a sufficient number of months, and that this is really done in a way that this important project called the SIP impels whether it is to the benefit of, above all, all the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and of course it is one of the essential preconditions for the whole reform process, but also an important sign and message to criminals and those who protect that 17 we have simply committed ourselves to building an institution that will respond to their mission. That's why these are my questions, because it's inappropriate for me to lose so many months because of certain personnel combinations. I read from this the insistence of obstruction of reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4471	Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? There isn't. So we've got to get to the bottom of the procedure. We therefore vote on the procedure to consider this amendment and the addition of the law under Article 100(2). Rules of Procedure. Who's in? You can vote. Thank you. I find that with 11 votes for, 2 against, 2 abstentions, we have adopted the Council of Ministers' request that this law be considered by a hasty procedure under Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I am opening a debate on the Law, that is, amendments and additions to the Law. Who's calling for a hearing? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I call upon the statutes of the law. You can vote now. Thank you. I find that with 11 votes in favour of, 2 against, 1 abstention, we have adopted amendments and additions to the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection by a hasty procedure. We're going to the sixth item of the Ad.6 agenda. The proposal for a competition law (first reading) The House of Representatives passed this law in both readings with one amendment at its 55th session held on 21 April 2005. You've received a report from the commission. The Commission accepted the text of the proposal for a competition law with one adopted amendment equivalent to the amendment of the House of Representatives and which becomes an integral part of the text of the law. Who's answering for a word? So the law in first reading. I'm closing the debate. I call for a statement on the law in the first reading. You can vote. Thank you. I agree that we unanimously passed the Competition Act in the first reading. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. 18 We declare this proposal. You can vote now. Thank you. I agree that we unanimously with 13 votes to adopt the proposal to do another reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. New amendments were submitted by the envoy, Mrs. Ruža Stojanović. The amendment statement follows. There's no need, or there's an explanation. The applicant is not answering. There's no argument. We're pleading on the amendments. I call for a statement on Amendment I to Article 20. You can vote now. Thank you. It voted 7, against 4. Of that in Federation 3 for, 4 against. Delegates from RS 4 for. So we don't have the Federation's entity majority. We're going to the second round. In the second round, all we can say is who's against the Federation. We call for a statement from the Federation. Thank you. I konstatirati that there were six votes against the Federation, and that's not 2/3 of ten. The amendment has passed. We're going to Amendment number II, Article 21. Mrs. Ruža wants to explain. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4472	This amendment number II, I withdraw.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4473	Thank you. Moving to Amendment III. In article 27, I'm not going to read it just to make it easier for us to enter. No arguments, no comments. I call for a statement on the amendment. Who's in? I'm finding results. In seven against four, abstention one. Of that in Federation 2 for, 4 against and 1 abstention. That's it. 19 Let's go back to the second round in the Federation. Who's against it? We're voting now. If you don't think it's right, we'll do it again. Is that a request, Mr. brkati? Okay. I suggest we re-vote the vote. So we vote in the Federation. From the Federation in the second round. We vote who's in favour, or who's against. It's got to be two-thirds to keep it from going through. So you can vote now, the Federation. I figure there were six votes against it. So that's less than two thirds of ten. The amendment has passed. We're voting on the law. The amendments that have passed are part of the law, of course. We're pleading against the law. You can vote now. Thank you. I understand that with 12 votes, we unanimously adopted, I apologize, one was abstentioned. So 12 for 1 abstention, we passed this law, the Competition Act. Since it has been adopted in a different text than the one in the House of Representatives, it is necessary to form a Commission for Consentation. I invite representatives or club presidents to come forward. Mr. Šiljegović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4474	The Serbian delegates' club proposes that Mrs. Ruža Stojanović be a member of the commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4475	Thank you. Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4476	Mr Pamuk.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4477	Mr Pamuk. I call for a statement on this committee. You're welcome to vote. Vote now. I agree that with 11 votes for, unanimously, we have chosen the commission in the form of Mrs Ruža Stojanović, Mr Branko Zrno and Mr Mustafa Pamuk, therefore, to agree on the text of the Competition Act. We're going to the 7th item of the agenda. 20 Ad.7. The proposal for a law on borrowing, debt and guarantees from Bosnia and Herzegovina, the first reading of the House of Representatives, passed the law in both readings with amendments at its 57th session on 17 May 2005. You've received a report from the commission. The Komsija adopted the text of the Proposal for a Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantee, with two amendments adopted, which are identical, adopted in the House of Representatives and become an integral part of the text of the law. Who's answering for a word? The debate is open. There's no record of a hearing. Is there a need for a proposing representative to explain or not? There isn't. I call for a statement on the law in the first reading. You can vote now. I thank and realize that with 11 votes for, 1 against, 1 abstention, we adopted the Law on Debt, Debt and Guarantees of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. Do we have an agreement on this? It was thinking. Mr. Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4478	The Serbian delegates' club is asking for a break for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4479	Okay, that fits. I suggest we have a break until two o'clock to finish lunch, all right, then, two and 15. I think that's enough. So, 55 minutes, and so far, what he's imagining is the Srbin Club, so we're going to continue. It means 14.15 follow-up. So we stopped at point seven. Proposal for a law on borrowing, debt and guarantees from BiH. [[PAUZA]] We adopted the first reading. I invite Mr. Boško Šiljegović to say, if he has anything to say, about the request for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4480	Mr. President, namely, on the agenda under point 7. The proposal for a law on borrowing, debt and guarantees in BiH envisioned a first reading. You suggested changing the agenda and, for that reason, we asked for a break and, here's what we're going to say about your proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4481	Thank you. We've been consulting a little bit. So the truth in the agenda says first reading and we've already done it. I believe that another reading, if there is no agreement, that we are not going to another reading, that it is not necessary today to have it at this session. 21 Therefore, it is my vision. If we have consent, so far there has been a rule, if we agree to another reading, to go to another reading at the same session. But the rule is, the Rules of Procedure said first reading, first reading, and after that when there was another session, etc. I don't know if there's any reason we should discuss this in particular today. Let's see what kind of attitude we'll take. My opinion, if there is no agreement that we can end with this point today, with the first reading, and that the next, as it goes, second reading with amendments such as, in fact, prescribed in the Rules of Procedure, should not actually be quoted. Okay, I see that no one opposes my thinking like this, which I said out loud. So, we completed the first question on the proposal for a law on borrowing, debt and guarantees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and adopted the Law in the first reading. Today we do not plead, therefore, on the amendments. We move to the next point, or here they warn me that we have a delay from the beginning or from the first part of our session, it's point three. We return to point 3 because the conditions have been met according to our conclusion from the beginning, that is, when this point was. Ad.3. Explanation of the House of People on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, meanwhile, turned up Deputy Minister of Finance and Treasury Mr. Kumalić. Mr. Kumalić, we delayed this because no one was from the ministry. The question was referred to to explain the request. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4482	When it comes to VAT law, i.e. the Value Added Tax Act, it is generally known that preparations for the introduction of that legal form, given its application technology, lasts up to seven years. Similar cases were in Croatia. She, instead of ending up... delayed a year's reception. Both Serbia and Macedonia have worked alike. So our Council of Ministers has overestimated its possibilities and, indeed, there are no objective conditions, is late in all stages of the implementation of preparations, so that the law cannot be applied from 1.7.2005, but should be extended on 1.1.2006, to point out immediately that for this and all international financial institutions, as well as, in view of the fiscal year that it is going on, then that the registration of taxpayers has not been carried out, that there was no capacity, that practically now it has completed almost 70% of the capacity of the Directorate for indirect taxation and can only begin on 1 June with the registration of taxpayers, value added tax. Therefore, given that this deadline is quick to expire, it is necessary to pass this law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, meaning its application not to go from 1.7.2006 but since 1.1.2006. 22 Also, it is late for the establishment of an information system, and it is known that without that system, then it is late for education, I believe that you know that only a few of the first previous education of large taxpayers, large systems, and that only the second phase is now to pass a law on, a rule on the application of the VAT law, and it is necessary without these laws, can literally not be implemented by the taxpayers. Therefore, I ask this home to accept this argument and that this law should be passed by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4483	Thank you, Mr. Kumalić. Who wants to argue? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4484	Thank you for giving me your word. Of course, these discussions of mine today will turn out to be quite similar, and here are the different questions. That's mostly because the reasons for even reporting are very, very similar. Namely, it is evident that, distinguished colleagues and distinguished colleagues, that our reforms are late, that we are not going, that is one of those laws that we appreciated that it is extremely important to bring it in by the end of last year, and you remember very well how we were convinced of the need to do so, in order to start from 1.7. At the initial stage, quite clearly, the international community said that objectively we could not do it until the year. So, early 2006. We, our executive authority, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and others in the public are full of optimism, convincing everyone around us that we are able to do this at the beginning, or mid- o.g. Unfortunately, it has proved that we are not able to do that and what is constantly missing, that is to answer the question, who is responsible for the question of why this happened, that we are now finding that there are no preconditions for the implementation of this law. In the end, we are again the last to know that it will be, because a whole series of interviews in the past month or two, so practically if you want, right after we passed the law, they heard from the responsible people saying that it would be relonged. So basically we're, here we are again by procedure, which basically means we don't have options except we can discuss it like this, we don't have the possibility of intervention in that sense. So, according to the hasty procedure, a fine set deadline awaits, and, of course, we as voting machines will perform or not perform our task. I want to draw attention to the fact that this law and a set of other laws in this tax matter will have extremely important consequences for all of us, especially for certain categories of our citizens. On the occasion of adoption and of this law, but also of the Taxation Act, we have obliged the Council of Ministers first of all, and the Directorate for Direct Taxation of Certain Obligations, which we have specified by the deadlines, and we are all here to bear witness that nothing has been done and that the obligations of the Council of Ministers have been received from both homes, because the agreed conclusions have been made, and none of us has thought of taking advantage of this opportunity, so that the implementation plan or plan for the 23 implementation of the VAT Act to be seen, and I have heard that there is, however, no one can think of putting that in mind for us representatives to tell us our vision about it. Of course, there is no action plan from which the implementation of the relevant social programmes, for which we have committed our council of ministers, which will, therefore, be reduced by certain negative effects of the application of the VAT Act, to the socially most vulnerable categories of the population. I personally think that this is the moment, that first of all we ask the responsibility of the Management Board for indirect taxation and, that it would be much more appropriate that instead of Mr. Kumalić, who clearly cannot bear the responsibility that the people of the Department of Immaculate Taxation came and that he would explain it nicely to us, it would be even better if they had told us last year that they had set a deadline, so it was two years later, but that we know that it would be, but not as you put it into the law today, add two more months. I would like it only to be so much, when it comes to this law and there is no dilemma that the implementation of a set of these laws and VAT and the Excise Taxation Act will have a direct reflection on the standard of life of our citizens, especially individual categories, and that in this segment, here, and once this deadline has been extended, if it is not done properly, we will also have the findings that we have here at the end of the year. When we look at the justification for this law, here, there are really certain things that are in the domain of absurdity. This sets out the obligation to report by the end of March 2005, bonds. We have now heard that nothing has been done, then, if the deadline is not met, the Value Added Tax Act provides for additional penalties, etc. Of course, there will be none of these penalties either, because the VAT Act will practically come into effect only at the end of this year and I fear that in the context of the overall activities of the reform implementation, this is one real proof of our slowness, and until yesterday we were inclined to criticise all those who, with good intent, warned of the need to provide more effective work, more effective work, more responsible work for those who are the bearers of the reform process, and by yesterday you also remember at our last session that Prime Minister Terzić tried to respond to some of my views presented in the debate to convince me that all ministers are reformed, and I see these days that this is not exactly the same and that in fact, here is a real example, which shows that even a little and not only a little, but in certain cases, and we are extremely irresponsiblely referring to why we are building our hands and what we are building into the law. Having in mind, therefore, these elements imply that I am not prone, as I have not been inclined to support an emergency procedure either, but I am not particularly inclined to go over this easily and if a conclusion was adopted that would trigger the procedure of the members of the Management Board of the Impaired Taxation Board, if, of course, the minister, the deputy and these people in the ministry were clean, if they were willing and had no responsibility, then since then, without any remorse, they would have chosen to give yet another chance. Otherwise, of course I'm not inclined to uphold this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4485	Thank you. Who else wants to participate in the debate? Mr. Zno. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4486	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed guests and everyone else. I think I'm obliged to report, speak a few words because I asked a parliamentary question and in terms of prolonging from the date of implementation of the VAT in Bosnia and Herzegovina and I didn't get an answer and it's logical now that I don't even have to expect it, because the answer becomes pointless. As it seems, to me, if it's not pointless then this VAT talk in the full amount of its meaning is, least of all, inconclusive, so incomprehensible, and the way it's done and it comes out of normal behavior. I am saying this because the VAT in its legislative project in that first phase has experienced an absolute engagement of one and the other home of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament. After that, he experienced, or our commission work, a breakdown solely because of what is stated as an absolute reason for the rate, the appropriate rate, which is the time of implementation of this law. We, ladies and gentlemen, have all agreed against ourselves to give up both our own beliefs and the pressure and demands of the public, whose representative we are in this House. At the end of last year, we failed our own electoral body, the people who sent us here on behalf of the improvement of the state that has been promised us through the implementation and this hastily implementation of this law since the 1.7th year of this year. And therefore absolutely no one can, nor can anyone convince me of any reason, or any reason to justify the movement of the date of implementation of this law. After that, we've experienced, we all know, a media lynch. To me, the Council of Ministers, not the Department of Direct Taxation, but gentlemen, we and the words and images were the top theme of our media for a month. Believe me, I remember well, then I was ashamed, because I personally gave up my belief of a higher rate on behalf of the expert groups of special experts who convinced us not to. But at the end of the day, let's be honest, they made us agree to something that was said to be better than what we had already agreed to before. And that's why I'm here as a man instead of waiting for answers, because I don't need him to ask a parliamentary question anymore, I'm really protesting everything that's been going on. Unfortunately, it's still happening in this country around VAT. Because if anything had to work, it literally had to. I remember exactly when the personnel had to be ready by 1.4, until a list of all companies, businesses - 1.6, when it was supposed to be at full capacity to enter and implement the law – 15.6, 1.7. just make everything right, do the job and make this poverty and the poor state suddenly rich. That was really a priority. And on behalf of that priority, we've agreed to what we are. We hid from people because we didn't know how to explain it. How are we gonna explain to him if he knows I asked for one, and I voted for another. And that's why I'm not going to talk about voting right now. Thank God, this is how it is. Unfortunately, we can't get away from him, just be ashamed of us and beg that this situation never happens to us again in these positions. Thank you very much. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4487	I thank Mr. Zrn. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Đoko Pajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4488	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I will be very brief. I've been meaning to say a lot, but all this stuff Mr. Limov and Mr. Zrno said I had in mind that I'm not going to say again, but I really wanted to say that when we passed this law, I didn't vote for the law for these reasons that were already in question. We were under pressure to fear that we had to adopt this law with a unique rate, although all of what Mr. Zrna and Mr. Limov said was the belief that this was a bad solution when we passed that law and now I am standing at the point of view that it was a bad solution and that the law had to go with differentiated rates, but that is when it was said it must be adopted when it was adopted to apply from that date on 1.7.2005. And since I didn't vote for the law then, and this time, I'm going to be held back for those reasons and on the proposal for amendments and additions to this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4489	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? There are no more reports. And I'd only say two sentences. Mostly what was said by Mrs Zrn, Lim and Pajić, I could support, however, I would ask several very specific questions, or suggest that we, after today's adoption of the law, of course, organise a debate and invite the most responsible people from the Directorate for indirect taxation and from the Council of Ministers, or the Resolute Ministry to inform Parliament, or the House about the stage of preparation and the appearance and plan of the dynamics of these preparations, and whether it is realistic and what should be done to speed up to be really 1.1 next year the date of application of the VAT. I think that this is a key issue and that Parliament needs to be informed about it and that we should then be truly quality informed firsthand. And this is all said, let's be realistic and then it was questionable whether it would be possible or realistic to plan 1.7 this year to start that application. So we said optimistic let's put it on and hurry if it's possible, etc. Let's be realistic and open. Here's one thing I'm thinking of doing so that even I would turn this thinking here into a conclusion, if the Dom is in the mood to mean with this kind of content, with a message like this. So, I don't know what time, month or two days away, we're going to ask for information from the rest of the ministry, or the Council of Ministers and the Direct Taxation Authority, to inform us at which stage all preparations are needed for the introduction of the VAT from 1.1 next year. Twenty-six, Mr. Pamuk.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4490	I also welcome you and it is clear that it seems to me that at the moment we talked about the VAT with the skeptics we received this date and these deadlines. But the truth is that the Council of Ministers assured us that it could, that it could be achieved and that it was some kind of imperative to make some better improvements and that this country would go a little faster. But what I want to say here right now is that we, by adopting this law, have agreed that the Council of Ministers should come before this assembly with a social programme so that they know how to mitigate the bad effects of the people, at the first moment of the VAT. That deadline has long passed, and it seems to me that this law, or this project, is not even as far as it is, or if it is, then I don't believe that any of my fellow MPs know where we are by now. I would ask that we have a single conclusion on this adoption, that the Council of Ministers, since it has not maintained the deadline as it has so far since this Parliament has been working in this Chamber, not a single deadline, not one agreed deadline, the Council of Ministers has maintained, it would be good for us to have respect for the public, above all, and then respect for MPs and MPs, through a report on what they have done, how long they have done, and when we can expect this project, because it is normal for MPs and MPs, whether or not they communicate with citizens. Very often they find themselves in very delicate situations when it should explain to the public what it is done by what we have made as a decision. It is quite clear that, in my opinion, the people are already looking at our decisions suspiciously, with skepticism. If, if the Council of Ministers that we've appointed, which we've given consent to work towards this house, doesn't keep a single decision, then it's very strange what can be expected. So, my proposal is to get a report from the Council of Ministers as far as we came with the social programme and when definitely the social programme will come before this Parliament and when the public will know how the Council of Ministers thinks to protect the endangered categories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4491	I thank Mr. Pamuk. Mr. Limov, for the second time, just information.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4492	I'm not going to do this part of the agenda anymore, but in order to end this with conclusions that could be, or compatible, or maybe even the same as at the House of Representatives, which are roughly as follows. 1. The Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina undertakes to deliver to the People's House a plan to implement the VAT law, firstly, a concrete plan and 27 2. To deliver an action plan to the Council of Ministers for the implementation of social programmes which will reduce the negative effects of the application of the VAT Act on the socially most vulnerable categories of population and to determine this by 1.7, so until the time limit when we should have started. At least to make it so we can go on vacations and tell everyone how we've created assumptions that we can look into people's eyes.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4493	Thank you, Mr. Limov. This was about what was already said. So it would be two conclusions, if I could sublime this now. The first conclusion would refer to the commitment of the Council of Ministers and the Directorate for Direct Taxation to inform the House about preparations for the introduction of the VAT at the scheduled time. I think this is the point, so here's the point. So let's see how far the apps have come and give their assessment of whether the job can be done, all that needs to be done by 1.1 and that it can start applying 1.1 next year. And this second conclusion that Mr. Mustafa Pamuk suggested was already repeated here by Mr. Lim. I think we can go with these two conclusions. Can we do it this way, but first about the law of course. Okay, I see that this is, that there's no one else to add, or there's no need for more debate. I call on us to declare the law in accordance with Article 100(3), there is no amendment. We declare ourselves to the Law under Article 100(2). Rules of Procedure. I call for a statement on the law. You can vote. Here I am warned from the Professional Service that we will have to do this vote again and in our old way, classically raising the charts, because something with the technique, it seems to me wrong, needs to be reset. I call on us to declare therefore the VAT Act, i.e. amendments and additions to the VAT Act. Who's in? Against? Abstained? Thank you. I find that with 10 votes in favour, 1 against and 3 abstentions, we have adopted amendments and additions to the VAT Act. 28 Let’s go to conclusions. We heard the text of the conclusion, I don't think we should repeat it. I'm giving a statement of conclusion. Who's in favor of the conclusions? Who's in? Both conclusions. I thank and realize that, unanimously with 14 votes, we have adopted the proposed conclusions. That's what we're done with this agenda point. Let's go to the next one, and that's Ad.8. A report on the business of the Financial Business Audit Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions has been received by the Commission's report. The House of Representatives adopted the report. I'm opening a debate on this agenda item. Who wants to talk? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I'm calling for a statement on the report. We can do it electronically now. The technique has improved. Thank you. I agree that with 13 votes in favour, we unanimously adopted a report on the business of the Financial Business Audit Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2004 institutions. Moving to the ninth point of the Ad.9 agenda. Report on the work of the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2004 You received the report. You've received a report from the commission. The House of Representatives adopted the report. I'm opening a debate on the election break-up of this point. Mr. Ilija Filipović. Here you go, Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4494	Ladies and gentlemen and all those present who follow the work of today's session so very briefly 2-3 sentences on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which had this report on the work of the Election Commission on the 12th of this month. We are without debate on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, because for certain reasons no one has appeared from the Election Commission decided to forward the House to the People's House, so in further procedure for discussing and deciding on this report, so that they would not be braked so that it would happen soon in both homes, since the House of Representatives discussed and accepted this report. There have been some reflections on this report, but we said 29 that we were not going to make any conclusions, but all of us who want to say something about it, since we didn't have any people present from the Electoral Commission, we couldn't get adequate answers, we knew that we would have people here from the Election Commission, so at the House, and these questions could be asked. So he doesn't answer twice for a word, just one more sentence. So one of my personal views, not the Commission's position, I think this report is a very good report. I recommend that after the debate this House accept such a report of the Election Commission, because this report, which was made in a pedantic, precise very extensive manner, is therefore about all the activities of last year's elections, through the implementation of the laws which are within the power of the electoral commission, there is a huge, huge work of this state-run institution. I think we have read this report and I think we will all have our own judgment on that, in relation to the recommendations made in this report, so on two important things that take account of in the coming period, and that as soon as possible, they are able to do so in this kind of technical sense and thus enable the staffing of this election commission which has an extremely, extremely important task in implementing those laws that are put into power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4495	I thank Mr Filipović. Who's next to the word? Mr. Đoko Pajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4496	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and fellow delegates, the report on the work of the BiH Election Commission has been done I consider quite quality with a lot of data, but I have few dilemmas left. I don't know representatives of the BiH Election Commission tomorrow. Of course, I read it, but I'd like to have a few notes and a few questions and a few suggestions. Now we'll see how much I can elaborate in five minutes. So here's the first part of the report: what all BiH Election Commission was doing during election preparations, during elections, after elections, etc. etc. and it is said, of course, in the preparation of elections that a lot has been done, a series of regulations, instructions, etc. etc. And on page 11, there is one item where he says despite meeting the tasks of municipal electoral commissions, according to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Electoral Law, there remains a lack of understanding on the powers and competencies of municipal electoral commissions. I claim, too, whether out of ignorance of the powers, or abuse of the powers of certain members of the municipal electoral commissions, I return to my electoral unit in Bijeljina that there have been abuses of powers by the municipal electoral commission, in particular one man who, as I now claim, has misused his powers and his position and has contributed greatly to the irregularities of the election in the Electoral Unit of Bijeljina 092B seems to me, I can't remember now the memory that the number was wearing. 30 The Election Commission has been said to have done a series of instructions and rules on how to conduct the elections. For example, in the procedure itself, a directive on the appointment of members of the electoral committees has been adopted. And in that manual it was regulated to name members of election committees. The previous one goes, of course, from scratching, the order of political parties that go to the selection elections, which belong to the polling post and, of course, to certain deadlines, all political entities have the right to submit their proposals to members of election committees, their deputies and, of course, their reserves. I also want to say clearly and loudly this time that it was the right municipal electoral commission to abuse. The jiggling went the way it was done. It doesn't matter, regular, but when we were delivering proposals for members of the election boards and their deputies and reserve, we made a quality proposal, in the interest of making it more effective for these people to be, because we know them best, to be as good as possible, to have the right professional equipment, high, higher, to have experience in the work of election committees etc. etc. And of course we suggested for which members of the election committees that people. Answering people to those polling stations we got from the draw. However, the president, or secretary of that election commission, has said only you names and last names, you have no right to suggest anything. The way I cut you off, that's how it's gonna be. And, of course, he took advantage of his right and members of the election boards from the list of 150 people, deliberately he chose the worst ones. He left out people with high gear who have experience in the work of election committees, etc., set up according to his opinion, says you do not have the right to appeal. We complained. Of course, the appeal has been rejected and I think that the manual, this instruction on the appointment of members of the electoral committees, should be amended in a way that, after the execution of the drawup, political subjects should propose to the highest quality people in members of the electoral committees and their deputies, so that these election committees and the complete electoral process function with will, rather than leaving them at the will of those individuals to decide as they wish. The second thing, said here, is that several complaints have been filed, not a few requests, how many complaints have been filed on the election process itself, i.e. the election results, were rejected as much as rejected, etc., for example on page 25 has under regular number 44 Serbian Radical Party RS The Municipal Committee of Bijeljina, rejected the request for a re-counting of votes. I'm back because of what I said earlier, on several election boards we've been drastically stolen. Within the prescribed deadline, under the BiH Election Law, I objected to the Municipal Election Commission, which, of course, rejected the objection. Following the publication of the results by the RS Election Commission, in accordance with Article 5 of points 30 and 5.31. The election law of BiH, within the prescribed deadline, has been appealed to the Republic Election Commission, with an explanation detailing that we have been stolen from us by a parliamentary mandate. That Article 5.30 and 5.31 clearly states that the political party and the subject after the publication of the results have the right to appeal with a request for a re-counting of votes, with the presence of an authorised representative of the political party, parties and coalition, who considers it stolen. And I say again, it's illogical, we delivered it to the people who are candidates, the committee candidates, at a certain polling post. The candidate voted in favour of himself normally, his entire family voted, the neighbours voted, and there was no vote in the polling post and, worst of all, there are no invalid ballots. 31 This happened in several polling stations, where we did not have our own members of the electoral committees or where we had only those imposed on us by that member of the municipal electoral commission, etc. Therefore, I cannot accept this report as it is, but again, I suggest that this directive on the appointment of members of the electoral committees be detailed in order to regulate that political parties, coalitions and all those entities who go to the elections have the right to have their opinion, when proposing members of the electoral committees, in all cases, where these people meet the conditions prescribed by this manual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4497	I thank Mr. Pajić. Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4498	Unlike the esteemed Mr Đoka Pajić, I will vote for the adoption of this report, especially I would like to use this opportunity to warn the fact that this report alone came as a consequence of the election law. And, just as it comes to the Election Law, it is the obligation that we have made when we were admitted to the Council of Europe and when it is given a year to bring the Election Law into line, or to amend and install certain, above all, international character conventions, which will allow us to have an Electoral Law, suitable countries that are members of the Council of Europe. We know how many years have passed since our deadline and it certainly speaks of our true credibility as a candidate and for some other institutions, because many forget that our trip to Brussels goes over and not bypassed... What I want to say in particular is, first of all, this recommendation and, practically, these recommendations, which are given at the end of this report, could be one platform for action, but what's missing is to see who needs to do what, because I'm afraid if it stays on this alone, I don't doubt that we're going to adopt this report today, but if that's all that remains, I don't think we're going to benefit. It seems to me that it would be good to, of course, establish, on the basis of this or for the adoption of this report, certain obligations and directions, further activities to see what to do, in terms of certain changes, additions, because it is quite evident from the recommendations that we will have to intervene with the Election Law and in this respect we will need to do in an appropriate manner and in time to do certain tasks. Let us remember last year how we tortured here, in which way we will ensure that national minorities, however, are represented in the bodies of the local government in BiH as members of the Council of Europe, and, when we have determined everything, thinking that we have done something, and I know at the last moment, it has been concluded that what we have done is not valid, so four more years of BiH, remains a black hole in that segment. The general elections are next year, and I think what's going on today is going to need to be done with our activities, first of all in the direction of an appropriate update, or should I say so, our activities, based on which we would come up with the real electoral lists. There are some data that speak of that in relation to the number of people on our central polling list, about 200 or I don't know, some say even 240 thousand and 32 deviations from those documents issued through the CIPS project. The CIPS project should end in a way and at a time when it can enable us and serve as an extraordinary basis to get to the right lists and to go with them into the next election activity, therefore, general elections, planned next year. In any case, personally bearing in mind the overall atmosphere of our relationship against the reform processes, I am not too optimistic that we will meet everything we owe, and in terms of amending and supplementing our electoral law, to bring it into line with standards, which will not question our position in the Council of Europe, so I am not too optimistic. I'd like to fool myself, I'd like to spend the next few months, through an intensive activity, doing as much work as possible on that plan, and not having us on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and even at this home, we're making conclusions regarding the election commission, and I'm guessing that the members of the Electoral Commission would not be able to answer the question of the contents of these conclusions, which we've committed them to, because in fact, we've washed our own advice and simply taken it off as a burden from ourselves. I think it is necessary to make one strategy in this respect and do as much as possible by the end of this year, because when the activity comes ahead of the next election, there, we will certainly not be productive and will not respond to the task, which, when we want it to be invoiced, and even if some, as we like to say technical obstacles to entry or access to European or Euro-Atlantic integrations, which, when we eliminate them, will come back to us, this question is undisturbed and we will surely have to answer our task in this respect, and I am not convinced that we are all seriously considering that this is necessary and that in particular I do not see that the working bodies are sufficiently capactified to be able to answer this task in a quality way, and in this respect, this is an opportunity for us to invite people from the Election Commission, to provide us with appropriate assistance and to give us in a certain way of common efforts in this legitimate way, so to respond to the element of answering to our task, and to the practicality, which we will be able to make all the documents, which we make it in fact, in fact, which we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4499	I thank Mr. Limov. No more reports. I'd just like two sentences. In addition to all that is said, I think it would be good if the Electoral Commission, possibly supplement or partially amend some of the implementing rules, and above all I think of those who have defined how to make voter lists. Because apparently so far, I don't know the last few choices these lists have been missing. Somewhere in some places and significantly missing, and we have citizens' objections, who get angry when they're not found. They cannot exercise their right to vote and then simply act in such a way as to deter others, except that they do not want to vote. I think this is very important and important and that it really needs to be done in this part of the significant forward movement to simplify it and make it more efficient and simpler to record and make voting lists, all those who have the right to participate in the elections. This is my thinking and mom's contribution to this debate. If there are no more reports, I would like to approach the adoption of this, or the explanation of this report, and, 33 here, I announce that we will now have one break of an hour, because we have protocol obligations long before agreed, members of the College must be accepted by the Chinese delegation of the Chinese Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4500	...the governor of the National Bank, can we just drink this report, because it's a few minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4501	...we have to make a statement, but the three of us really have to welcome representatives of the Chinese Parliament. It doesn't make any sense to delay it. I invite you to come forward with this report. You can vote. Here you go. I agree that with 13 votes to, 1 vote against, we adopted a report on the BiH Election Commission's 2004 work. We're going to have to really go on this commitment right now, and if you're in the mood, is that it makes sense, that the club president takes over the presidency and keep working, because these aren't the end... of the difficult point. That's what you say, if you're in the mood, we'll be 45 minutes, that's what we have to do, that's the obligation. We can't avoid that at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4502	So we're at the 10th point on the agenda. Consideration of the BiH Central Bank's annual report for 2004 under (a) and under (b) a financial report. You've received a report from the commission. The House of Representatives adopted both reports. And I'm opening a debate on this point of the agenda and under a) and under b). There's no record of a hearing. Does the governor feel the need to say something about this? I think as the governor goes out for a pay phone, it would be good for the public to say something about the World Bank announcements about Carensiboard. I think it's a good opportunity to say it in the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4503	The esteemed presidency, esteemed MPs, first of all, I would like to thank you for the honor given to you and for your resignation, as the esteemed MP said, that it was because of the Central Bank and its... I would certainly have waited for no problem, but, well, here's a better way to finish this. First of all, you have received our report and you can freely say that another successful year is behind the Central Bank, and in this report you will see that there are several parts of the Bosnian-Herzegovina economy, the activities of the Central Bank, the state of the banking sector and the financial report. 34 When we talk about BH economy, it can be said that last year it was, that the judi-pi in BiH grew by 6% and that inflation was at 0.6%, that the Central Bank was working on the principle of the currency board, that there were no violations of that principle, two macro-economic indicators, still worry that there was something special done in that field, and that it was... a trade deficit, which was around 33 – 34% of the coverage of exports by imports, and, also, the amount or unemployment rate, is also very high, and if the grey economy is involved, it is about 18%. Also, that level of gray economy, according to our estimates, is about 35 to 38%, which is also one, I would say a big problem for all those who run the economy. for all levels of government in BiH. When it comes to this foreign trade deficit and this sector with the World Bank, we responded immediately and I think that at the same time when foreign exchange reserves are growing, because we have had the highest level of foreign reserves since the establishment of the Central Bank and they are 3 billion 523 million and have been increased this year by 80 million KM. There is no danger of the stability of the conversion mark in this period. Of course, in the long run, we have to deal with these macroeconomic indicators, what I was saying, which are bad for BiH, and surely they are one potential danger. How it is financed by this... it is difficult to explain economically and how this weakens macroeconomic indicators when it comes to external trade deficits and that foreign reserves are growing. First of all, it is funded by several sources, which is mostly through the BH diaspora, so somewhere around a billion euros comes either through the banks or informal channels through the personal contacts of our diaspora and our people living in BiH. Then, there is still a high degree or number of foreigners in our country, so they have a certain consumption, paying rent, paying food costs, clothes, etc. Then, we still have one level of credit and donation that is getting smaller, and then we have one part of the impact of the gray economy, which the only positive has is that people who are forced to find employment in an informal sector, yet one part of their earnings later spend all of it paying directors, I don't know certain obligations etc. So it has an impact on that amount, too. What's the solution? I think that we agree with the World Bank in the sense that we most point to these macroeconomic indicators and our authorities should start dealing with employment programmes as soon as possible, and if they have started in the privatisation sector, to end up getting this sector ready and what is healthy, to create new jobs, because it certainly has a long-term danger. So, we've given our view that there's no danger for Carensibord, as long as foreign exchange reserves grow and... Of course, again, we can't view it as some kind of automation, but we need to look for solutions, and I think that the Council of Ministers and the entity governments need first of all to deal with this data. So, it's important to say that we, too this year, made a profit of 30 million KM in 35 things last year, and that for the first time this year we transferred 30% of that profit, means 18 million and 300,000 marks to the institutions of the BiH state, i.e. The Treasury and Finance Department has already received these funds. A financial report audited by an external auditor... and we've received an assessment of the unreserved that our financial report shows one fair state, one fair position and application of all international standards. I can tell the esteemed House that the first quarter, too, says that this business trend of the Central Bank continues and that we even have better indicators than it was last year. I hope you get a chance to talk to us next year about some profit and the part that we're going to transfer to joint institutions. Thank you again for this opportunity to speak to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4504	...in an act of voting to make a statement on both the annual and the financial reports. However, since we can only be named here, we cannot vote with these cards, I call on us to vote by lifting, I call on delegates to declare who is for the adoption of the Central Bank's annual and financial report for 2004. Who's in? Thank you. All present delegates voted in favour of the report. Therefore, an annual and financial report by the Central Bank of BiH for 2004 was adopted unanimously. We're going to the 11th point of the agenda. Ad.11. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, improving the material organisational skills of the BiH Prosecutor's Office in 2004 and the state of crime in BiH in 2004 You received a report from the committee in charge. The House of Representatives made the information known. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone there? Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4505	Well, given the circumstances in which we're doing this, I'm just going to ask if there's anyone in the D.A.'s office here? Perhaps it would be good to address with a few introductory notes, and see if there is any need for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4506	Thank you. So, we have a deputy prosecutor here, as far as I can see and call the deputy prosecutor, if he feels the need, here's a basic indication of the report to present the House, I think it would be useful. I'll ask the gentleman to present himself for a stenogram for the record. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4507	Dear MPs, ladies and gentlemen, we have written a report and it has been sent to you for introduction, and believe that today we have learned from the prosecutor that we must go, since you have a written report, I hope we should make a statement. Therefore, if there were any questions we might be able to answer, without the chief prosecutor's presence possible, as she arrived today.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4508	As the governor of the Central Bank can come, it would be good for the DA, every year he finds a way not to come.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4509	I just have to point out that the chief prosecutor was present on the committee and when we talked about this report, he was there all the time and we talked and we talked very thoroughly about the report and the attorney general was present.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4510	And now he's in the South African Union. So he couldn't come, he couldn't escape.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4511	Is there anyone else who wants to? Mr. Zno. Thank you. Since there are no requests for discussion, I therefore call on delegates to re-elevate who is to call for information, i.e. this would be receiving information to know. Who's in? Thank you. Anybody got any abstentions? So 1 vote abstention, others for. I find, therefore, that information has been received and we move to the 12th point of the agenda. Ad.12. (a) Information on all current and future missions of BiH Armed Forces, with a report from the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy, and (b) Information on the participation of police officers in peacekeeping missions, with a report from the Joint Defence and Security Policy Commission, the House of Representatives took note of this information at its 52nd session. I would like to point out that we had a review of this information on the agenda at the 38th session of the House of Peoples on February 22nd, but the review was postponed due to the absence of the applicant. Of course, the above-mentioned Joint Defence Commission has discussed these reports, and I suggest that we hold a hearing on the reports in a manner 37 at the same time, and I call on those present to report for discussion. Mr. Pajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4512	Well, I don't say hello every time I get up. I think there's someone from the Department of Defense or the Bureau? There's no one else. Well, then there's no point in me discussing it. I already asked a question at the beginning of the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4513	Thank you. Mr. Šiljegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4514	I feel the need, at the beginning of the session was attended by Deputy Minister Enes Bećirbašić, but, given that both information was on the joint commission of both homes for defence and security. We considered it necessary, today I have consulted with the members of the College and we have allowed Mr Bećirbašić to leave, for the reason that this is now the information of the Joint Committee on Parliamentary Oversight. I think that's enough, here are the members of the Commission, including me, that we can, because this is now the information of our parliamentary commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-18-0.u4515	Thank you. In other words, a member of the College, at least temporarily, gave consent to the proposing representatives to leave the sitting and carry, of course, all consequences. I call on those present, since there are no reports of the discussion that, therefore, in one act and for information on the missions of members of the armed forces and for information on the participation of police officers in peacekeeping missions, we will again declare by raising the charts. Who's in? I find that both information has been received unanimously. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.13. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports You have received a report from the competent commission. This agreement, by the way, has been present somewhere in the Council of Ministers for a long time. It's been a long time since he came to Parliament. Unfortunately, it has no value until it is ratified and until Parliament gives consent to ratification. I note this because the representatives of the Bulgarian government have intervened. So now we're in front of that act. You've received a report from the committee responsible. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this convention. I'm opening the debate. If anyone has a need... there are no reports. 38 I call upon delegates to declare who is in favour of giving consent to ratifying this agreement? Thank you. So the delegates unanimously agreed to give consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic official passports. Moving to point 14. Ad.14. Giving consent to the ratification of the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovenia on mutual assistance on customs matters I am in a bit of a hurry, so that this last point, the confirmation of this college for permanent composition, can vote. You've received a report from the committee in charge. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this convention. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I call upon the delegates to state who is in favour of giving consent to ratifying this convention. Thank you. I agree that the delegates unanimously agreed to ratify the Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Slovenia on mutual assistance on customs matters. Moving to point 15. Ad.15. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on the Promotion and Protection of Investments between BiH and the Kingdom of Denmark The report of the committee responsible has been received either by the report. The House of Representatives has given its consent to ratify this Convention. I'm opening a debate. Thank you. No priors. I call upon the delegates to declare who is in favour of giving consent to ratifying this agreement? Thank you. The delegates unanimously voted in favour of ratifying the Agreement on the Promotion and Protection of Investments between BiH and the Kingdom of Denmark. Moving to point 16. Ad.16. Giving consent to ratifying the VI amendment to the Financial Assistance Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the United States for municipal infrastructure and services You have received a report from the committee responsible. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this agreement. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I call on the delegates to come forward who's in favor of giving consent? Thank you. The present delegates unanimously voted in favour of ratifying the VI amendment to the BiH-US Financial Assistance Treaty. 39 Ad.17. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on border traffic and co-operation You have received a report from the committee responsible. The House of Representatives also voted in favour of ratifying this convention. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I call on the delegates to plead when he's in favour? Thank you. The present delegates unanimously agreed to ratify the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on border traffic and co-operation. Moving to point 18. Ad.18. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the mutual abolition of visas You have received a report from the competent commission. The House of Representatives has adopted consent to ratify this agreement. I'm opening a debate. Thank you. There are no reports. I call on the delegates to come forward who's in favor of giving consent? I agree that the delegates unanimously voted in favour of the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the mutual abolition of visas. We then exhausted what was on the agenda. The seat's finished at 5:00.
