ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-09-0.u4407	Dear colleagues, I ask that we sit in our seats so that we can start working and have these cards, so that we have, here, ladies and gentlemen, honored envoys, honored guests, representatives of public information funds, all of which I welcome, open the 41st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. All 15 envoys are present at the session, so there is no comment, it is a full composition. For the 41st session, I suggest the following updated agenda, 1. Confirmation of appointment of members of the Croatian People's Presidency, 2. Proposal for a Resolution on Antifascism, Proposer Tomislav Limov I am opening a debate on the agenda proposal. Who's calling for a hearing? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going home, and that's how the agenda was adopted, so I'm going straight to the first item of the agenda, Ad.1. Confirmation of the appointment of a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency Perhaps before here, we should approach the statement itself, I would also like to agree that within this point it is also allowed to discuss the terms and conditions of Mr Dragan Čović's shift, by the High Representative, because it was one of the demands of the Croatian Club, however, since there was no joint plenary session, then here is our position and our thinking, that we should, within the framework of this point, allow and accept that and also discuss it. Here, it's just an introduction. I'm opening the debate. I'd say a few words. Ladies and gentlemen, the replacement of Mr Dragan Čović's presidency by the High Representative was based and founded as it says in the Decision, on Annex X to Article 5 of the Civil Implementation of the Peace Agreement. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have already become a practice that at least one and most of the elected members of the presidency do not welcome the end of the term of office. Of course, situations like this can happen, but they become a little rule. A while ago, a year and a half ago, 2 Mr. Šarović, Mr. Čović, before that, Mr. Jelavić in that meeting, etc. Of course, we predicted in our legislation, and such possibilities, so we regulated the Law on selecting members of the Presidency. But what I want to say about this shift is this. All earlier shifts by the High Representative that he has made, these levels, are mainly in the light of the instructions as the first and first reason, obstruction of the Peace Dayton Agreement, and Annex X of the Peace Agreement talks about civil implementation of the Peace Agreement. And then each time it is called to Article 5, which literally reads – the final authority for interpretation, so this annex is the ultimate authority for interpreting this agreement on the implementation of the peace solution. The question here is whether the High Representative acted in accordance with this annex, that is, the article he is referring to. If, in his explanation, even states otherwise, that Mr Čović consistently implemented the Dayton Peace Agreement in the exercise of his mandate, he contributed significantly to the promotion, neither I nor I, etc., the overall state of improvement of opportunities in BiH, but in the end of the shift. The change was due to a trial against Mr. Čović. However, our relevant, i.e. BiH's election law also said about the situation in this case, what is happening, so it is said that I do not quote articles, is not necessary if a elected official is legally sentenced to a sentence of 6 months, etc., loses his mandate. So again, no intervention is needed because the law, the relevant law, said in which cases the mandate is lost. So, next thing you know, there's no need for intervention. Furthermore, it is mentioned that in some EU countries and some other countries, with a highly developed democracy, it is a practice. However, when you study this practice a little bit better, it can be concluded that it is not in practice. There are, therefore, countries in the world of developed democracy and economically developed countries so that certain officials in power are being prosecuted. However, until the end of the procedure, there is no deviation. Neither does it require the public of the country, nor does it require domestic legislation, of course. So I'm here to conclude, with all the flexibility and such wide-ranging coasts in Article 5. Anexa X, it is questionable whether the High Representative should have done what he did, because I will repeat, in all previous shifts, exclusively as a reason or one of the main reasons why he was instructed to obstruct the implementation of the Peace Dayton Agreement and in the case of Mr Čović, it is not even mentioned the opposite. Here, of course we can't change anything, and I have no intention of calling ambitions on it. However, I did hold that it was good to repeat this once again and say, even though what I said here, you know, everyone, especially representatives in the bh Parliament. Why especially them? Because they are almost daily studying and rereading the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and some other laws and a particularly complete Dayton Peace Agreement. We have been reading it lately more intensively because it mentions certain shortcomings, the imperfection of this overall Peace Agreement and the need for its possible change, upgrades, changes, etc. 3 Behold, I will indeed no more, and will not trouble you with my thoughts. I think that where we are now and all we can do is follow the Law on selecting members of the Presidency where the role of the people is defined again in one specific way and again after the intervention of another High Representative, which is still well mentioned here because this is a topic. So, this look and resolution of the Law on selecting a member of the Bureau, after a shift or otherwise, inability to behave functions is again the work of the High Representative and I am not quite sure that this is a good solution, but it is a valid solution that obliges us to be honest and applied. But also here, I'm going to say my thinking that at least we should talk and assess whether this is the best way of choosing or whether we have better suggestions and better ways. It might have been good to get rid of it in a law that regulates otherwise the BiH Election Law, not in a special law, and so on. Because then the question is those provisions that apply to all elected ones, why shouldn't they also apply to a member of the Presidency or are worth it and others are worth certain means of solutions again in this Act on the selection of a member of the Bureau, which is a law lex specialis, as the lawyers say. Here, I really won't do anything else, thank you all for your attention and here's another question for everyone, whether this is how the High Representative contributes to strengthening the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina or perhaps not contributing in the best way. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Čengić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-09-0.u4408	Sir, the chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected media representatives, allow me a few words on this subject. At the risk that I might be aware that I have a personal motive to talk about this subject, even the burden of that fact, I will say the following. First of all, I consider it a legitimate proposal and a request to discuss such issues at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, because these issues are not only legal but obviously and politically, i.e. issues with very serious political reflections. In that sense, I must say, I'm surprised that our colleagues from the House of Representatives did not accept this debate. Of course, we all know that we are committed to democracy. And in democracy, you have the opportunity to discuss important issues in official, or state institutions. If we refuse, or do not agree to use these institutions to discuss key political issues, then obviously we are going back to pre-political conditions, so in situations where these issues are discussed in other places, in a different way and is being questioned by what we are doing. It is questionable whether we are building a democratic state in which we will discuss important issues through institutions, or whether we will push them to the margins of societies that can then be very negative on the long track. 4 For this reason, I find it very legitimate to discuss this issue. On the other hand, I think it was necessary to discuss this issue from the point of view of the relations between the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Office of the High Representative. The Office of the High Representative has for a long time made it clear that it wants the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to be partners in building therefore political institutions and political life in Bosnia and Herzegovina. On the other hand, almost all of us voted, each political party that is in the Parliamentary Assembly individually, and we here and in the Parliamentary Assembly also insisted that we should be in a position to open a political dialogue with OHR to be partners with OHR and to discuss important issues. I would be sorry if any of us would refrain from talking about this matter just because of the fact that the decision was made by the High Representative. This would actually be a very bad assessment for our true commitment to democracy and open dialogue on important and difficult issues, but it would also be a poor assessment for the OHR Office of the High Representative, if it did not motivate, instigated and did not create an atmosphere in which members of the state parliament would be open to deliver their opinions even when they disagree with the High Representative's decision. As far as this decision itself is concerned, it is obvious that it has been brought by one who has the opportunity to make this decision and apparently has been motivated by a very serious, very serious reason, a very serious question, which is what a moral credibility or a moral reputation of a person who is in such a high state office, who has been charged at some point with a criminal act which is also very serious. There is therefore no dilemma in this regard that there is a very serious question of credibility, the moral credibility of that person, and in some ways the institution in which that duty is being carried out. That motive must be understood, it must be taken very seriously, and there is no dilemma that he is very serious. On the other hand, it is also the fact that, in addition to this political moral motive and reason, there are very clear legal views and legal positions, above all the general principle that applies in this country and which is valid in a democratic Europe, which is the principle that no one is guilty until he is convicted. Between these two principles that are very important, one and the other, we are in a dilemma about how to commit ourselves. Obviously, moral credibility is very important for every individual and every institution, not only for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but for every individual in every institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it is obvious that between this moral credibility, which, among other things, is the subjective assessment issue, should be chosen between this and the attitude of the law and the general legal principle. The attitude of the law is also clear to us that no one is guilty until they are legally convicted and that at this time there is no clear position of the law that someone who has been charged should resign, resign, or be removed. So there's no law like that. In this case, a precedent has been made which at this time makes confusion and repercussions will be just one kind of doubt and on the other hand can open space for something that will no longer be a precedent, but will be a rule that could lead to the very serious consequences of political nature, and this time it happened that Mr Dragan Čović, as a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency, was simultaneously charged by the Prosecutor's Office of 5 Bosnia and Herzegovina. There was a possibility for a similar act to be charged by the district attorney. I don't think there's any difference in the representation and preservation of laws between municipal, cantonal, entity and state prosecutor. However, in a variant that accepts the logic by which anyone accused should automatically step down from his post. We are coming into a situation that, in fact, the human policy of institutions in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina can lead prosecutors at different levels, with different skills, with different experiences, and then we are actually introducing something that could have been much more dangerous by the principles of law and by the rule of law than the moral, immoral or less moral representation of someone at some point in office. For that reason, I believe this question is very serious. I'm afraid that neither we have material on the basis of which we could discuss this seriously, nor do we have, nor is this perhaps a good environment for such a debate, and there is no doubt that this issue opens up a very serious debate about how we behave in the future. I will be very clear, therefore, by respecting morality as the basis of everything that is human and human and even human community, I think that the right is more precise and less personal and that the behaviour of the Bosnia and Herzegovina state institutions must nevertheless be defined by law. If there is a discrepancy between some moral principles, or general moral concepts and laws, then it is this parliamentary assembly that serves to initiate and pass laws that will harmonize these differences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-09-0.u4409	I thank Mr. Čengić. Who else wants to hear from you? No more reports. Let's go, Mr Ivo Miro Jović was appointed to the 56th session of the House of Representatives, held on 4 May 2005 as a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. Article 6 is replaced by the following: The law on filling the vacancy of members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency confirms most of the envoys in the House of Peoples who belong to the same constituent people as appointed. We have heard the Election Law, in fact, the Law on filling the vacant seat of members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. If there is no further discussion, I will call on the envoys, or the Croatian People's Club in the House of Peoples, to declare the appointment of a member of the Bureau. It means Article 6 after being appointed to the House of Representatives, the majority of the envoys at the House of Peoples in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the follow-up text of the House of Peoples. Is there a need for a debate? There isn't. 6 I call on the envoys from the Order of the Croatian People's Club to plead. You can vote now. I thank and realize that with 4 votes for, 1 vote against, we have confirmed Mr. Mire Ivo Jović's election and appointment as a Croatian member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to another, here we go and congratulate Mr. Ivo Miri Jović and we want, at least I, to successfully behave as a new, very responsible and important member of the Presidency. Mr. Milovjević wants to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-09-0.u4410	I am truly sorry for the respected colleagues and distinguished guests that among us today is not Mr Ivo Miro Jović who I saw earlier at the Plenary Session of both homes and here I really want to congratulate him on this confirmed choice today and I expect that he will successfully perform his post as a member of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-09-0.u4411	Okay. I thank Mr. Milojević. Sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-09-0.u4412	Here I am, in the name of the Bosniak People's Club in this house, congratulating Mr. Jović for his election. I'd be happy to do my job in quality, and I also have to admit I'd prefer it much more if we had the opportunity to congratulate him directly on the election and that would be, I believe, better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-09-0.u4413	I thank Mr. Pamuk. Well, here we go. It seems to me to be moving to the next item of the agenda. Ad.2. The motion for a resolution on anti-fascism, proposed by Mr Tomislav Limov, you have received the resolution of Mr Lim's envoy. The House of Representatives adopted the resolution in the same text at the 56th session. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The House may decide that the resolution is first considered by the relevant committee, it is just a note. Who's answering for a word? I also call upon Mr Lim, if he considers it necessary to explain the text of the resolution. Here you go, Mr. Limov. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-09-0.u4414	Gentlemen, thank you very much, Mr. President, here are my colleagues suggesting that I be brief, saying there's no need. So, very simply this is now, in fact, a motion for a resolution coming from the House of Representatives. Since you have received the motion for a resolution, and there has been a speech at the last session, I personally assess, and given in mind what we have heard today and knowing what is happening today throughout Europe in connection with the relationship between fascism. So I personally estimate that the envoys of the House of Nations will accept this text as our clear sign of where we belong. So Bosnia and Herzegovina belongs to us in anti-fascist Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-09-0.u4415	Thank you, Mr. Limov. No further reports. It's all clear. This is also announced at our annual plenary session. I call upon you to plead with me on the acceptance of the Antifascism Resolution. You can vote now. Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted the Resolution on Antifascism, as the resolution reads, will be published in the Official Messenger of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I thank everyone. I thank you for your participation and for your work. We were effective. We worked exactly 30 minutes. Thank you all and once again, happy Antifascism and Fascism Day. The session is completed at 12.45 minutes.
