ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4187	...exelations, honored guests, presentations of public information funds, I warmly welcome you all and open the 39th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 13 envoys present at the session, of which 4 istz of the Bosniak people, 5 of the Croatian people and 4 of the Serb people. Mr. Genjac justified his absence. For the 39th session, I propose the next updated 1. Answers to envoy questions and envoy questions, 2. Record of the 38th session, 3. An indication of the House of People's request by the Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in Bosnia and Herzegovina, following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 99 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 4. The Commission therefore considers that the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 5. Resolution on the adoption of the Otva document's commitments with the programme of action of the 2002 International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) – Proposer Halid Genjac, 6. Giving consent to ratifying the Consulate Convention between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Turkey, 7. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Italy on the mutual regulation of international road transport of passengers and freight and the number 8 additions. The fill of Serbian people's seats instead of Nada Radović in the Interparliamentary Union. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Is anyone answering for a word? There's no one here. 2 If there are no proposals for changes and additions to the agenda, I find that we have adopted, we accept this agenda. Moving to the first item of the agenda Ad.1. Answer the envoy's questions and the envoy's questions, Tajniča, who got the answer from the last one?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4189	The answer was received by Mr. Milojević, he received two answers and Mr. Genjac 1 answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4190	Here I call upon Mr Milojević to declare whether and to what extent he is satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4191	I didn't get a full answer, and I'm not going to plead until I get a full answer, because I expect the Intelligence Security Service to give me, the agencies, that I'm also going to get it. It's part of a unique response.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4192	Okay. Thank you. So we'll have a statement the second time the answer is complete and complete. Mr. Genjac is not present, therefore we cannot be informed whether he is satisfied and to what extent with the answer given. Let's go to the second part of this, here's the point - The envoy's questions Mr. Tomislav Limov is answering his words. Here you go, Tomislav.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4193	Thank you, Mr. President, fellow envoys, representatives of public information and the international community, I see no one from the Council of Ministers, so I welcome you all together and want to take this opportunity and ask three questions to the Council of Ministers and the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, I'm not going to comment specifically, because from the very question, it's going to be an obvious motive. 3 1. Who is agreed that until today, the first conclusion of the 12th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has not been realized, by which the Council of Ministers and the Presidency of BiH established the obligation to install reform solutions from the field of security policy and to deliver documents to the People's House for adoption in the first quarter of 2004? 2. Which officials and bodies at the entity and at Bosnia and Herzegovina level have obstructed so far the process of filling the people in the BiH Ministry of Defence, the main headquarters of the BiH Armed Forces and the BiH Operational Command? and 3. Starting from the fact that staffing the state defence institutions is an effective control of the state-level armed forces and full co-operation with the UN tribunal, an inevitable condition for the accession of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Partnership for Peace programme, are the obstructions of the agreement of the holders of key duties in the current government, or is this a product of inability to manage the dynamics of reforms whose implementation is crucially dependent on the approximation of Bosnia and Herzegovina to European and Euro-Atlantic integrations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4194	I thank Mr. Limov. Who else wants to ask questions? Mr. Branko Zrno. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4195	I welcome you all. In fact, I don't know if speculation or truths have been going on lately, and these are about the start of implementing the VAT Act. Lately, at least I've read several times whether it's official or unofficially I don't know, that the start of administration of the VAT is delayed by 6 months or so. In order to implement the VAT, the start of the following year should be followed, i.e. 2006 although this Parliament adopted the meaning of the VAT Act and the date of application of the VAT was established in that law, i.e. 1.7 as far as I know. Who can and who has the right, even in this way, officially, or unofficially, to speak of one, in my own vital question, regardless of all the problems they are, about the use of VAT? Who I'm saying is, I repeat, that way it can extend the implementation, that is, the use of VAT, please, yes, except this Parliament? Because you know that even in one time frame, we have often deviated from our own views, and on behalf of the date of VAT implementation, because we are told that in the form in which we wanted VAT, it is not possible to access the implementation, because technically we cannot do so, only in the form in which we accepted VAT with a unique rate. I demand this answer from the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4196	I thank Mr. Zrn. Mr. Brka answered. Four, Mr. Noose, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4197	I welcome you, all members of the College, all colleagues, delegates, the media, unfortunately I can't welcome anyone from the Council of Ministers, because there's no one here. I'm sorry, so at least you can tell them we're sorry we can't say hello if I can't be there for the session. I have two questions. First question to the Council of Ministers – Who provides labour costs and funds for the salaries of prosecutors in the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina who are foreign citizens? And a second question to the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina -- who provides labour costs and funds for judges' salaries in the Court of Justice and Herzegovina who are foreign citizens? It would be good if I got the names of the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4198	I thank the gentleman. No, no, no, Who else wants to ask a question? No more reports. This concludes this item of the agenda and we move to the third point of the agenda, actually to the second point of the agenda Ad2. Record of the 38th session Is anyone answering for a word? I understand there are no reports. I call for a record statement. You can vote. I agree that we unanimously adopted the minutes from the 38th session of the House of Peoples. We're going to the third point, it's okay, somebody didn't vote, yeah. We move to the third item of the agenda, which is A.3. An indication of the House of People's request by the Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in Bosnia and Herzegovina, following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 99 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the House of the Peoples are being debated whether the Law will be considered in a shortened manner. The House of Representatives has adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to shorten the deadlines for reviewing this law. Who's answering for a word? Mr Pamuk. Mr. Pamuk, go ahead. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4199	...but in view of this complete insolence that the Council of Ministers has carried out and foresaw to this House, I propose that we interrupt the session in this place and call on the Council of Ministers to come to the session once again and try to explain why, after a brief procedure, that on all these issues, that the opening recommendations and the opening explanations, otherwise, I must admit that if we do not interrupt the session or if we resolve this without the Council of Ministers' presence, I will be forced to withdraw from the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4200	I thank Mr. Pamuk. Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4201	Thank you very much for your word. I welcome everyone. Compared to this proposal, Mr. Pamuk, I have a slightly different opinion, even though I'm, uh, sad that they're not here. So here to discuss anything, we don't have such complex points of the agenda today, but I think out of respect for this House, out of respect for the Rules of Procedure of this House, there might be some question in relation to the obvious, why a reduced procedure is required, not necessary, etc. It's not good they're not here. So, I wouldn't be to interrupt the session and stop working until someone comes because there's no one else to find, but I'd be more appropriate to take these agenda points, where the proposal of the Council of Ministers and there's no cleaning lady, get off the agenda, and we keep working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4202	Who else does? Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4203	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected media representatives, I don't know if there's anyone else I would possibly forget, given these two different proposals, I'd like to ask one 10 minute break on behalf of the club, to talk about this and find a solution before we take any of these two moves, because I don't think it's a very simple one. I'm proposing a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4204	Okay. Here's the deal, only if there's one for a longer break, another. Well, then here's to the Rules of Procedure, does Mr. Šiljegović want to, 6
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4205	Just a moment, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking the club chiefs that after this ten-minute break, where we would hold a consultation at every club, to extend our break for another 10 minutes, that the club bosses consult and go out for one of the two proposals. So we don't come here later, so we don't have to be different. I asked for 10 minutes to meet the club chiefs.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4206	So the sequel means noon and 5 minutes. In the meantime, what we've agreed on, we're going to have some consultations, let's see how we get out of this situation. Here, we didn't extend much time to consult. [[PAUZA]] We continue, we are on the third item of the agenda, and there were two proposals. Mr Mustafa Pamuk and Mr. Ilija Filipović. The topic was whether to continue to discuss materials for which we do not have a proposing representative. The clubs had consultations, they had attitudes, I invite them to a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4207	On behalf of one club or on behalf of all three clubs? So, the clubs have agreed to respect the order that the regulations here have been imposed. So, to consider all the points of the agenda, regardless of the understanding of the reaction of the House presidency member, Mr Pamuk, but here, therefore having understanding.... Here I am now and on my part joining something that is personal to me, we have agreed at the clubs to respect therefore, this order which we are normally subject to by the Regulation, to continue the work and to continue the point at which we adopt the agenda, and to discuss it and to take it off if there are no representatives. Where there are no proposing representatives, we exclude that point from the agenda. It's the common position of all clubs.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4208	I thank Mr. Neimarlija. Here we are. So Mr. Pamuk, are you,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4209	Here, I accept that attitude and I agree with it. Although I have been and suggested that we take a break, invite the Council of Ministers to be p... at points, but I now agree with this proposal and accept the proposal as Mr Neimarlija put it on behalf of all clubs. Thank you very much. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4210	I thank Mr. Pamuk for his constructive attitude. So now we have an agreement and we don't need to make that statement. So this is our common ground. We're going back to work. So we've agreed on how we're going to do point three, Ad.3. An indication of the House of People's request by the Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in BiH, following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House are under discussion, whether the law will be considered in a shortened procedure. The House of Representatives has adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to shorten the deadlines for reviewing this law. I invite the representatives of the promoter if there is one here to explain to us the reasons for this request. Mr. Akšamija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4211	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the draft law amending and supplementing the State Service Act is proposed to be considered in accordance with the procedure of Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House for these reasons, which would shorten the procedure for the reception of civil servants, especially newly formed BiH institutions. This would allow for a faster establishment of the full operational capacity of these institutions. In view of the relative start of the calendar year, it would also be possible for BiH institutions to establish an operational plan in time for the admission of new civil servants for whom activity according to current solutions does not have a firm legal foothold. In addition, this proposal, i.e. would warn the problems currently being produced, the current legal solutions in the area of disciplinary responsibility of civil servants under which a civil servant can be suspended only when criminal proceedings are initiated, which is the moment of confirmation of the indictment. Such a solution allows a civil servant to carry out official duties until that deadline, which is nevertheless unacceptable in view of the severity of the work itself, the procedure itself. Now I suggest, and here are the suggestions now that I don't explain it to you at the moment whether it is, raising certain things. There are several nomotechnical matters left and the harmonisation of the Law on State Service with three other laws accompanying the public administration in BiH institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4212	Thank you. We heard the explanation. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. Can we conclude that our requested conditions have been met? If we can, I'm calling for a statement of request. 8 You Can Vote. I agree that with 11 votes in favour, with no abstentions and no votes, with someone not voting, the Council of Ministers has accepted the request that this law be considered under a shortened procedure. Thank you. Moving to the next item of the agenda number 4, Add.4. An indication of the House of People and a request from the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a competition law by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 99 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples I call upon the representative of the motion to give an explanation of the request. There's no representative of the motionor. According to our earlier position, agreed by all three clubs, so we're taking off the agenda this point. Let's move on. The fifth item of the agenda, Add.5. The resolution on the adoption of the Otva document with the programme of action of the 2002 International Conference on Population and Development, Proposer Halid Genjac How Mr Genjac is not available at today's session and has given authority to Mr Hilmo, this is what I call on Mr Hilmo Neimarlija to explain this document on behalf of the applicant. Mr. Neimarlija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, since Mr. Genjac, a fellow Genjac, was prevented from attending today's session, asked me to on his behalf this one, I invite you to accept his motion for a resolution, which, in the same text, adopted already a House of Representatives, which you received nothing in which there is nothing, I hold in question whether, uh, for any of us. And I call on you to open this, to discuss this text without, not asking for the text to go to this, so on a special committee, because I believe that the text of the resolution is such a character that it does not really require this, especially some kind of return to the commission, a team before it was adopted by the House of Representatives. On the importance of this document and on the importance of the problem it deals with, and the proceedings against these difficult social problems to which this resolution is determined by parliamentarians, I do not think it is necessary to speak. I invite you to adopt this text of resolution after the direct debate we will have here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4214	I thank Mr. Neimarlija. Who's calling for a hearing? There are no reports. The resolution was adopted by the House of Representatives at its 47th session, held on 02.12. In 2004. On the basis of Article 114(2), the House may decide to consider the resolution first by the committee responsible. Now we can plead to that. So, does 9 have the need for this resolution to be considered by the committee in charge. We heard the explanation that the text was simple, that it didn't seem to me. Okay. Then if we decide not to go to the committee, I call again, if no one answers the question, to plead with the resolution. I'm calling for a plea. You can vote now. Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted a resolution on the adoption of the Otva document's commitments with the programme of action of the 2002 International Conference on Population and Development, proposed by Mr Halid Genjac. We move to the next item on the 6th agenda, it reads, Ad.6. Giving consent to ratifying the Consular Convention between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Turkey, we have received a report from the Commission. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this convention. In accordance with our short-term agreement, in line with all three clubs in our Dum, we agreed that unless there were no proposings and I don't see him having one, we would take this item off the agenda. There's no proposer. So, according to our position, before I say it, Mr. Genjac wants, please. Excuse me, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4215	Mr. Chairman, while respecting the decision of distinguished colleagues, I am joining the decision of course, but I would like to remind you that the issue of proposing international agreements and conventions, in this House and on the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, is a matter of at least six last months. In that sense, so it's not completely solved. And since the very beginning of this commission, we have been having permanent problems. In that sense, the Commission addressed both the BiH Presidency and the BiH Presidency, which formally appeared as a direct and final proposal for international agreements to the Parliamentary Assembly, we addressed both the relevant ministries and the Council of Ministers themselves and finally addressed the House College. I don't think I'm wrong, that at least three or more times we spoke in writing to the College of the House asking for help, advice, a solution to this problem, etc. In fact, the question here is not as unequal as the question of the legislator when it comes from the Council of Ministers. Why? Because we have essentially someone working on international agreements, even those that are internationally prepared, done at UN, EU, etc. or when it comes to bilaterals, it directly represents Bosnia and Herzegovina. These are usually experts belonging to the Council of Ministers in various ministries, and we have a formal BiH presidency that must appear as a proposing and whose employees, whose people who can appear as proposing representatives, have almost no more knowledge of these agreements and conventions than we do in the Commission. 10 For this reason, we have a permanent problem in considering such documents because we generally need more information than we can read ourselves in this document. We need explanations, comments, interpretations of the views of our country, etc. We didn't have that. I am taking this opportunity to warn first that this very convention that we are removing from the agenda right now, the bilateral Convention on Consular Affairs between BiH and Turkey, has been unsettled for 3 years. So it's not about any specific convention but about the most elementary copy, common everywhere in the world, without even a single specific solution that would be bilateral. So we're going to postpone this now, and we're going to get into a situation, I'm afraid, again who knows what time and at the next House session we're going to have this big and tough question. I am convinced that we in the Commission cannot and cannot resolve it from the Commission. I'm convinced that just taking this point off the agenda and the next one going by the same logic, we're not going to solve this issue. That's why I think the final question is, I'm a little surprised that our principle will by no means go further than the Council of Ministers and I'd have to throw it to the BiH presidency. I think that home colleagues should have found ways and ways to discuss this issue with the BiH presidency as well. Otherwise, I am convinced because I have unfortunately already been able to object to the BiH presidency, they have very politely told us, we can come to you, we are ready to come to you but we cannot answer the questions you are asking. We just don't know those answers. So, in that sense, please, please once again and take the opportunity to on my own personal behalf, and I think that my colleagues from the Commission including you as chairman, agree to this, to really look for a way and way. On behalf of the College, to resolve this issue, to find a formula for the presence on committees of representatives who are capable, who rule information and facts, and may answer questions relevant to decisions on such agreements, conventions, resolutions and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4216	I thank Mr. Čengić. Mr Pamuk.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4217	Here, I'll get out. I accept and understand Mr. Čengić, I understand that very often it is also about the documents that need to be adopted quickly, I understand that in the Presidency I cannot explain everything, but I must say here that at the last meeting, which we had with the Presidency, discussed on the subject with the Presidency. We have received a promise from the predsjednitvo that they will try to send on behalf of competent people to Parliament to explain the situation and to explain this, act that we sign, or which we verify. But here's what's not happening. I understand that the Presidency is not always able to explain all professionally well, but the Presidency is obliged to have, for every 11 cases, either within the section of the section of the section of the section of the Council of Ministers who work in one co-production with the Presidency, to agree and that this minister, or a man expert from the Council of Ministers, can explain to Parliament, I would also tell the Commission all variations and all situations related to individual conventions. I think it is high time that Parliament indeed, or, indeed, this House takes a serious position, that it does not allow neither the Presidency nor the Council of Ministers to play with them, and that they do, and that homes adopt laws that are sometimes unclear to them. I understand that we in the commission have professional people who can master it or master it, but the designer who is dating the project, who is doing the project, who is doing the law, should explain better what the law has said. I didn't purposely want to talk about this law on this state service today, because it was adopted by this House, but from the presentation of a colleague who spoke here, I didn't see or hear any valid reason to cut deadlines. But let's be, let's be, let's take it formally, because we need to actually work on one good relationship once, work in co-production all the things we do. Thank you, so I still fully advocate the position of club president, there is no one who can refer to this law and ask that the law be removed from the agenda, that this convention be removed from the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4218	I thank Mr. Pamuk. Who else wants to talk? No more reports. So, according to our position, our three clubs, I suggest we do so, with this once again, to answer the question here. So, did the College do that commitment, get in touch with the Council of Ministers and the Presidency, who are proposing these documents. We wrote, but we didn't meet physically. I think that here, in the next maybe I don't know how much, a few weeks, it's actually going to be useful, to make live meetings and really talk and ask ourselves, what are the reasons why you keep avoiding the presence of committees and sessions at the House when these materials are being considered. So international agreements, contracts, they're not exactly identical every time and they can't change anything, often especially when it comes to bilateral contracts, then really some issues are regulated in a special way. We have, we are witnessing situations that in the last month we have requests to postpone the application of some already signed international agreements and agreements, which I am sure BiH is reducing its reputation in international relations. We can't see it, say we're in trouble, so others will understand. Others understand that, but they remember, and I'm sure they appreciate us for it. So we're one of the few countries that, from time to time, we don't respect internationally signed contracts. And I am sure it does not contribute to BiH's good image and reputation in the world and international relations. And, I think here, there's a part of our responsibility because we were the ones who finally verified those contracts. So they became valid only after they passed the procedure in the BiH Parliament. We had a chance of course, if something was really bad, to react, to shut up, to go back to work, etc. So what we're looking for, there's this thing that's convinced us these days 12, and so this situation that it is, it certainly has its place, it has its own justification, and I think we should do this. So we're taking off the agenda for six reasons. Here, no one's answering to fight back. I think that's how we handled it. We're going to the 7th item of the agenda, Ad.7. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Republic of Italy on the mutual regulation of international road transport of passengers and cargo We have received a report from the competent commission. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this convention. However, for the same reason that I don't see representatives here, I suggest we act as before at the previous point. So let's take this point off the agenda and put it on, or we'll consider it when the conditions are met. I think we agree to do this. That's what we end up with at 7. We're going to the 8th point of the agenda, and it says, "Ad." The fill of the Serbian people's seats instead of Nada Radović in the Interparliamentary Union. As you know, Mr. Nada Radović was a member of our BiH delegation in the Interparliamentary Union, but after being removed by the High Representative, then this place remains updated and we have a proposal from the Serbian People's Club to fill this place. I call on Mr. Boško Šiljegović, president of the Serbian People's Club to propose a solution. Mr. Šiljegović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4219	Thank you, Mr. President. The Serbian delegates' club proposes Mr. Vinko Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-22-0.u4220	Thank you. We heard a proposal and a brief explanation. Who wants to take your word for it? No Niko's answering. I'm making a statement on this proposal. So, instead of Nada Radović being a member of the BiH delegation in the Interparliamentary Union, Mr Vinko Radovanović is appointed. 13 You Can Vote. I thank and realize that we unanimously appointed Mr Vinko Radovanović as a member of the BiH delegation in the Interparliamentary Union. This has exhausted today's agenda. I thank all the MPs. We were expedient today, the truth of the agenda was a little shorter than usual, and we took some points off, so here we were able to finish for an incomplete two hours' work. Thank you, everyone. The sitting is over and goodbye. The session was completed at 12:45 p.m.
