ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20360	Gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 69th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I welcome all MPs present as well as presentations of funds for public invoking. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the Service report, there are 34 MPs, 22 behind the Federation and 12 from Republika Srpska, which means we have a quorum for full and full decision-making. The absence from today's session was justified by Mr Jozo Križanović, Ibrahim Đedović and Mirko Blagojević. The other MPs did not justify their absence, saying that we could expect them to join us during the session. Ladies and gentlemen, you have also received a draft agenda with a call for the session. I want to inform you that we had a session of the extended college this morning and agreed to extend today's agenda with the next agenda points. It is - The minutes of the 68th session, then - the Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the proposals for the conclusions of MP Vink Zorić and dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija submitted in the process, therefore submitted in the process of considering the Agreement on the Reform of Police Structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina, then - Ratification of the Agreement on a Grant of the Fund for the Protection and Quality of Water between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the fourth point so that - We appoint three members to the joint commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Public TV Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You have received a new agenda, therefore the consolidated text of the agenda and I ask you, we have agreed at the Porcelain College, we have asked the presidents of the clubs, given the scale of today's agenda to avoid, if today's enlargement of the agenda with some new points except for what is proposed at the Enlarged College. So that's an extended college proposal. We can't, of course, avoid it if someone thinks they need 2 today to propose a new agenda point, so I want to introduce you to a recommendation from the Expansive College. So I'm opening a debate on the agenda. You have received precisely structured days of order in the consolidated text, which will be read after adoption for stenograms and notes from this session. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Mr. Mladen Potočnik, and Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20361	Ladies and gentlemen, I would suggest the next conclusion to bring this parliament, which is that the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina is demanding a public debate on the southern point of exit to the sea of Corridor Vc. This decision is of state and state importance to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20362	Thank you. Dr. Crescent. You're a Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20363	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate all you've said that this is about an extremely large agenda and that it's about extremely important things that are on the agenda. I also express my satisfaction that the final VAT law on amendments to the VAT and amending the Law on Amendments and the Law on Amendments and Supplements on Additional Taxes which we have referred to in the parliamentary procedure which has been finally ahead of us for so long. I'm sorry that 16, 17, and who knows what point, but that's probably more reason to hurry up and get to them so we can all be there by the time it gets to that point. However, Mr. Chairman, I know that there is, that very important questions are being adopted here, but I would ask you, therefore, I am not using my right unless you suggest, I think that one item of the agenda should be found before us today because of the importance of what I will say after, but I accept the possibility that what I am about to say now is to agree and that we are asking the Council of Ministers to prepare us for the next session, that I would not be at the next session again if it hadn't been prepared. Namely, you are familiar with the real conflict between an independent institution called the Communications Regulatory Agency and the Ministry of Communications. It is that one independent agency such as the Regulatory Agency for Communications, according to what we see in the media, loses its independence in the law. And on the other hand, we see that in this media war, it is done all over the back of a public BH service that also has its own problems. So I wouldn't be opening up questions here on the agenda, but I think that because of what's been going on in the last few days on the route of the Regulatory Agency, the Public BH Service, the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, we have a very difficult situation in the Public BH Service which, because of what's going on, could lose its independence if it's going to be paid by ministers with its decisions. 3 Therefore, I would ask that it be in charge, that we agree to make a request to the Council of Ministers to prepare for the next session of Parliament, here I am running the name of the problem information, perhaps there are no plans, I hope there are also money transfers for the needs of the Regulatory Agency for Communications and Public TV Service as independent and professional institutions of this country. So that the competent minister shows up here, perhaps the chairman of the Council of Ministers and tells us how they intend to preserve the independence of the Regulatory Agency and the independence of the Public Service, not that when it comes to what we all don't need then we include ourselves. So I would ask, so I don't want to politicise this, I don't want to put this point to the vote, so that most of us refuse to, so now we're accusing the parliamentary majority that they don't care about the war of the Communications Regulatory Agency thank God and the Public Service, but I'm running to agree to prepare it for the next session. If you agree, I wouldn't insist on expanding the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20364	Thank you, Dr. President. Lagumji. Is there anyone else to report for the agenda? There's no one here. Ladies and gentlemen, I am concluding a debate on the agenda and, of course, we need to make a statement about these initiatives, Dr. Lagums and Mr. Potočnik. I think it makes sense to ask the Council of Ministers to forward information related to RAC independence and therefore to send us that information. What a response from the Council of Ministers will come, therefore, to prepare it for the next session. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now. Who's up for it? So they voted 22 against 2, abstention 2. - 16 from the Federation, 6 from Republika Srpska. We have an absolute majority and an entity majority. So I realize this conclusion will be forwarded to the Council of Ministers for the next session to prepare this information. We have a working conclusion, of course, although it isn't, I'd like to avoid it when the debate on the agenda is to adopt Mr. Potočnik's working conclusions to define this point of exit related to Corridor Vc. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now. - In 19, v. 3, abstention 4. So we don't have an entity. Sorry we don't have a member of the Croatian People's College, we can't agree now. You biti be re-informed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure regarding this. Ladies and gentlemen, we've exhausted the debate on the agenda, and I realize that we've adopted the next 4 DAYS READ 1. Minutes 66 and 67 and 68 of the House of Representatives, 2. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. Confirmation of the BiH presidency's decision to determine candidates for the general position in Republika Srpska, 4. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the proposals for the conclusions of Members Vink Zorić and Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija submitted in the process of Professor Vink Zorić and Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija submitted in the process of considering Decision on the adoption of the Agreement on the restructuring of police structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 5. MP Dušanka Majkić's request to discuss the proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's travel documents by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 6. MP Dušanka Majkić's request to discuss the draft law supplementing the BiH institutions' budget law and international obligations for 2005 by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 7. MP Nikola Špirić's request to consider the draft law amending the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the proposal for a Bosnia and Herzegovina law on emergency pardon, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 9. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons and its Exploitation by Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 10. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Directorate for indirect taxation under the emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 11. Proposal for a law on indirect taxation in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 12. Proposal for a law on forced collection of indirect taxes in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 13. Proposal for a Law on Customs Violations of Bosnia and Herzegovina (First Reading), 14. Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 12 / 15 Proposal for a law on the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 16. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the Report of the Commission on Finance and Budgets (proposed by Members of the Council of Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, Jozo Križanović and Selim Bešlagić), 17. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act, with the Report of the Commission on Finance and Budget (proposals by the Members of Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, Jozo Križanović and Selim Bešlagić), 18. Proposal for a Law on the Foundations of Geomatics of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the Constitutional and Legal Commission Report (Proposer of MP Mirsad Ćeman), 19. Proposal for a Law on the Holidays of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with Report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission (proposed by the MPs Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, Jozo Križanović and Selim Bešlagić), 20. Proposal for a Decision on the Organisation of the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 5 21. Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the establishment of a complex of buildings and land for the accommodation of BiH institutions, their status, conditions and method of use, 22. Giving consent to ratification (a) the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Spain on the reciprocal abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports, (b) the Agreement on air traffic between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Greece, (c) the Agreement on Air Transport between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina, (d) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the reading of third-country nationals and nationals of third-country nationals, (e) the Supplemental Treaty on Credit between the European Community, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina and under (f) the Agreement on the Grant of the Fund – the protection of Water Quality between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 23. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Public TV Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina and 24. Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Intelligence and Security Agency activities for the period from 1.6 to 31.12.2005, pv. material. Ladies and gentlemen, we move to the first item of the agenda, that's Ad.1. The minutes of the 66th and 67th and 68th Sessions of the House of Representatives from 66th and 67th sessions were sent to you by letter dated 12th October, and the minutes of the 68th session were sent to you by fax on 21st October. I'm opening a discussion on the records, and I suggest we conduct a single debate on all three of these records. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I am closing the debate and can we say one vote on all three minutes with 66, 67 and 68 sessions since there were no objections to them? You got it. Thank you. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that we are unanimously in favour, with 30 votes to adopt the minutes from 66, 67 and 68 of the House of Representatives, thus moving on to the second item of the agenda, which is Ad.2. MPs' questions and answers Answers to questions were received by MPs Sead Palavrić, Adem Huskić, Jozo Križanović and dr. Petar Kunić. Ladies and gentlemen, I will certainly give you a chance for those who have received the answer to comment on whether they are satisfied, but I would also like to draw your attention that, for the sake of the extensive agenda for today, we have tried in the enlarged College to get the consent that today, if 6 is possible, we avoid asking new questions and looking for answers in order to effectively complete today's session. Of course, if such a mood exists. So I ask if the MPs who received the answer are satisfied with the answer to the questions asked? No one's answering for a word. Dr. Crescent. Petar Kunić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20365	I can be glad I got the answer after 10-12 months. After a long period of time, I got the answer, and I'm very happy with it under quotes. As far as the answer is concerned, he is incomplete, in fact not giving an answer to the question I asked. So I'm absolutely not very happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20366	Thank you, Dr. President. I Kunić. If no one is answering for a word to comment on the answer to the asked question, I am giving this opportunity to ask new parliamentary questions, but I am asking you here to make sure that we do not use this watch in. So Mr Bešlagić, Mr Moranjkić, Dr. Živković and here is Mr. Vinko Zorić, professor.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20367	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues, I will be very brief. - Will Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives discuss the EU's Negotiator Strategy? Explanation. Today there is more and more talk about the negotiator, and less about the strategy and obligations that await us on this important task. I ask for an answer from the chairman of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20368	Thank you. Dr. Crescent. Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20369	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the question has been addressed to the Council of Ministers – Is the headquarters of the Post Office designated? A very short question, if you can verbally be given to me, with a warning that next time at the session we are going with the amendment on this issue of the seat, because, as you know, 5-6 months ago, we passed the Law and the conclusion that after a month, that seat will be determined. As far as I know, it wasn't done until today. Thank you. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20370	Thank you. Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20371	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I have two questions. First – the last few days, especially, although it is continuity all the time, means of information, including federal television in the central journal as breaking news, says the country is run by the mafia. And then they list all kinds of crimes that get a decent man's hair on his head. They meet me and they ask me if it's true and why doesn't someone deny it, if it isn't? I ask the Presidency of this country, the Council of Ministers and the College – will anyone be called to answer either by a denial or by a confirmation of the above? Because feeling for the citizens of this country is a recognition that it is, and if so, it is a disaster for this country and for this people. And the second question – even in May of this year, I am according to the College of the Parliamentary Assembly, under Article 130. The Rules of Procedure referred to the interpretation concerning the provision of legal and other legal regulations under which it works, or should be done by the Administrative Commission of the Parliamentary Assembly, and before informing this House, and I too, what is currently missing from the above in order to urgently initiate activities on their adoption. And that's why I'm being offered audit reports and reports on the commission's work. The College acted on the same article in 130, but under Article 2, which turned my interpretation into a parliamentary issue, which came in turn, unfortunately yesterday. So after less than six months, 24.10 and being rejected by reason that no questions can be asked to this commission, so I ask - Who interprets the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly and whose opinion in this particular case is relevant, because I normally disagree with that argument yesterday? And secondly, if the Administrative Commission is right, I ask that my interpretation be brought to life under the supposed signs and procedures. She's in the archives in the original form and I want to go back to her place where she was directed. The point of my interpretation is clear crystal, and I saw that he was misunderstood. It's not anyone's criticism, it's an attempt to help the administrative commission and transparency in its work. Unfortunately, that's how it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20372	Thank you. I would only ask parliamentary questions to be in writing and, if possible, here is to get Dr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20373	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, these days and these months, and it can be said that the issue of the privatisation course in Bosnia and Herzegovina is being raised. In fact, the latest developments warn the Council of Ministers that 8 should intervene in terms of protecting state interests in Bosnia and Herzegovina. First of all, the protection of state property. And in this context, the Council of Ministers feels the need to create a simple public, especially before the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as it means. Bosnia and Herzegovina's oil market with 1.6 billion KM traffic annually, with two companies, which is Energopetrol and the Bosnian Ship Refinery. [[announcer...incomprehensible]] It's a state interest in every country. How does the Council of Ministers hear and simply leave the flow of things in terms of recapitalisation of these two objects, I would say with small book value, with foggy promises of investment, investment investments and easy to sell, I would say in vain? So I ask the Council of Ministers to respond urgently to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in particular to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, what does the House of Representatives intend to do about privatisation in co-operation, normally with entity governments, these two facilities of state interest? and below 2. We have adopted here a report by the Human Rights Commission on the problem, or a review of de-certified police officers in Bosnia and Herzegovina that counts more than 160 people. There is a feeling that the Council of Ministers is the one, we accepted that report, we tasked the Council of Ministers, we have no response from the Council of Ministers. I would ask that we really get an answer from what the Council of Ministers has done with the Human Rights Commission's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20374	Thank you. The word was asked for by Mr. Professor. Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20375	I thank the chairman. I have three parliamentary questions. 1. These days, the Council of Ministers decided to separate 100 thousand KM from the current budget reserve to help the injured in an earthquake in Pakistan. I support that decision, but I'm through the same form. With a parliamentary question asked by the Council of Ministers how and will it help to repair the damage that occurred in the 2004 Sovici earthquake in the municipality of Gruda in Bosnia and Herzegovina, for those who do not know and to this day have not received an answer, nor has the Council of Ministers done anything about it? So I repeat the same question. 2. When will the government institutions provide citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the possibility of heating on lush oil without paying taxes? I note that other energies are exempt from the same obligations. Here I will refer to the previous question that maybe when INA and MOL come, because in Croatia it is not paid where INA and MOL work, and in Hungary. So it's good that what's done is done. Perhaps citizens will be able to buy lush oil without paying excise duties and taxes, as is not paid on coal, as is not paid on gas etc. 9 3. Will the Council of Ministers be financially congratulated and awarded the Bosniak Alliance of Bosnia and Herzegovina whose team won three medals, gold, silver and bronze at the Turin World Cup, which took place on 26 September to 1 October 2005? The same question can also be asked by the College of our Parliament, will they at least orally congratulate the team, because this year, Bosnia and Herzegovina's anthem was played twice where the bogists performed, while at the same time other disputes, where we cannot go beyond Belgrade and finance and weigh.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20376	I thank my colleague Zorić. This is if I should publicly congratulate the Bosniak team of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the extraordinary results on behalf of the House of Representatives. The word was sought by Mr Miloš Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20377	Well, here I was thinking about repeating the parliamentary question, but I gave up, because I'm just not going to let anyone underestimate and humiliate MPs like the IRS does. And I've been thinking about how I can answer them, and it seems to me that the best answer is that in the future I don't vote for the laws they're proposing, that's what I can answer to them for not answering us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20378	So there's no parliamentary question, there's no answer. Thank you. Mrs. Ruža Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20379	I thank Mr. Chairman, I ask the question, the truth is, I don't know who I'm going to ask – who was setting up a delegation in Geneva on 19.5.2005 to defend the first report by BH on the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child before the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child? Those who were, I don't know right now, I say who was defending, I know it was and I know it was defending and I don't know who was defending and who determined it?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20380	Thank you. But I would pray that the question always tries to have an address to get an answer. Otherwise, it doesn't mean anything if he doesn't have an address. Okay. I thank Mrs. Sopta. Mr. Ivo Lozančić. Here you go. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20381	I thank Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues of the oath in this house, from the entry into....debt, until one year ago we had in the parliamentary procedure a bill on the confiscation of illegally acquired property that had not received the necessary parliamentary majority a year ago. It has important impacted that it does not receive the parliamentary majority of the Constitutional and Legal Commission reports, where it has been pointed out that we have such legal solutions within the judiciary that we can effectively implement this type of illegally acquired property and that this would only further accumulate the administration and....the effectiveness of our fight and confiscation of illegally acquired assets, and it is even pointed out that we have in the procedure one, two cases that will soon be completed. And as previously mentioned in the questions, we often, or every major one in the news and broadcasts, see also the means of informing that most of those who are potentially suspected are the main ones in the case of the award of tenders, irregularities in the tender, impact on tax, customs authorities, then a major impact on the executive authorities in municipalities, counties and work in entities, and we do not see results, what has been pointed out is that we have effective and good laws that can be prevented. My question for the Ministry of Justice – How far has it been concluded against suspects for illegal acquisition of property in the last year, names and last name of the owner and value of the property? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20382	I thank my colleague Lozančić. There are no further reports to ask questions. Dr. Crescent. Lagumdžija, I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20383	I thank the chairman. Namely, we got it today in the post office, I apologize if someone got it before, because this carries the date of 11.10 this year, namely from the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was signed by the Prosecutor General, or Mr Marinko Jurčević's Prosecutor's Office, we received a reply on the conclusion of the House of Representatives No:01-51-54-64/05 of 31.8 which was adopted on the occasion of the debate on the Information of the Council of Ministers of BiH on the results of the application of the Law on Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of BiH. Namely, to remind you, Mr. Chairman, we then referred to the Prosecutor's Office, the truth, hardly most of all in this House, that because of the information which has been reported, which has been found in both the Council of Ministers' report and the report by the Commission of Mr. Kunić, who led it, that through the import of garbage into this country, which was called food, under the company protection of domestic production, that large customs evasions, abuses, and similarity have been made. So, we got a response from the D.A.'s office saying that he's doing his job, but that the information he needs to see what's going on, he doesn't, because that's what the I.D. does, and she can get that information to come up. Please. Which doesn't stand here. So it doesn't look like the management did it. It even states here that the information given to them contains data on approved meat import quotas and withdrawn meat quantities without registered any irregularities, and then it is said that irregularities in meeting the 11 conditions for duty-free imports can be determined by direct supervision of the legal persons of the importer, i.e. by reviewing the dossiers on the basis of which import quotas are granted, and by means of the consumption of the imported goods for the approved quotas, which is the relevant Directorate for indirect taxation. That's exactly what we've given the I.D.'s warrant to do this on the basis of the D.A.'s connection, and now the D.A.'s office is informing us that something needs to be done, and we don't have any feedback about it. Let me cut the story short. My question is – What has the Council of Ministers, the Directorate for indirect taxation and other state institutions done about the conclusion of the Parliamentary Assembly since 31.8.2005 and has anyone been held responsible for this and what has been done with it?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20384	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Ljilja Mlićević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20385	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I can't agree with this, we all got that conclusion in the envelope. I mean, I have to comment on this. Secondly, we cannot teach the Bosnia and Herzegovina Prosecutor's Office how to obtain data or interfere.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20386	Yes, but ljiljo, please, any MP can ask a question, we don't lead the line. Do you have a question to ask?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20387	Uh, it's my question – is this a mix-up? We delivered what was in our possession to the D.A., so I guess the prosecutor of Bosnia and Herzegovina knows in what way the data he needs will come up. We can't pressure anyone, we can't influence anyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20388	The D.A.'s gonna answer. Any address will answer the question, if the question is addressed well. That's why I don't think there's a need to lead the controversy when questions are asked. I'm asking you, Doctor. A Lagumdžija if you can. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20389	First, Mr. Chairman, my colleague Milićević knows very well that there are no comments and replicas on questions. But since she's here, she can ask a new question to the Council of Ministers why MP Lagumdžija is putting pressure on her, etc., but she can't replicate to me like this. 12 So, as it replicates in a way that does not reflect what I asked for, I repeat again for precision and a magnetogram question, Mr Špirić - What has the Council of Ministers, the Directorate for indirect taxation and other state institutions done to implement the conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly on abuses since 31.8.2005? And as an illustration, I said we got an answer here from the D.A. who says he doesn't know what he's doing on the right. Because by doing his job, the D.A. is informing us that the other institution has done nothing about what its business is, which we have concluded. And what I'm doing is helping the D.A. if he's doing his job. If he doesn't do his job, it's also an adequate reaction.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20390	Thank you. The question is clear. I ask the MPs if they have a question to ask. Momčilo Novaković. So please don't replicate. There's only one question. There's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20391	I would like to support Mr Lagumdžija in his position when he said that indeed an MP should not comment on the question of another MP and remind him, firstly four, five sessions, he commented on my question.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20392	So I didn't just say, I wasn't just talking to my colleague, Milićević, but to all of us, to lose the sense that MPs were asking each other a question. So I asked that the question be addressed, and what kind of question will be asked, I can't influence anyone, nor can I take a word for it. I'm asking you to avoid a replica on the issue. Here you go. Here's a colleague, Milićević, who has a question. So let's stick to the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20393	Accordingly, today we received this memo, found in an envelope from the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, if we extract things from the context meaning in the position of the first of those replies, the prosecution first finds that the report that we had on the commission of Professor Kunić and we in Parliament are not a report from the Council of Ministers, but from the Minister of Economic Relations. I am now asking the Council of Ministers – is he behind that quota report we received here?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20394	Thank you. So, please, just written questions in writing to deliver to me. 13 Who continues to answer the question? Nobody's answering. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm grateful that we shortened this MP's watch. We didn't use it as a whole. We're going to the third item of the agenda, that's A.3. Confirmation of the BiH Presidency Decision on the establishment of candidates for the general position in the Republika Srpska Army You have received material for this item of the agenda. I remind you, therefore, that at the 80th session held on 5 October 2005, the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina made a decision to determine candidates for the general position in the Republika Srpska Army, meaning the post of Chief of Staff and General Staff of the Republika Srpska Army, Dragan Vuković is proposed. In accordance with the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina confirms the Presidency's decision to determine candidates. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate, and Dr. Crescent's telling them to do it. Živković. Here you go. Please respond for your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20395	I have waited in line with the Decision we received here at point 3 to say – the defence minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina is also likely to have his deputy explain the proposal for a general position at a session of the Parliamentary Assembly. Please respect that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20396	Thank you. So who's calling for a hearing? He's not answering. If the MPs want an explanation, please. Here's the Secretary of Defense, Deputy Minister, I apologize. My apology, on multiple occasions, is not intentional, not malicious. Well, it's probably not the last one, it's always a warm man, I can't guarantee.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20397	I hope so. All right. I welcome Mr. Chairman, I welcome all representatives of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I would like to present several facts relating to the Presidency's proposal for a candidate for the general position in the Republika Srpska Army, in line with the request of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence ministry submitted a proposal in 27.9.2005 to the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina to place Colonel Dragan Vuković on the post of Chief of Staff of the Republika Srpska Army and produce the rank of Brigadier General. The reason for this appointment is probably familiar to you, and this is the replacement of the former Chief of Staff of General Đukić, who was moved from that post by the decision of the High Representative. 14 The basis for the above is set out the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Article 16 under g), that the minister recommends the appointment, promotion and replacement of the generals in accordance with the provisions of this law and under the second indent of the consent of EUFOR and NATO headquarters in Sarajevo since 19.9.2005. On the basis of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency Decision on the service of generals in the armed forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina No:011367-8/04 of 1.9.04, the Ministry of Defence proposed to appoint a functional act by the General Major, because it was placed in a general position for which a higher general act was envisaged than the one he possessed. At the 80th session, the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency discussed the proposal and submitted the text of a decision to the Parliamentary Assembly for confirmation before you. In addition to the attached decision, the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency also provided you with a copy of the consent of EUSFOR and NATO headquarters commanders in Sarajevo and a biography of the proposed candidate. As regards the above, I propose that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina confirm the Decision of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, which places Colonel Dragan Vuković on the post of Chief of Staff of the Republika Srpska Army and products in the rank of Brigadier General. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20398	I thank the Deputy Minister, Mr Enes Bečirbašić, and once again I apologize for the mistake I made in saying the function he performs. She wasn't going to. I hope you got the information you asked for. Is anyone answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote to confirm the Presidency's decision to appoint Mr Vuković. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So for 25, against no one, abstention 3. I agree, ladies and gentlemen, that we have therefore confirmed the Presidency's decision to appoint Mr Dragan Vuković as Chief of Staff of the Republika Srpska Army and thus conclude the debate on the third item of the agenda. I thank Deputy Minister Bečirbašić. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda, that's Add.4. Report from the Commission to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the proposals for the conclusions of the Members of the Prof. Vink Zorić and Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija submitted in the process of considering the Decision on the adoption of the Agreement on the restructuring of police structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina At the 68th session of Mr Vinko Zorić, on behalf of the HDZ-Demist Club, he proposed to the House to adopt two conclusions with the agreement on the restructuring of police structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 15 He also suggested one conclusion from Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, who also accepted Mr Zorić as the addition of his conclusion under the second point. The conclusions, as you know, were not received by the entity majority, and the Commission carried out the coordination procedure. You've received a report on the settlement of the findings. You saw that no agreement was reached on the conclusions. Is there any need to remind you of the conclusions? So it's two conclusions. The first conclusion was, here I will take the right to read it – the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives insists that the cantonal muppets, the federal MUP in the course of police reform share fate with the Republika Srpska MUP regarding status and jurisdiction. The second conclusion was – Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives obliges the Council of Ministers to inform this House about the progress of police structures reform every three months with an action plan for implementation in the next quarter. So that's the two conclusions. There's no discussion of the conclusions. I've informed you that they're not in line within the College. Prepare to vote. Only those who are against the conclusion vote. So first we declare our first conclusion. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, against 11, so against 11 from RS. I'm realizing that conclusion number one didn't get consent. We move on to the statement of conclusion number 2. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Yeah, just who's against the vote. Vote now. We repeat the vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. And we won't do it again. Please vote. So against 8, there are no abstentions. I find the number two conclusion accepted. And so we move to the fifth item of the agenda. The second conclusion was accepted, so Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives obliges the BiH Council of Ministers to inform the house about the progress of police structures reform every three months with an action plan for implementation in the next quarter. That's the conclusion. 16 We move to the fifth item of the Ad.5 agenda. MP Dušanka Majkić's request to discuss the proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's travel documents by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. On 23 September 2005, Ms Dušanka Majkić applied for an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure adopts the Law supplementing the Law on travel documents in Bosnia and Herzegovina. You've won this bill. You saw it was one member. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mrs. Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20399	Since the law is short, I will say a few words that this is a correction of injustice in this law which has mainly affected children's rights and that the procedure of applying the Law on travel documents when issuing travel documents to minors who are entrusted with the judicial decision to raise and safeguard one of the parents has seen significant difficulties because the signature for crossing the border should be provided for both parents' signatures. And in cases where parental relationships of minors were significantly disturbed, it often occurred that other parents were maliciously and without any reason refusing to give consent, mainly because of their impatience to the parent whom the child was entrusted with. I said that this has consequences for the exercise of human rights and suggested that this law be amended in Article 18 by adding a new point that says – If a juvenile is entrusted to the education and protection of one of the parents, the travel document for that minor will be issued with the consent of that parent only. I hope that Parliament will have the understanding of this amendment and adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20400	I thank my colleague, Majkić. I think it's about the correct one. Corrections. [[or, in particular, not understood]] Mr. Novaković answered the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20401	...business intervention since we are discussing procedure, not the Law, then it would be good to hear Mrs. Majkić's argument when we discuss the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20402	Okay. Thank you. I agree. So who's coming forward for the debate? Nobody's answering. I'm in the middle of a debate. 17 Ladies and gentlemen, prepare to declare who he is in order to support the procedure of Article 105. Rules of Procedure concerning Mrs Dušanka Majkić's request to discuss the draft law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's travel documents. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - for 14, versus 17, one abstention. We don't have the Federation's number. So we're going to get a match. Since we don't have a third member. He doesn't have Branko's parliamentary majority. No, there's no 14 against 17.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20403	I'm sorry, it's my fault.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20404	So this request didn't get the required majority, so it goes into the regular procedure, and that concludes the debate on the fifth item of the agenda. Moving to the sixth item of the agenda, Add.6. MP Dušanka Majkić's request to discuss the draft law supplementing the BiH institutions' budget law and international obligations for 2005 by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure, gospođa Majkić, delivered this bill in the procedure on October 10th. It was delivered to you with a letter of 12 October. It's also about shorter law. It's a member. I'm opening a discussion on the request for a procedure of Article 105. Ms. Dušanka Majkić as the applicant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20405	...I would also repeat, given that we are being followed by the adoption of the budget for next year, that we are at the end and that we are preparing different financial reports, I think we should adopt urgently that the mistakes that have been made so far would not have been made for the next time. That's the only reason why. I'm afraid if it's by any other member, it means 104, we're not going to get these important changes to apply to a new version of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20406	I thank my colleague, Majkić. Who's next to the word? Dr. Crescent. Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20407	The chairman, I will also take advantage of the opportunity to declare procedures and parliamentary issues, especially fellow Zorić, to refer this one to a real need for this parliament to be familiar with the way in which budget reserves are spent, or criteria. 18 Does the Council of Ministers have any criteria on how to spend budget reserves and if it has to inform this Parliament? We have, on several occasions, been able to either through parliamentary issues, or through information through the Official Journal, to be informed that funds from the budget reserves have been allocated. What Ms. Majkić warns about and intervenes with her proposal also concerns the way in which the existing laws apply. I'll just remind you these reserves can't be spent on solving budget surpluses unless it's about creating new institutions, or something new in the work of institutions, etc. I am not sure that, in accordance with the criteria, this Parliament was aware that it was indeed in line with some of the criteria that exist, if there are, it was indeed done. Perhaps this is also an opportunity to ask the Council of Ministers, or perhaps this for the adoption and debate of this law, and perhaps to extend it to the transparency and legality of work in terms of spending budget reserves and in general the way of the Law on the implementation of the budget so that this Parliament is not only informed by the sub-mediation of information in the official list or some other case, but rather that it is actually included in this. Otherwise, I would like to warn you that we will be an integral part against legal illegal work.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20408	Thank you. The word was asked for by Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20409	Mr. Chairman of the business intervention. We're discussing procedure, and we shouldn't be getting into it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20410	Thank you. Who else has to report for the procedure? Nobody's answering. We're closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's abstentioned? So for 8, versus 16, 2 abstentions. I find it hard for ladies and gentlemen to accept MP Dušanka Majkić's request to discuss the draft law supplementing the BiH institutions' budget law and international obligations for 2005 under an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure and thus obtained the conditions for this to go into regular procedure. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda, Add.7. MP Nikola Špirić's request to consider the draft law amending the Law on Freedom of Access to Information in Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. I just want to inform you that you have received this bill with a letter of 12 October 2005. 19 You have seen the Members of Parliament that the bill of law is a lower, low degree of complexity. Namely, it is proposed to replace the term letter with the term solution for why the reasons are specifically stated in the explanation. In addition to the draft law, you have also received provisions of the basic law proposing amendments, and here I am opening a debate on the procedure relating to Article 105. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. It's a bad situation here, too. For 12, v. 18, abstention 0. I therefore find it unacceptable to accept MP Nikola Špirić's request to consider the draft law amending the Law on Freedom of Information in Bosnia and Herzegovina on an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. So this change goes into regular procedure, too. Moving to the eighth point of the agenda, that's Ad.8. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the proposal for a Bosnia and Herzegovina law on emergency pardon, in accordance with Article 104. On 3 October, the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers submitted a draft pardon law requiring consideration under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. You've received a proposal from this law. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 13 October, which shows that there is a valid constitutional and legal basis for the adoption of this law. I am opening a debate on an emergency request under Article 104. Who answers the word. Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate and I'm inviting you to come forward. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 23, v. 4, abstention 1. I find that ladies and gentlemen have accepted the request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Bosnia and Herzegovina's draft law on pardoning the urgent procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda, that's Ad.9. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons and its Exploitation by Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Bill have been sent to you in a letter of 5 October 2005. The Council of Ministers requests that this legislative proposal also be considered under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a hearing about the procedure. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. 20 I am closing the debate and calling for you to prepare for your vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So for 29, against nobody, abstention 1. I konstatovati that we have accepted the request of the Council of Ministers of BiH to discuss the draft Implementing Law of the Convention on the prohibition of the development of production, accumulation and use of chemical weapons and its destruction by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, and we go to the 10th point of the agenda, that's Ad.10. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Directorate for indirect taxation under the emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. On 10 October 2005, the Rules of Procedure of the Proposal for this Law, the Council of Ministers, delivered it to you in a letter dated 12 October. The request is a motion for an emergency procedure, therefore it is also a request for an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, and I'm opening a hearing about the procedure. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate, and I'm inviting you ladies and gentlemen to make a statement about the procedure. Vote now. For 27, against no one, abstention 2. I therefore find that the request of the Council of Ministers of BiH for consideration of the draft law on the Directorate for indirect taxation under emergency procedure is accepted, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. We're going to the 11th point of the agenda. Ad.11. The proposal for a law on indirect taxation procedure in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) The proposal for this law to Parliament was submitted on 7 September 2005 with a request to consider it by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. At the 66th session, the applicant changed the request to Article 104. A businessman. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on the Predity of the Law on 30 September. The Commission responsible for Finance and the budget of which you received the report is therefore responsible for the Commission for Finance and the budget of which you have also received the report. You saw the Komsiija adopt 15 amendments. In the plenary phase of the amendment were filed by Tihomir Gligorić, 22 amendments which again defend in the plenary phase, Mirsad Ćeman 4 amendments that also defend in the plenary phase. We are, I draw attention in the first reading and open the debate in the first reading. Who's answering for a word? Dr. Crescent. Gligorić. Here you go. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20411	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, since it is the first reading and it is the principles, I will try to cut short in terms of changing certain principles, and they can be changed in the second reading in the amendment phase, so I suggest that when we come to the second reading, I ask the MPs to really look at the amendments that have been put into focus and try to help Bosnia and Herzegovina's economies. So we would not now talk about individual principles since the amendments want to change something to make a more liberal law, rather than a restrictive one as we have in the proposal, we could do so in a second reading when we consider and vote on amendments to improve this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20412	Thank you, Dr. President. Gligor. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby conclude the debate in the first reading and call for you to make known, therefore, the proposal for a law on indirect caution in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - So it's 27, v. 1, abstention 2. I therefore find that the draft law on the indirect taxation procedure in the first reading has been adopted. Now I'm asking you to make it clear if you think the conditions have been met that we have another reading today. I see he's got a grudge.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20413	You don't understand...
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20414	I agree with you all, but if there's no Parliament's mood. There's also an amendment phase. So, please, I beg you, so please let's do the next one. Please club presidents, those who have submitted the amendments, it is an important law, it is about the tight timing of time that in the coming days the club presidents are working to agree on the amendments and to see where they can reach consensus so that we can adopt this important law in the second reading as soon as possible, not to break deadlines. Do you agree? We agree. Thank you very much for your support. Moving to the 12th point of the agenda 22 Ad.12. Proposal for a law on forced collection of indirect taxes in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) And this proposal changed the request from Article 105's procedure to Article 104 at the 66th session. Rules of Procedure. At the 66th session, the home adopted the procedure under Article 104. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission as well as the report of the Commission responsible for finance and budget. The Commission has adopted seven amendments to the draft law. In the plenary phase, therefore, in the plenary session, the amendments were tabled by Mr Mirsad Ćeman, two amendments that he again defends at the plenary session and Mr Tihomir Gligorić also two amendments that he defends in the plenary phase. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I call upon you to plead. - So it's 23, against 1, 1 abstention. I agree that the proposal for a law on the enforcement of indirect taxes in Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in the first reading. I thank you. I suggest we share the fate of the previous agenda. They have four amendments, so that the amendment promoters can sit down and see if they can bring their views closer to the political consensus, of course, and adopt this law in a second reading. We're moving ladies and gentlemen to the 13th item of the agenda, that's Ad.13. The proposal for a law on customs violations of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) was submitted by the Council of Ministers to Parliament on 28 July 2005 with a request for consideration under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. At the 64th session of the House, the motion for an emergency procedure was not adopted, so the draft law is being considered in the ordinary procedure. You have received an opinion from the Constitutional and Legal Commission, as well as a report from the competent Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs. The committee in charge supported the draft law. You saw that even at the commission stage there was no amendment. I'm opening a crack in the bill in the first reading. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate and prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that with 27 votes in favour of, 1 versus, 2 abstentions, we accepted the proposal for a law on customs violations of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. 23 Ladies and gentlemen, since there have been no amendments to the commission phase, no amendments have been submitted for the plenary phase, I ask you, I urge you to state who it is for us to go to another reading about this law. Prepare to vote. Vote now. We're so well trained, this is great. I find that with 24 votes in favour of, 2 against, 3 abstentions, we have accepted the proposal to go to another reading, related to the proposal for a law on customs violations of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a second reading debate? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate and I'm inviting you to come forward. Vote now. Ladies and gentlemen with 24 votes in favour of, 2 against and 1 abstention, abstention, we have adopted the draft law on customs violations of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the second reading and have obtained the conditions to move to the 14th item of the agenda. I just want to say that this is the way that the commissions work well and when it's a plea in the tide, when the good preparation of legal proposals is just a formality, and in that sense here are the commissions that have been committed and I congratulate you MEPs on what we can do effectively. Thank you, with your full contribution. We're going to the 14th item of the agenda, Ad.14. The draft law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's (first reading) election law was submitted to the parliamentary procedure on 22 August 2005. The proposal is by the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the 65th session, a proposal for a procedure under Article 104 was adopted. Rules of Procedure. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission as well as the report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission which is responsible for considering this law. You saw that the Constitutional and Legal Commission unanimously supported the principles as well as the text of the bill. There were no amendments at the commission stage either. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate and I'm calling for you to plead. Vote now. So I find that with 30 votes in favour and no one against and no one abstentions, so we unanimously adopted the draft law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law in the first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, since there has been no amendment in the commission phase, so no one has filed a request to defend the amendment in the plenary phase, I urge you to plead that we are going to another reading. 24 Prepare to vote. Vote now. Who's in? I agree that we have unanimously, so from 29 votes to declare that the draft law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's electoral law is being discussed today and in a second reading. And in that sense, I'm opening a debate in a second reading. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I hereby conclude the debate and invite you to come forward on the draft law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law in a second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that with 29 votes for and one abstention, we have adopted the draft law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law in the second reading, and thus have obtained the conditions to move to the 15th item of the agenda, that is, Ad.15. The proposal for a law on the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) We are also considering this law by a shortened procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. The parliamentary procedure was delivered on 23 August 2005. The request for a procedure under Article 104 was adopted at the 65th session. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission as well as the report of the Commission responsible for finance and budget. The financial and budgetary committee responsible adopted four amendments. Dušanka Majkić has tabled eight amendments that she wants to defend again in the plenary phase. So we're in the first reading and I'm opening a debate about the Law in the first reading. Mrs Dušanka Majkić answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20415	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the aim of the adoption of this bill is to harmonise the conditions of the revision, the Law on Audit in the Republic of Serbia and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and at the state level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. to coordinate the operation of these significant institutions under the same conditions. What relationship between entity and state authorities towards these three important institutions is visible from constant attempts to discipline and put these institutions under control of the political options that are in power. In addition to this, we have witnessed all the troubles that the chief auditor of Republika Srpska went through for his principled position and highly professional work received a criminal example because he dared to talk about those who treated the state property in such a way, while on the other hand this poor people barely survived. After a significant dispute with the law, the text of the law was adopted only after the international community's intervention and thus the main audit service of Republika Srpska was saved. In the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the head of the Office for Auditing the mandate pointed out on 7 this month, which unnecessarily complicated the situation. The Federation's 25-BiH Finance Minister himself keeps a new Law on Audit locked in the table, which is in line with the same state-level laws and in Republika Srpska, so the Federation law, as far as I know, is not referred to the parliamentary procedure. We know that the new bill that we have today in front of us, so the Law on the Audit of BiH Institutions has long been a matter of length, and that Mrs Marić, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury, publicly presented it in March 2005, that he had been served by an advisory group for two years with significant assistance from the international community, especially the Swedish State Audit Office. The basic principles on which this significant institution would have to rest are expertise, depolitisation and objectivity. It should be noted that the positive trends related to better work of state institutions in BiH are directly related to the work of the BiH institutions' audit office. The draft law on the revision of BiH institutions has fulfilled the main principle. It has been done mostly in accordance with international standards, especially to include audit standards. However, foreign consultants have left the final decision on certain important issues related to this law to the domestic relevant institutions. This is what I want to say a few words about the second principle – the principle of independence that I think is quite controversial. The key position of this law which contests that principle is set out in Article 24, which refers to the appointment of the Auditor-General and the Vice-General of the Auditor-General. The fact is that this represents progress in relation to the existing version of the law, as an institution of competition is being introduced, but it cannot be taken away from the impression that the proposaler has re-debated from the final inclusion of parliament and the power to vote has shifted to the BiH presidency. So the Parliament's task, his election commission, is to do all the work on the election, is to form a ranking list that then presents to the BiH presidency, which should point to who was elected. Is this a fair way of choosing, a fairer way of choosing than to have this job done by a parliamentary commission? I believe that this directly violates the principle of independence through the attempt to involve the authorities in this choice. The second issue which also violates the principle of independence is the relationship between the main auditor and the deputy chief auditor. The law says they are representatives of three constituent nations, which ultimately speaks of the institution's ethical balance, but that is not the only reason why the institution's management is being conducted by both the main auditor and the deputy chief auditor. We agreed that all three had to meet the same conditions. In addition, the proposal to amend Article 23 is in line. Both the Chief Auditors and the Vice-Presidents shall be subject to the Law on conflict of interest and shall, on the one hand, invest in the composition of the Co-ordination Committee of the Supreme Audit Institution and the Chief Auditor and Deputys, sign,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20416	May I have your attention, Commissioners for Attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20417	sign the Reviszione report. However, the provisions contained in the proposal for this law in Articles 12, 21, 22, 26 and 34 do not reflect in the best way the model of choice and the replacement of those three executives of the audit institutions, hence equal procedures for all three positions, nor the principle of primus interpare among the same for the position of the auditor-general compared to the deputy general auditor. Given that all three executives are elected in the same way, that they need the same qualifications in order to run, that they have the same obligations set out by this bill, I believe it is necessary to avoid the formulations of individual provisions 26 which are more relevant to the conclusion that the general auditor himself appointed deputies which are not true. Given that it is a highly sensitive public business, the balance on decision-making and the obligation to make agreed decisions and views between the three of these frameworks can contribute to the successful development of the Revised Institution. By unifying and harmonising the powers, as well as the rights and responsibilities between the three heads of the Office of Audit, the risk of possible political manipulation is reduced in order to gain advantage for those policy options which are being overcome in the process of appointing the auditor-general when he retains the proposed, i.e. very broad powers. I therefore propose that the powers of rights and obligations be equally deployed between these three executives, which will reduce the potential political attractiveness of the lead position in favour of the principle of independence of the audit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20418	I thank my colleague, Majkić. Who's reporting for further discussion? Mrs. Ruža Sopta, then Hazim Felić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20419	I thank Mr. Chairman, my colleagues and colleagues, to point out once again that we are passing the Revision Act today in the institutions of the Bosnia and Herzegovina authorities. I'd like to put this emphasis on this revision because what I'm about to say right now I think it refers to the expertise that needs to be audited. Namely, this law provides and defines the auditor-general and vice-general. It is very much, I would support a good part of Mrs. Majkić's discussion, but it is very unacceptable and I have made one failure, I have not immediately renewed the amendments, since last week I was on vacation and I did not renew my amendments that did not pass on the commission, namely, I had an objection to, when it comes to professional preparation and whether the general auditor and vice-generals must have an audit exam. My point was to do so, and I asked that the general auditor and the auditor must have that audit exam. But the law said that they didn't have to have an audit exam, which tells me my suggestion was that then we were changing the name to say that the Director General and two Deputys-General, and that we couldn't possibly give someone a title he doesn't have. That way we have a case, it would be very debatable if we said the President of the Court didn't have to have a judicial exam. Or that the director of the home health can be a lawyer, which he can be, but let's just say he's the head doctor, which is not right for me at all. I think that part should be corrected and that is why I am addressing Parliament with one suggestion, if it is possible to extend the amendment phase here to make things right. Here, so thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20420	Thank you. Mr. Felić asked for a word. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20421	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I will brief on the Audit Act. In principle, all the important things we have solved and agreed on the Commission, and as you can see in the report we have included a few amendments that have improved the text with a different view for Article 23, here it is and Mrs Ruža herself has expressed her position. He passed most of the votes of the members of the Commission. But I wanted to say one thing about principles. Mrs. Majkić has been going with the amendments, renewing the amendments that the Office of Audit and the Auditor General has been working on us and the Commission and this Parliament quite correctly and well, wants to make three auditors and at some point that the institution that works very well is blocked whenever it pleases and wishes. Let's not really build an audit office so that we can block it and that it can be done in a way that shouldn't be done. I really think that this is how the Audit Office has worked so far, and I think that this principle should be left behind and that we know who the manager is and who he is responsible for, and that the deputies have their place and role in the structure of the Audit Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20422	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Dr. Crescent. Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20423	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, in our commission's report states that the Constitutional and Legal Commission has considered this law and that it has established the existence of a valid constitutional legal basis and compliance with the BiH Constitution. Probably the largest part is, however, I list only one member, which is Article 24 concerning the appointment of the Chief Auditor and Deputy Chief Auditor, where it is said to be done by the Bureau. The BiH Constitution does not state anywhere that it is the BiH presidency's jurisdiction. I don't think that this law is in line with the BiH Constitution. Let someone from the Constitutional and Legal Commission tell me where it was decided in the BiH presidency's responsibilities that this duty is also theirs. If that's okay, then I don't mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20424	Thank you, Dr. President. Zivkovic. Dr. Crescent. Kunić, so Dr. Gligorić, Miloš Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20425	To give my opinion on this proposal to Mr. Živković. In fact, I'm also against it being the Presidency to appoint auditors at the end of the line. But it's not true what Mr. Živković says. The Bureau shall also carry out other tasks taxingly stated, performing other tasks. Therefore, if this assembly decides to do so, it shall have the authority to do so. Therefore, it is not anti-constitutional to say so quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20426	Thank you. Dr. Crescent. Gligorić. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20427	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20428	Replica, can Dr. Gligorić finish up and then Dr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20429	Okay, if it's okay, I can stop. Since we have asked for some things to be arranged by this law to amend and supplement the law, we have basically got it, but now in the first reading we actually need to say something about these principles. I'm in favour of what Dr. Poirot said. Živković, which refers to Article 24 because I think we should in the second reading, I think the amendment has been submitted to that direction that Parliament should actually be the place that will finally decide on the auditor. Given that we have received in the proposal that this is done by the Presidency, that it actually proposes a appointment, and in that case we should confirm, I don't think we should use the experience as it does in the UK, where the King determines it, but it's symbolic in another way. We should do this this way, to give meaning to the revision, because if it will be independent, then it can only be in Parliament and that Parliament should respect this amendment, i.e. This principle to end in Parliament. Because we have a commission that will determine the Parliament that will conduct the competition and then we give someone else order etc. So he's coming back to us. I believe that this principle is not good, but we should return to the principle as it is in other countries, which is that Parliament is conducting a complete procedure concerning, among other things, Article 24, which means the appointment and confirmation of auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20430	Thank you. Here's dr. Živković then, and the replica is his first and then yours, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20431	I leave the possibility of this interpretation of the Constitution, and as Professor Kunić said, it means that Parliament can transfer its powers to the Presidency by its decision, but I just don't see the purpose and reason for it and my proposal, perhaps it would be best if this report were returned to the Commission to review the principles of this law again, because the principle of this law by which the Presidency should operate is unacceptable and I think it is a better principle that this is done by the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20432	Momo Novaković, replica, pa Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20433	I will replicate to colleagues who speak of the selection of auditors and general auditors as a choice by the Presidency. In fact, Article 24 has been defined to appoint the Auditor-General and Deputy Parliament. I really don't understand, I can't understand the problem. 29 I probably don't have as much width as my colleagues so I can understand what the problem is. It proposes the Presidency, so the Presidency only proposes to Parliament and we make the final decision. We nominate, not confirm, but appoint. I understand there's a difference between terms we confirm and appoint. So we're the ones finishing the job here. And there's an exact ranking list that's being delivered to us, so that we can and don't have to respect and that's why we're fully taking control of this whole process. I mean, it's really inappropriate to talk about this in this way, given that I don't know, and I don't know, especially right now, I hope that today we won't, but at the next session, we'll discuss the amendments, but Amendment VII of Mrs. Majkić, who talks about it all the other principles, puts other principles out of force and introduces only one principle for the selection of the general auditor. So there's only one principle, and that's the principle that he has the most points. So the subjective decision of the Commission who will have the most points will still have the same or from the same people etc. That's very problematic now. So, I don't see, I don't see that there is any principle at stake here, especially the principle of democratic decision-making, that Parliament determines who will be the auditor and the auditor-general, the deputy and the general auditor.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20434	We now have more requests for a replica. Dušanka Majkić, Dr. Gligorić, Ljilja Milićević. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20435	As interesting as this is, and as much as everyone cares about her being solved one way or another, she will very much show attitudes and positions and opposition. But trying to protect this service from any influence is primarily the main principle. In line with this, I repeat that in Article 24, it states that – as well as the deputy auditor, Parliament is appointed on a proposal from the Bureau, and is based on a ranking list of candidates prepared by the Commission for election under Article 3 of this Article. What does that mean? That the Commission will complete the whole procedure and put the candidates on the list and send it to the Bureau to point out who the first one is, who the second one is, who the third one is. No, so Parliament will decide on that. Based on what? So it is absolutely unnecessary that Parliament, which completes the whole procedure, cannot complete the part relating to the selection of the main auditor and deputy. Will you tell me that the Presidency will do this more objectively than 42 MPs would do in the Parliamentary Assembly, or Parliament of the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20436	Thank you. Mrs. Ljilja Milićević please. I'm sorry, Mrs. Milićević, Mr. Živković has been called, and then you'll be after him. Excuse me. Mr. Milorad Živković. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20437	I want to make an incorrect assumption, yes, to Mr. Novaković, simply what you don't understand is clear here. You put in here an unnecessary presidency between Parliament and the Presidency because several times the ad hoc commission here was working, doing the job the way she worked, so there were discussions several hours of debates and people came and complained, and since the Presidency doesn't trust you in the ad hoc commission, you know, then they insisted on putting the presidency between, and then they propose to this parliament the candidates they're coming up with. So it's clear to everyone here, you know, just us Parliament doesn't need to put the interspecies of the Presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20438	Thank you. Mrs. Milićević. Let Mr. Novaković prepare, I apologize Gligorić and Novaković. Excuse me, please. These are the replicas of Seada, then you'll get a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20439	See, I don't see any misunderstanding in Article 24. Why can't I see her? For the reason it means the initiative itself. Six members of the Commission, two must be obliged from the order of opposition parties to form a ranking list. He goes to the presidency, the ranked candidates who competed, returns to the House. Does anyone here claim that we do not have the right in the House or do not have the strength, if the will of our commission is not respected, is the law cast on us, forbids us to appoint the proposed candidate, to look for the next one. That's the first question. I'm sorry there's no lawmaker here. Second question. Take article 25, which is clear and decadent, and it is called – replacing the general auditor and deputy, where it is said to be done by the House of Representatives. I really don't see the slow, or the other, I think it's good and there's something in between. Look. I see nothing controversial here that the Presidency formally proposes so we do not have to formally appoint him, but say it is not that meaning, the law has said it, and Parliament can replace the general auditor and there is no proposal from the Presidency and the deputy. This parliament that appointed him, I don't see any slowness here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20440	Glogorić, Novaković, Palavrić. These are replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20441	Yeah, yeah. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. I appreciate what Mr. Novaković was saying in terms of the comment he made, but I think if we speak in principle that the power that Parliament has has has nothing, no need to pass on to the Presidency. I have no proof that the presidency wants to play that role at all. Perhaps we are as parliamentarians, or we have actually come up with the draft law, thinking that we should introduce the Presidency, and 31 I think that the Presidency is completely unnecessary because we are leading the whole process through the commission phase and we should finally confirm it. If we remember almost I won't say scandals, but when the Presidency has determined on time how it should determine that it proposes auditors and in what way and when Parliament had the strength to reject it, then we have come to a public situation that we really don't need. The presidency is an important institution. Why should Parliament slap public slap members of the presidency that they didn't do something right in the meantime? And that's why I don't think there's any need to introduce you into this process at all, but simply leave it to Parliament to bear that responsibility, and independence is being looked at here because you know you'll always be courted by the Presidency because it proposes it. You know what kind of people we are in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Everything is independent, and everything is dependent. And that's why it would be good if, just when we're at this point in the agenda, at first reading when we're talking about principles, we should actually consider accepting in the second reading the amendment of Mrs. Mother who simply returns to normal procedure. And that's why I think that's why I have the understanding and that the Presidency is involved, but it's completely unnecessary, and the experience we had was bad on this one last time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20442	Thank you. Mr. Novaković, is there any need for a replica again?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20443	Well, of course he does. Yeah, right. I have to say that I understand this problem very well, because it has little to do with my profession in some way, in every way. You see, gentlemen, our negative experiences have just been respected in this law. So the Presidency can no longer do as it has worked in the audit so far not to respect the views but even we can respect the views of the Presidency by voting on those auditors that we evaluate to be, to respond regardless of the rank of the list provided to us by the Presidency, whether commissions. After all, we have this experience when we did not respect the ad hoc commission's proposal to elect an election board member. We remember then that we chose the second, not the first. Therefore, the role of Parliament cannot be seen as formal. What I am in particular, which is unclear to me, is the position of Mrs. Majkić here to put the Presidency above Parliament. And it is not possible for the Presidency to put itself above Parliament in any position. Come on, I understand that the Council of Ministers can't, but the Presidency, people who are directly elected as we are, I think they can, and that's something that I don't understand so come out with that attitude. Still, I want to tell Mr. Živković that it's clear to everyone, and to me, it means clearly what he knows. Amendment VIII Mrs. Plavšić, pardon Majkić, we have problems with women, we in the SDS, Mrs. Majkić, are in the most direct way tearing down the key principle of this law. In the most direct way, it destroys the key principle of this law, but we will discuss it when we discuss amendments. 32 And, as I have already taken the floor, I would ask that we do not debate today in the second reading, so I ask the chairman that we do not propose a debate in the second reading in view of these remarks about the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20444	Thank you, Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20445	Today's story accurately shows the attitude of the forces in Parliament and the attitude to the audit, i.e. trying to keep this service under control. It wasn't hard to see at... The RS Assembly, when we were barely able to finish our work on the Law on Audition in the Republic of Slovenia and Mr. Čeka(?(?) Personally, so the SDS' position is not unknown to this occasion, so he can spot it. It's clear why you're fighting all these attitudes.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20446	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Špirić has a replica. Have Mrs. Palavrić prepare, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20447	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think we discuss all the legal solutions when we discuss, we discuss in accordance with the weaknesses that the system is showing burdened by the current situation. So relations will change in BiH, political relations, whether in this term, in the next, something the government will be opposition and vice versa. I'd like to avoid that story. This is about the independence of the audit office. So we now have members of the Presidency who are also the product of congregation decisions and not of direct elections. It can be said in the next election that someone who does not belong to the congregation majority is either a member of the Bureau or, therefore, different combinations are possible. But here's the key question. What's best to provide the principle of independence? It's similar to the story of the governor's election. Is he more independent if he directly corresponds to the Minister of Finance or to Parliament? It's more independent if it's Parliament. Even his term of office is tied to 5 years so that the parliamentary majority does not push, in order to ensure political independence and influence, political influence. So, if we're going to, I really think there's an extra presidency move. I think we're burdening the election procedure. For these reasons alone, I think it is more full of independence if Parliament decides, and here are the reasons why. Parliament's competition committee is composed of authorities and opposition. Discussions about candidates are being held and the best quality is being gained. The presidency can, since we now have a case that the Presidency is therefore, even leading parties from the parliamentary majority, and logically that the parliamentary majority will confirm it, and I do not find it controversial, but let us go into the corner here to see what will provide the full political independence of the Office for Audit. So, let's have a fundamental discussion. Is it good to have a presidency or not, no matter who the members of the Bureau are? I think, and I won't vote for the law if it is in principle that we are running a contest that the presidency of several candidates stabs whoever tells him, I am sending Parliament to confirm, so to decide two or three. That's where you lose that political independence thread. The second thing is that BiH is a country of mature democracy, so it can apply British or I don't know which other model. But let's secure independence just for the future. So the names are irrelevant, it doesn't matter who performs the function. And I think Parliament 33 should retain that role, run a competition on the Competition Commission, if it does not know where the government and the opposition will be and will reach the best candidate, and would even propose in law that the auditor's mandate is longer than the parliamentary assembly's mandate. He's doing political independence right now. Now, that would be a good solution for me to our country. Not to bind the mandate to, the term of office of even the parliamentary majority in the Assembly. This is the case with the governor, in all democratic countries, his mandate lasts longer than the representatives of parliament, and it is true that there are two models. It's possible both. We now need to decide what is best for our country, not slave who are members of the Presidency, from which the parties are, etc. Here, I mean, I will not support a law in which, therefore, I am not angry with other proposals in which the principle is this, mixing the relations between the Presidency and Parliament, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20448	Thank you. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, again respond to
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20449	I thank my colleagues for their thanks. I will never replicate again. First of all, I have to say that the mandate of the auditor is not about this election, but it's 7 years, which means that there is a transition, we don't know who the opposition is and who the position is in those 7 years. So it's legally defined. Well, I believe this, Mr. Lagumdžija, is what he says he knows. And so far it's known, of course. What I answered, so I didn't replicate this to Mr. Špirić, and I think his explanation was something that this one could have been in the context of the amendment. But the arguments I've read and about which we've been replicating all along are incoherent arguments. But I agree, it's two concepts, and I'm in favour of that concept that will provide greater independence for the auditor to be key in this law. So that's what I'm up for. Of course, Mrs. Majkić, probably some meetings are followed by the National Assembly, some not, so she does not know that he supported Mr. Čeku at the last session of the SDS, etc. Probably this one, 'cause he did a lot of good for the SDS.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20450	Thank you. So I'm asking you to avoid, so let's all talk about, so don't worry about specific names and solutions, we're working, so the story is about the law. Dr. Živković, replica Ljilja Milićević, and Dr. Živković, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20451	Mr. Chairman, so Mr. Novaković has corrected you, seven years doesn't match any mandates. Secondly, when this argument that is now being, uh, your explanation for the presidency, by the way, I took the Audit Act, meaning the financial operations of the BiH institution, passed in '99. the year of October. This law, which we now have, with the three amendments adopted by the Commission, is fully in line with the practice not only of the UK, but of the EU countries. We had the opinion of the World Bank, the IMF, 34 OSC, the Swedish Audit Office, which was attended by people when we implemented the law. How good is it that only the parliamentary majority appoints an auditor? Is it good to have a view of the side? That's the first question. Secondly, which is progress in this way of moving things back to Parliament, I have to read the general auditor of the apropo that is the same as the deputy. It says, according to this law, the general auditor, the general auditor, is appointed the BiH presidency exclusively, with the prior consent of both homes. That's what we had before. The auditor-general shall be appointed for a specified period of 5 years, without the possibility of renaming. So now this is one situation that's reversed. The presidency has a lead, formally, and things have been happening here compared to the previous law that hasn't changed since '99. In six years, no one has found it appropriate to change a single point in this law. So, no one has minded for six years that the Presidency has been appointed by Parliament's consent, and now we have a problem with having a variant that Parliament will do anything, the formal Presidency can propose, may be and may not be, that means it bothers. And, again, about the impact, you see, the Presidency got a negative report and the auditors survived, got this, for their work and this year we see that they've been fixed. So I think this is the best way not to even be a parallel 100% right and the presidency is up to 5%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20452	Mr. Špirić, chairman, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20453	I'm sorry, then, that I have to go back to the negative experience of things. How did this law change, Mrs. Milićević? So there was a whole crowd inside BiH until OHR knew how to help people solve conflicts rather than propose a new law. And the first product is the mind from the outside. But here we are now analyzing what is best suited. It is true that according to European standards is both. But what's best for BiH? That's all I'm talking about. So why would someone formally be here if they didn't essentially participate. So we have to assume different possible political combinations, but so we get the independence of the Audit Office, so we don't have it, that I'm part of the current majority and relations of this structure, so in a political sense, the party I'd be pushing for, perhaps, what representatives of the parliamentary majority stand for. But I'd like to consider another model, because maybe this model will fit some in October next year, maybe someone, it's completely irrelevant to me, but so the goal is to get as far as possible there is no absolute independence anywhere. But why should we, therefore, have given Parliament the opportunity to conduct a complete procedure so competitive, to say send 8 candidates to the presidency. And now we have, so we may happen to have or election results are such or the relation of the Assembly of Election Results, that members of the Bureau are representatives of the parliamentary majority, does not have the election result to be next. So I don't even doubt the objectivity or those in the presidency right now. But come on, I think it's objectively higher independence if Parliament keeps it under control... I think it can even delay the procedure. And that's not good at times. But these changes have arrived, too, because it is said, there is nothing you can do about selecting deputies now, etc. Because you're in no condition to do this, and here we have offered you a new law. 35 So I know what kind of schedule, and I ask you, therefore, that we should not be burdened with relations in the RS, the auditor Čeko, who helped whom, etc. I don't want to deal with the team. So we want simply, the aim of the law is to provide as much independence as possible for the Office of Audit and therefore, two models are and of course, one of the models will pass and it will not slow down. But let's defend the principles, don't let who once planted who from which party, so that's a condition for us to get back what we have. And I know that when the law is passed, it's seven years and it's impossible to change anything. And this would have been impossible if it hadn't been cooked up at the Bureau and the Audit Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20454	Thank you. Mr. Živković, for a while.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20455	I give up.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20456	Thank you, no more replicas. Mrs. Seada's palaur, discussion, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20457	I thank you and hope I don't cause any new replicas. First of all, I fully support Mrs Ljilja Milićević's discussion and I add, I really cannot be surprised at the individual discussions that are now suddenly having confidence in our ad hoc commission, and we forget two sessions ago what we did to our ad hoc commission, which was tasked with proposing people for members of the BiH Election Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20458	It wasn't in the opposition to Sead. And that's a mistake.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20459	If you allow the Chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20460	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20461	So we've been so inhumane about these people that there's no measure, really. On the other hand, the Presidency towards Ustqvo has those powers conferred on it by the Parliamentary Assembly. We made sure that six to seven years ago more was transferred than we're leaving in the presidency's jurisdiction today, and I think this is a perfectly good and correct solution. In addition, the amendments adopted by the Commission have indeed shown that we are finally getting a law in which there will be no discrimination, in which everyone will have equal opportunities, so if we assume that the main auditor or deputy may also be a lawyer, then we allow him to become one, we do not bring an auditor to the main auditor and his deputy to the auditor on the ground who must have a certificate. So I believe that the Commission's financial and budget report is quite correct. I think on behalf of the SDA Club, I'm saying that we don't need any new amendment phases. We need to pass quality review laws as soon as possible, and I think that's the one with the amendments adopted, that's it. And indeed, 36 I appeal to all of us not to politicize every law, to finally approach the plea.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20462	Thank you. Who's still reporting for discussion? The replica was answered by Mr. Professor Zorić, and for the debate, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20463	Here's a little bit of this, and you can joke on me, I'll allow it, but don't make a professor's profession exactly like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20464	No, no, you asked for it, I'll always do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20465	No, I was just looking into the context of the doctor.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20466	It's incomparable in that context.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20467	Okay. Uh, I answered the line because the chairman said I don't know if he has it, it seems to me that there's always a microphone involved, so it goes in the stenogram, that in the Ad hoc commission to elect members of the Electoral Commission, there's no one from the opposition. I say that's not true, that there are seven members, only three from the ruling here, most of them, although I think you're in the ruling majority, because you're a member of the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20468	And I'm not a member of that committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20469	I've had an application before, and I'll say in one sentence if you let me, I suggest on behalf of the club that a new report be made because there are some things here in this law, and from all these discussions, let's cut the deadline maximum, let's say for 10 days, and then in this conclusion that I'm proposing, we commit the House to both readings. So, to extend the deadline by ten days and at the first next session we have both a first and a second reading and to finish this review law because there are some things here, I'm not going to be here, and if there's an amendment period maybe I'll act amendmentally but this one, I'd like all the other colleagues to support me in that. I didn't take my word for it, but I listened to everyone else. I think it's mature for one such conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20470	I thank my colleague Zorić. Mrs. Sopta asked for a replica or a debate? 37
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20471	I thank Mr. Chairman, I replicate my colleague Palavrić. Because if colleague Palavrić says that this is equalising the right, that only lawyers and economists can be the head of the auditory one, the Audit Office, I really had no intention of contesting anyone to be head of the Audit Office, I don't see why there would be other professions, but I hold that he can't bear the name of a general auditor, someone who isn't an auditor. And I suggest we also change this, too, the title here, to say that it is the director and two deputy directors of the Audit Office, but as you call it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20472	Thank you. And I absolutely agree with yours, so I must say, personally, I agree with your remarks. Šefik Džaferović asked for a hearing. Mr. Jovanović, is it a debate?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20473	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would first say that this law needs to be passed as soon as possible by the BiH Parliament, in order to end
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20474	Let's just hear it for a second, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20475	We have completed the processes that have already been initiated under this earlier law and which are in stalemate. So the laws need to be passed as soon as possible. That's the only reason I'm not opening a new amendment phase. It's possible that some things that seem logical to me, which I've heard here today, can be fixed through a debate in another House and through a reconciliation. So I don't think we should go with the new phase. Let's say one of the things that I find perfectly normal and completely logical, and which I support, is what Mrs. Sopta was talking about. Look, the D.A. can't be someone in the D.A. who doesn't have a criminal trial. Neither can the auditor-general be someone who has no audit exam and has prosecutors, or auditors, but people who have judicial exams and audits. It doesn't make sense. That man has no authority among the people he's in charge of, and there doesn't need any other philosophy or logic, I think. There should also be an auditor-general and a vice-general auditor, they must have passed the audit exams, because auditors and junior auditors, people who carry out controls must have these exams for his authority. After all, we want to separate the policy from the profession in this case, and that's what we need to do. And that's exactly what we're going to do by making it possible for the deputy institution's second-in-command to come to the position of his second-in-command people who have expert exams. And it's perfectly logical for me, too, but I'm not in favour of reopening the amendment phase, and we're looking for a new Commission report, but for it to be tried in some way through the clubs of this one, because here political parties have clubs and the House of Peoples, so that this thing can be fixed, that we go as soon as possible with the adoption of this law. That's it, thank you. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20476	I thank my colleague Džaferović. Mr. Jovanović, then Milićević. The replica of Mrs. Milićević or is it a discussion? Replica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20477	Thank you. I apologize to Mr. Džaferović, all the dilemmas he made, we had on the Commission. So, we've had measurement people and we've asked questions that you've just delegated. Number one, state-of-the-art exam, okay. The audit exam we now have is not an audit exam for state institutions of budget users. It's commercial areas. So, these exams that take place in the Federation, this second one, for the profile prescribed, we don't have a lawyer with a revision exam. We have an interpretation of the World Bank where it says, it is not a practice in Sweden that this auditor is called a state auditor and does not have to have that exam and is so in most European countries. The honorable exception is Croatia but they have an audit level special for this. So this isn't the auditor's certificate that exists. Look, we have a situation. Your lawyer can't be an auditor. We've got an interpretation of the meaning, and we've read it, where it's said, that it's here about three managers. The chief auditor is the first among equal, people work together. They're not going to audit, let's get things straight. The ones from the office who are teams, who work teamwork. That's what the explanation means, and that's what's presented. I just wanted to say, that's why I called to tell Dom, I don't think there's any discussion. I supported Mrs. Majkić's amendment that didn't pass on the Commission. I mean, we on the Commission realized one of our conclusions that went to the Council of Ministers, we have assurances from Mrs. Marić that they are already working on it. One of the obligations of Parliament and the Commission for Finance and the budget is to oversee the work of the Audit Office. So, we've asked to allocate funds from the budget, to call out means an international tender and get the best one to do and every year to work, means an analysis of actually the revision of the Audit Office. And I think it is necessary for Parliament to know that we also have this aspect, that it is in our hands, that we will choose the best who will do the revision of the Audit Office, that we also have a control mechanism. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20478	Thank you. Mrs. Sopta's looking for a replica, and I'd like to ask you to bring the debate to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20479	I really, I'm sorry to have to call you again, but I didn't insist that there must be an auditor general at the head of one office, or that there must be someone who has to have an audit exam. But to get the title of auditor without having an audit exam, I really am against it, and that part really doesn't make sense to me. And when it comes to commercial and non-communicative auditors. The auditor is the one who, in this case, we have so far had a review of financial reports. He signs and gives his opinion and signs the opinion that becomes a document. It's a document for both the bank and court 39 and everything that he defends the end. He's like a signer and he's defending it. So it's logical for me that the auditor-general or auditor-general gets the one who has the audit exam. About whether or not we have yet or not, and whether you have the quality of training, the education of these people, doesn't necessarily mean that we don't have well-trained and well-trained, good auditors, because people have passed somewhere else, verified diplomas and whatever. I was also told that what Gossa Milićević said was not auditors in other countries. I was told that in Croatia there was no condition for an audit exam. I really tried and called Šima Krsić's office and was read to me by their rules and told that the audit exam and how it should be. But they were doing it under the monitoring of the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20480	Thank you. The audit institution must be, a non-profit institution, if it is a managerial type, it will be the most profitable institution in our country and should therefore be dedicated to this story. Dušanka Majkić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20481	...the commercial sector is being conducted by current auditors. There is no institution in this country that is responsible for education of auditors for the public sector. That's the first thing. Second, as you lawyers will, we said that a degree in law school can have a major auditor. Never would an accounting union in Republika Srpska grant an auditor's certificate to a lawyer. Is that what it means is that all other professions are except for the economists that they can do the work of the chief auditor and his deputy, which makes no sense. That's why it defines that these people don't have to, they're as these and finally these gentlemen from the world office of the Swedish office, they're managers. And that's the kind of relationship we need to have, so don't let us identify them. In their teams, people work different profiles.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20482	Let's call the head manager of the audit office.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20483	Well, let it be called whatever it wants, but that's the basics.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20484	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Jovanović asked for a discussion. Please don't lead the replicas. We will declare the Law in the first reading, the second reading will remain for a little while to reflect. Here's a colleague of Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20485	Mr. Chairman, one question for you. Let me ask you, is this technique working or not? 40
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20486	It works.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20487	Then you don't stick to it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20488	It's possible. Don't mind me. There were rare discussions, all replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20489	I'd pray really in the future that you stick to it, or that this one, I've already said once that we turn this technique down so that whoever did the money back, and we can re-apply to our cards and do so.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20490	We have to go forward, we can't go back.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20491	I'd beg you to really stick to the future if you don't. I want to go back to the law specifically. We are talking about the law in first reading, or principles. And I have a concrete observation means that it is already up to me to say the principles where the candidates for the office of auditors must have a degree in economic or legal college. I think you professors better know that there are today and private colleges that educate people to say these professions, there are children who finish colleges and outside to say these professions, so I'm afraid that maybe some part of us, if we adopt this kind of human rights violation. To say my opinion is so I think I'm saying that in addition to economic and legal college, it means that they should be evenly audited means those who are from that profession, normal, and end some other college. So given the discussions that have been discussed so far, it seems to me that there is a logic to extend the amendment phase for neither I know seven or ten days, or if this is the case, if there is no extension of the amendment phase, I will vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20492	I thank my colleague Jovanović and it's not up to me. The technique works, but I only have you registered for discussion, and all the others were replicas so I have to inform you truthfully. Who's coming forward for the debate? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, prepare to vote. We're voting on the law in first reading. I'm asking you to come in on time. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20493	I beg you, it is not a debate, please just put in before the vote on the law what I have proposed, and I think Mr Zorić supported me, with his conclusion
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20494	To prepare a new report.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20495	on the work of the Commission and giving the Commission 10 days to draw up a new report on the role that this Parliament is bringing to the same situation as we are now in. So in 10 days, we'll vote for both first and second reading. Practically the law would come at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20496	Thank you. We're pleading here on this very conclusion. It is therefore required to establish a new report from the committee based on the debate and the guidelines that have been heard today. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - For 16, against seven, five abstentions. So we have the majority, we have both the majority. So the conclusion of Dr. Crescent was accepted. Živković and we don't have to vote on the law in the first reading. So within 10 days that commission sits down, new amendments, yes, yes, the additional amendment phase within 10 days. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. A brand-new report, so the commission will form. We're going to the 16th item of the agenda, Ad.16. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Excises of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the Commission's report on Finance and Budget /Proposals of Members Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, Jozo Križanović and Selim Bešlagić/ you are familiar with the circumstances regarding this law. I will only remind you that at the 66th session, after the debate on the fate of this legislative proposal, after the Constitutional and Legal Commission has not established that there is a constitutional basis, we adopted a conclusion that the draft law has been delivered to the committee responsible. The financial and budget committee responsible is 12. In 10.2005, she submitted the report you received. You saw that the Commission did not accept the principles of the law. We are now in a position to consider the committee's report in line with the House's conclusion that the procedure is prescribed in accordance with the Commission's report as negative. So we're discussing and deciding on a report from the committee responsible. If the report is passed the law is considered rejected, if the report is not adopted by the commission, the commission shall be given a new deadline to consider the bill and to submit a new report according to 42 new guidelines set by the House. So it's your business procedure. I'm obliged to warn you about her. I'm opening a debate on this agenda item. This is Mr. Momčilo Novaković reporting.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20497	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm really sorry. I think we've remained unclear at the last point. What I mean is, I'm asking you to explain it because, obviously, it's unclear. What does giving a new deadline mean to the commission? Does it mean new amendments?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20498	Yeah, 'cause it would be pointless.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20499	Does that mean a new amendment phase?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20500	A new amendment phase and a new report based on the amendment phase.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20501	Just to clear up what it means.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20502	Thank you. Now I think it's clearer. Thank you. Who's answering for a word about the 16th point of the agenda? On behalf of the Proposer Dr. You're a Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20503	Mr. Chairman, I expected the President of the Commission, it was usually so that the President-in-Office of the Commission came out with the report first, otherwise I wouldn't mind as a proposer to say it, but here, and besides, ladies have the advantage of thinking, now so it doesn't quite matter. I'll take your word for it when the time comes. Mrs. Palavrić sees that I've had a cold, if I've heard correctly.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20504	Thank you, Dr. President. Lagumji. So we've received written reports from the competent committees. Is the chairman of the committee in charge present? The Finance and Budget Committee. I'm asking, since the Proposer is asking, here's 43.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20505	I'll thank you. Since I'm Mr. Professor. I called the Lagumdžija, and I would expect him to call me by the three laws we had before this, after we went out to meet him, and let him be his first agenda points, so he left, so he didn't know when we brought him in, I'd rather expect them to call me to tell him what happened later. And he was on this, and I was on the Commission as well as the other members. You've got an opinion that's negative.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20506	I beg you, Mrs. Milićević, not for the work of Dr. Lagumdzija, rather than working us in Parliament to brief the Commission, if there are any written ones, if that is what the Proposer is asking for. I don't think it bothers you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20507	Mr Chairman, you have received a report from the Commission on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements and Amendments to the Act on Excises, which explains that the Commission has not adopted the Proposal for a Law and that the reasons for the discussion on non-compliance have been explained.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20508	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20509	All I can say is who voted, and that's what everyone will say individually if they feel the need.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20510	Thank you. Mrs. Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20511	I want to say that the only reason I voted against this law is because some of these items are already covered in Republika Srpska through property tax, so in Republika Srpska there is already a tax on mobile phones, cars, planes, arms taxes, and it would be pointless if I voted to introduce another tax burden, that's one reason. The second is that in paragraph 8. the rest is also mentioned by an elephant who has a ban on transport in Europe, according to the world rules, as he has treatment as a drug and accordingly cannot be here in this way. That's the only reason I voted against.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20512	Thank you. Who's coming forward for the debate? Nobody's answering. Dr. Crescent. You're a Lagumdžija. Here you go. And Miloš Jovanović. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20513	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. First I want you to
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20514	Excuse me, proposal one.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20515	Sure, go ahead. Here you go, Mr. Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20516	Here you go. Miloš Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20517	I'm sorry to think that, uh, I think maybe we should discuss this and the next point here from the Council of Ministers. Because this is also in the commission's report that she explained to the commission Mrs. Ljerka Marić and I think it would be good if she were someone from the Council of Ministers, to allow the chairman, or the finance minister, so that, that is my suggestion and perhaps to take a break and invite them.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20518	Thank you. But here's some patience, please. We'll make a deal. Here's the report from the commission on the basis of article 89. The Rules of Procedure of the House's rapporteur commission has been appointed by the chairman, Ljilju Milićević. So it means it's dr. A Lagumdžija right when he called to inform us, no matter what we have written, but it stands right in the written text and we're done. So,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20519	speak now, not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20520	Well, fine, but it's the turn if we adopt the report, or we refuse. There is a specific procedure here that the rapporteur therefore says what the reasons are and why it is rejected, because it is specific. This is the case when the commission's report is being discussed that the law would fall or pass in principle. So we rarely have this opportunity, and that's why we think that, I don't mean for the rapporteur. Ljiljana Milićević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20521	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, why did I say that, I don't mind, but this is the fifth report from this committee today and it's negative. Explained why he was rejected. I have to tell you we have a point 18th and 19th negative reports from the Commission of Constitutional and Legal Gotham and Holidays, where it just says that there are no conditions for continuing the procedure, that they have been rejected. No reason. It's the practice of a commission. The Finance and Budget Committee is writing 45 whole pages of why it is. Now there's someone to explain, I mean I can't tell you anything further than it's written.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20522	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20523	They didn't write anything here, so I expect you to call someone after these points.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20524	Thank you. We're on this agenda right now. Don't compare the work of the committees, because it's not a part of the agenda. Dr. Crescent. You're a Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20525	I thank Mr. Chairman, I also thank my colleague Jovanović for proposing that someone from the Council of Ministers be present. Here, look at this, I'm sorry that Mr. Čampara, who sits here, he's an employee of Parliament, not of the Council of Ministers. When you saw it, please, here it is that absolutely no one is here. They didn't even leave any potential victims, some clerks, assistants who should be blushing for them here. So this is really, the least spoken for in itself is more than enough.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20526	speak now, not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20527	No problem, Zorić. I mean, people aren't dead ends by the eyes. I don't mean to explain so much to anyone. Yes, it is. Yes, Mr. Professor Zorić, you don't need to be a math teacher to count these people here. Okay. This law, to remind you, is a law created on the obligation this parliament gave itself and given to the Council of Ministers a year ago. You remember that we passed the Excise Act in a different form than the House of Nations and that the Excise Act that we adopted a year ago was precisely with these amendments and additions that were given here. We didn't do anything new. In this law on amendments and additions to the Excise Act, there is even what Mr Zorić asked as a parliamentary question when to return the excise duty additional to the oil if people are heated. We even put it here in this law. In this law we have also inserted into this law what is the obligation that we ourselves have made to the Council of Ministers to make through additional excise duty laws some mechanisms that will be not only a social category, but that will be the protection of domestic production. 46 For these reasons, I would like to ask Mr. Chairman only here if anyone has the patience to watch this argument. The Commission has rejected our proposal. If we accept the commission's report, then our law died and our conclusion died from the beginning, the end of the year, at the end of last year, to settle this in the right way. If I call on the Parliamentary Assembly to reject this commission report and try to do something about it anyway. Namely, look at the explanation. Why was our excise law rejected? First, we are told because this must be done with extreme caution that this must be done with extreme caution. Be careful, we are told that it must be done with extreme caution after we have put what this house has already adopted in this law alone. We haven't even taken any further action just to respect this home's decision. Then it is said here that luxury products are not clearly and unequivocally defined. I agree there are things here that can be better defined, but that can be better defined by working on the law or on amendment, or otherwise, not being rejected because it's not clearly defined. I think if you want very clearly, you can define some things. At the very least, in law whether it's a good categorization of luxury cars, whether it's a good category of aircraft, or whether it's meant to build these luxury planes on luxury and not luxury planes, that's another question now, and we could have done that, but not by refusing this law. And in the end, what I find most inappropriate, you see this law has one point of view that they can further tax those goods that enter our country under denping prices and thus violate domestic prices, so to speak, they go directly against the domestic producer, and especially those goods that are additionally subsidized outside, and we are not subsidized at all. And so our bill was, above all, this one in the function of protecting domestic production and here it was rejected with the following argument – if it is necessary to introduce measures against unfair competition from other countries should not use these laws, but legislation on external trade and anti-dumping. So we're told you don't need to use this law, but you need to use some other law that they didn't use when they were rules. Mr. Chairman, we have come in a position to suspend the free trade agreement with some neighbouring countries precisely because there are subsidized goods and here comes to our market, and on our market these goods had no subsidy. And instead of breaking interstate agreements, we could have solved it through one of these laws, like these countries do through laws like this. As we had recently had information about the external trade deficit for your information, whoever was following it could see that the trade deficit in the first nine months exceeded the trade deficit that year when this ruling coalition came to power. The trading deficit for these nine months is bigger than the deficit you've taken over. A trade deficit if this trend goes, will cross seven billion marks by the end of the year. The trade deficit has already been reported to be more than twice the amount we have in foreign exchange reserves this year, which makes our KM a conversion mark. So our trading deficit this year is going to be over twice what we have money to cover in foreign currency. And that's why this was also a small attempt to make this further action of those goods that are destroying this little domestic production better. I'm not going to talk about the data we had saying that we imported 15 times more water than we exported, and at least it could have been defined here in some way. I will not specifically talk about a country that serves as a role model when we are convinced that a VAT rate such as Denmark annually from Brussels has more resources from Brussels than the amount of the BiH, Republika Srpska and the Federation budget combined. And I call on you, therefore, to reject this commission's report so that we can do something in line with what this Parliament's obligation is to ourselves, and what is more important is the obligation of the moment we live in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20528	Thank you, sir. Nikola Špirić, the chairman, please be my guest. Have Mrs. Sead Palavrić prepare.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20529	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed fellow Members of Parliament, I have just joined this discussion Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, and I'll say for what reasons. I know that our committees of parliament have not been captivated that they can conduct discussions in one quality way, that they are not well or serviced that they can come to conclusions that are in the interest of our country, but here I will just try to say what I think they should have done and what kind of report they might have come up with. I think that here, that the commission had to analyse, if the objectives and requirements are well set here in the requirements of the motion for amendments and additions to the Law on excise duties in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where import cuts are said to be reduced, deficit cuts, increased coverage of imports, protection of domestic production, an increase in budgetary resources that should be directed into development projects and what must be the answer to whether these changes also achieve one of the objectives set for amending the law. I really didn't get one either, so through this report the commission didn't get an answer and if I think these goals can be achieved in this way and maybe it's a shame we didn't have the exchange to sit down and talk about how. And even if you need to define luxury cars etc. No one can convince me that AUDI domestic product and therefore additional taxation of luxury products cannot increase the state budget and aliminate some other needs that are needed through Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's why I think it's hard here to defend against the public's eyes that we're not able to tax luxury in this country. And I don't think that's what MPs and board members do to protect anyone, anyone in this country, but that commissions are simply not serviced that they can provide answers to what's going to happen with a particular goal set by someone who changes the law. Reduction of imports. It is, of course, luxury products from imports that, if you therefore further tax them that you will see a reduction in imports. Because people are looking for a similar product on the domestic market if there is one. Or are they willing to pay for increased customs and excise duty if they want to drive the most luxurious car in Bosnia and Herzegovina. How can it be said that we will not further tax and consider AUDI a domestic product, and we want to tax milk with one rate. So fundamental debates must be conducted, not because the proposal came from the SDP or came from, say, SNSD or SDS or HDZ. I don't want to be burdened by that story. Or let's say 48 if there's going to be a reduction in the balance of payments deficits. Yes, but there will be a reduction in the balance of payments deficits. But here the question arises why the executive power and we are all unable to deal with what is the problem of this country. Who do we fill our pockets with in this country? Well, you only remember how many times we've extended contracts, certain contracts, and we here in Parliament, explaining that it's going to jeopardize employment. And did that decision increase employment? We didn't! It's something that's not a domestic product we declared a domestic product because we declared it an investment. So it's legalization. Unfortunately, I have to say that I took part in those decisions because I've been explained that this is going to happen. But we don't have, simply our commissions haven't, so they don't have a service that can answer these questions to get the right report. I am so that this report is rejected. And I did so to get in correspondence with the Council of Ministers to give an answer. Why wouldn't an hour of 10,000 marks or 50,000 marks be extra taxed? Well, it doesn't matter how much, and why shouldn't I be? I think it should be done precisely for the work of well-set goals in this change. And the easiest thing to do is write a negative report and this is a sensitive problem. But for the sake of her sensitivity, she needs to work patiently. So you can imagine when the luxury products that are the subject of taxation are said here are not clearly and unequivocally defined. Well, now that I'm back to it, we didn't even train the statistical office to have a clear statistical nomenclature of certain products. We didn't do it either because we didn't let us have a good statistical office. So there we would have in the nomenclature and the product code that we want to say are luxury products. But it was supposed to be discussed. So we could get to a group of luxury products that aren't encrypted. So on this basis, let's say that you collect millions more marks in this unfortunate country, and for a million marks you can make here now to bid the accident on the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina 100 refugee houses. Well, it's not a little shift. But we are not able to simply do this job because this gray zone that affects political miles in Bosnia and Herzegovina is stronger than the state budget. So people outside are warning us that there's another budget out of the budget at all levels. Now, that gray zone decides who's going to be the minister of the ministry. That's why I'm not voting for this report because I think the reasons for the applicant are absolutely good. Thank you. Who's coming forward for the debate? Dr. Avdić, then the doctor, and I apologize to Sead and Dr. Avdić, and Dr. Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20530	I thank you and I want to say that in my opinion, it is a fact that our commissions are not serviced enough. Not because existing people would not do it, but simply because at later points we will see how many people we miss in the Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat, so that we can serve commissions. However, I cannot accept the assessment that members of the commission have not been personally assigned to discuss the issues discussed before them. So, I believe that the members of the Finance and Budget Commission are fully aware of the debate and of the analysis of this bill. I think the Commission's report is a complete reflection of the bill Mr Lagumdžija offered. I really congratulate Mr Lagumdžija for offering the law and trying to solve this problem that we all wanted to solve almost a year ago and for 49 who told the deadline until January 31st, to come out with the bill proposal, hence the adequate proposal of the excise law and not the ones that we took over as it existed because of the speed of the arrival of the new year, a year ago. I'm sorry Mr. Lagumdzija's proposal really doesn't fit the condition we'd need to solve the luxury goods problem, I'm sorry. And that's why I'm saying, there are all these evaluations of the Commission, but I don't miss the Council of Ministers here either, because we gave the Law on the indirect tax system of jurisdiction in this area to the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority. And here sits the chairman of the board of directors of indirect taxation, Mr. Dikson. And I would really like to be a member of this Parliament once to know why I can give these assessments that stand, but it cannot be offered a law that would be adequate to solve the problem of excise goods, why? So, I speak directly to Mr. Dikson and ask him to give us an answer, because we've passed such a law, why haven't we been offered a law today on excise, amending the Act of Action? Whether it will be through the Excise Act, whether it will be through interventions in foreign trade, in anti-dumping, I don't know what the Administration thinks, but I really can't forgive myself for 10 months waiting for the Management Board of indirect taxation to offer an adequate law, so that the most luxurious car, fur and bread wouldn't have the same tax base, actually tax rate. I've advocated it, and that's why I have the full right and the moral right to call Mr. Dikson, to explain to us when we're going to have a law that will eliminate the shortcomings of the current Excise Act. So, I'd like to hear Mr Dikson first and then what he is is the fact that we accept this report from the Commission but I expect Mr Diskon to offer us what we asked for, to end by 31 January this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20531	I thank my colleague Palavrić. Dr. Avdić answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20532	I think this is a very interesting topic today and in this context should not have any prejudice on anything and at least on the applicants of this proposal or anything else. It is possible that in the methodology of managing such very controversial points, which mean the really fundamental interest of ordinary citizens, ordinary people in BiH, is to listen to all information, opinions, etc. There is here in the Commission's report that the indirect taxation administration is against this law amending the Excise Act. It would be really good to hear an additional explanation of the Directorate for indirect taxation in terms of not supporting such a law on amendments to the Excise Act in BiH. That's number one, and it would be good if we really heard Mr. Diskon and the arguments that motivated the administration to just not support these amendments to the law. Secondly, I think that the Commission of the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Commission for Finance and Budget, should give us a conditional opinion on me, one impartial opinion, so if it is necessary to use additional experts, so we have also thought there in the methodology of making a new Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives and Parliament as a whole, that all relevant opinions should be really heard in these matters, and to achieve this degree of simplicity, the ability to make such a decision and simply to present 50 to Parliament. Which means, I am reading this final conclusion of the Commission, if it is necessary to introduce measures against unfair competition, the subsidisation of products from other countries should not be used by legislation, which treat excises, but rather by legislation on external trade and anti-dumping, which provides for appropriate percentages, etc. ensure that BiH does not introduce new import duties, which are contrary to its international obligations, established free trade agreements with neighbouring countries. Again, we come to the beginning of simple stories of unfair competition, anti-doping on subsidised products and simply this dramatic external trade imbalance of seven billion by the end of the year, which means, taking into account one assessment of many in Eastern Europe, Bosnia and Herzegovina is one of the most liberal import-export regimes. If we're completely confronted, we have one of the most liberal import-export regimes and we're afraid that WTO or someone else will simply make an observation about what we've been doing, then it's really sad. Then we really don't think well of this state of BiH. What does it really mean that we cannot take fate into our own hands, simply that this Parliament bears full responsibility for what it solves? There are no people here, prejudice whether it's SDP, whether it's another party or party. There's no prejudice whether it's a doctor named Lagumdžija, Bešlagić or I don't know who else or anyone else. I'm asking you, so there's really a lot of arguments here, and there's a lot of reason to look at this objectively and to really adopt this law amending the law. Loved or not liked, but simply objectively, this law is on the right track that as easily as the dramatic state, the economic social situation in BiH. So, I repeat again, it is unacceptable that a small country called BiH, the area of Southeast Europe, has one of the most liberal import and export regimes today in Southeast Europe. It's a fact, it's a fact, it's true. Then, in my opinion, in this context, the Commission's conclusion is unacceptable, especially this last one here seeking a new report from the Commission. I propose not to support the Commission's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20533	I thank Dr. Avdić. Dr. Duraković picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20534	I wouldn't say this again, if I were Dr Avdić and Lagumdžijaj and the others, I think the explanation that we got from the committee in charge is quite inconclusive, unfounded, and I suggest that this Parliament be rejected by the report of this committee. Why? We're coming back to the key issue. Here, in its explanation, the Commission also took note of the letter from the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board, etc. Again, a paradoxical and humiliating situation turns out for this parliament. It's that the IRS will determine which and what kind of law we will bring into this parallel. That's really funny. If they have some basis in the decisions that we have previously made, we can undo them and cancel them, because this situation can't be in the future, then this parallel doesn't make any sense at all. The explanation is given by Finance and Treasury Minister Ljerka Marić. The minister herself shows, first of all, that she's a dilettante, that she's incompetent and incompetent. And this minister should be asking the question, how come 7 billion marks of deficits? What does that mean by this country? And if we're already calling ourselves parrots to your Europe and America, whoever was in 51 America, I've had a chance to see her with my friends and there's a symbol of status to have one angry Mercedes or a BMW bar, but that Mercedes in America costs $400,000 and not a stamp, because the taxes are on care like on a luxury supply of 200 or 300 thousand dollars and not marks. So if we refer to Germany, one small boat, it pays thousands of marks a year, not to say yachts and other luxury goods. The paradox of the situation is that the EU countries are more protected than this in customs, whether it is contingents, whether it is taxes, or other measures to defend their market, than this poor, troubled BiH, which is the last or the last in Europe in terms of economic development and everything else. It is the most open market in which today's testing is being tested and the drugs missed and the outdated imports of all scum, all of Europe's waste is being imported here. Look, in the Federation we have reliable data, there are more luxury cars than the number of employees. Look only in Sarajevo or Banja Luka, there are more jeeps of furious, most expensive jeeps than in any proportional number of people and employees in any country of the world and any city of the world. Even if I don't count on it. So will this country once say, well, come on, we gave last year's 20th and a few million marks to imports of acid water, BiH lying on acidic water, which has the best springs of acid water in Europe. The synonym of this water was from the Romans to here, the acid here in the neighborhood or the Teshan water or the zornica water or the Tuzlan water etc. Just one example. We're importing what, now we're talking about the bird's fever, so we're in a fever a long time ago, all the waste of chicken Europe being imported here and without any restrictions, etc. So these poor people here for three months are lying in front of this parliament, and nobody's going to take them in to protect the domestic producer. So this Parliament has a duty to do so. Well, if that's all it is now, if those luxury goods are well-numbered, then they're elephants, then we throw out or we throw out, it doesn't matter. She is certainly forbidden. But let's see if we know what luxury goods are. They know what a luxury car is, everything over 1900 cubics is luxurious, etc. I therefore propose that we reject the Commission's report and that this Parliament adopt this draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Excises of BiH if there is any possibility that something else could possibly be done, I have no objection, but I think it is our obligation and responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20535	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Gligorić, is it a replica or a discussion? Discussion. Novaković, Mr. Zorić replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20536	I would like to replicate Mr. Duraković on his warm pledge to the BiH budget and just to remind him, that the BiH Party here when we discussed customs tariffs was deliberately committed to liberating customs imports of spare parts for wolksvagen, so that they also deliberately advocated here that the sales tax on luxury cars such as Audi and Wolksvagen would be 10% and not 20%, etc. So, of course, I am absolutely on the line that you really need to separate luxury products from, uh, and that the graduation is not the same in BiH and in America or Germany or any other country. But it's also expected that we all discuss this matter in principle, when we discuss it. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20537	Thank you. Dr. Gligorić, the debate. Here's the replica, Dr. Duraković. You can just turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20538	...nothing with that proposal but this is not what Novaković was talking about, because it was the subject of liberating those products that are made in military factories, and they are domestic. This applies first of all to these damages that are in the Wolksvagen concert.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20539	Thank you. Dr. Gligorić. Please don't replicate from the scene.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20540	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the previous debates have already said a lot in terms of how important this is when we talk about the bill of amendments and additions to the Excise Act, how important it is to find the mechanism and to keep in mind and citizens and the unfair relationship that we have when it comes to the social part and, of course, how to fill the quality budget, which is our obligation. We talked here about the fact that the Commission has stated its reasons during the examination and that the report is negative, related to this proposal to amend and supplement the law, and I believe that the Commission has virtually succumbed to the opinion of the Directorate for Direct Taxation and the Ministers for Finance and the Treasury, because it has strictly acted on how the administration or the Ministry is committed under this proposal. And that's why we got a negative report. All that was said in the discussion in the sense that it was necessary to take into account other reasons, obviously that it was not taken into account. It would be good for us to hear Mr. Dikson, and I agree with Mrs. Palavrić's proposal and others who have joined, I'd like to join in. But, ultimately, in terms of our work on this proposal, I don't think in this case, we need opinions and Mr Dikson or the IRS. We need to take that fate, as we often like to say in our own hands, and regarding this proposal to amend the law that is necessary and necessary BiH, to simply define it in a way that this report is rejected as unacceptable, and that simply this bill is going into its own procedure and that we adopt it and thus say that Parliament has a mechanism to address this issue of amending and supplementing the Excise Act, which is urgent and urgent, one of the most important issues that we have to solve, because we also mentioned the Foreign Trade Agreement with other countries. Of course, in relation to other countries that have been built, which are functional, which are independent, we always suffer in these relationships. The suffering of our budget as our citizen, from having already said we eat garbage, to simply not being able to adequately pair all these countries that have entered an unprotected space here, and that is why we are, in this way, giving an example that we are getting up and having the ability to protect our citizens on our own, protect our institutions and protect our budget. And that's why I think that I don't need the opinion of the indirect tax administration at all, because we've made a mistake ourselves, and especially the majority of the congregation, because personally, here I am saying it's not an incentive, we've given them the opportunity to give us an opinion. But ultimately, and if 53 give us that opinion, it does not mean anything that we in Parliament can take that opinion, even if it is negatively simple to take it into account, ignore and move on if we believe we are working in the interests of BiH institutions and citizens. This bill of law is the solution. And I will therefore join in this sense that this Commission report, we reject and thus allow this amendment and the addition of the law to be simply an integral part of the previous law which did not define this issue when it comes to luxury goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20541	Thank you. Dr. Lagumdžija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20542	Mr. Chairman, I'm only reporting because this one, after the president of the SDA's Club of Representatives, asked Mr. Dikson to explain something to her, and the man rightly doesn't move, this one, because, namely, I want to be fenced by the need to explain to us what she asked him. Don't let a man think none of us know what she asked him. A very clear Law on the Board on indirect taxation systems in BiH, Official Journal 44 years 7 of 31 December 2003, said in Article 4, that the Directorate for indirect taxation is the only body relevant for implementation, underlining the implementation of the legal rules on indirect taxation and policy implementation, established by the Council of Ministers. Then, the board of directors whose head is sitting, stands etc. The Governing Board, led by Mr Dikson, was very clear in Article 14, said, appropriate for determining the policy proposals. The member is also said to be responsible for the BiH Council of Ministers for his work. So there's nothing unclear about it, all you have to do is read it, and even when you read it, you have to accept what it says. And that's why it really bothers me to call someone here for a quick ride around that new year, because that speed around the new year is respected. But here's the new year, and there's no reason for that speed to really be this one, now we're forgetting. And by the way, since I'm here, I'm told that I miss the Council of Ministers, so I don't miss the Council of Ministers at all, but I think they praise it here. It's not normal they're not here. They don't thank me at all, they don't miss me, but they're like the Institute of Praises here to sit down and it's a tragedy of their kind.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20543	Thank you. The replica of Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20544	No replica, I'd just like to supplement my colleague's proposal, Professor Lagumdžija. I also don't feel the need for Mr. Dikson to explain anything here. They wrote what they thought of this. I want to say that the Commission was attended by Mrs Ljerka Marić, Kemal Čaušević of the World Bank, I forgot the name of the man, I personally miss the apropo of what you read, I'm not ready and my colleagues, I suppose, to discuss the report, to return the report to cool, to warm the water, until the representatives of the Council of Ministers come and say what they think about this. And I think it's time to take a break, if it's possible to give, so until we get people here from the Council of Ministers to share responsibility for this together and find the best solutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20545	Does that mean you're looking for a break? 54
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20546	Yes, but to call the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20547	So, please, let's give it a try. Shall we take a break an hour or half an hour, and take a break for lunch? Half an hour, please don't watch, we've got a lot of work to do. Half an hour, break. I ask you to take the opportunity to eat lunch and not to give a break afterwards, and to inform the Council of Ministers, the Resort Ministry and the Chairman, to attend the session. We're going back to work. [[PAUZA]] We have a quorum as far as I could count, right? We have a quorum. There was a break at Mrs Ljiljana Milićević's request. In the meantime, I had a chance to contact the Council of Ministers. Unfortunately, the resolute foreign trade and finance ministers are absent, the chairman of the Council of Ministers also has urgent obligations outside the building but has pledged to ensure the presence of those who, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, can defend the Council of Ministers' views when it comes to the law. Of course, here we also have the Chairman of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Directorate of Mr. Đoli Dikson and if he feels he has the need to address the MPs, to interpret, also here in the name of the College, therefore called. The word came before the break, Mr. Vinko Zorić, but I don't see him in the O.R. I beg you when we set a break, ask for more time or start on time. Who wants to talk? I ask therefore for the Council of Ministers' presence, who is in charge on behalf of the Council of Ministers to give arguments? Is there anyone on behalf of the Council of Ministers that he has come, that he may give an explanation regarding this law? There's no one here. No, no, I told you already, I contacted the Council of Ministers and the resolution ministers are officially absent, outside Sarajevo, chairing her at a meeting outside the building. It has been said he will try to find someone who can interpret the Council of Ministers' views on behalf of the ministry. It's probably a problem because the ministers are in the field. So, I'm passing on what I've heard. But since there isn't, so there's no one who can speak for the Council of Ministers, if Mr. Dikson wants to speak, here's an opportunity. Mr. Đoni Dikson, go ahead. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20548	Thank you so much for giving me your word. The Management Board of the Taxation Administration considers the Commission's report on finance and budget to be a good report and calls on Parliament to adopt it. In its report, the Commission highlighted a number of substantial failures in the application for amendments to the law. The first problem is that the proposed amendments are incomplete. This suggests that luxury items, including jewelry, should be additionally taxed but neither the tax base is defined nor the tax base is correct, that is, that is, neither is it proposed any tax rate, so that the proposed request, or amendments that are not complete in that sense, or are not complete. 55 The second thing is that the proposed amendments cannot be subject to an effective finding of what they wanted to achieve. If you want to introduce a tax on luxury cars, yachts, airplanes, etc., each European country considered and considered it better to use a special law to tax it than to use the Excise Act for those purposes. I would also suggest that a similar approach be taken here in BiH, and the Governing Board would be very happy to co-operate with Parliament, on this, to draft the law. Third, the final reason why the Management Board considers that you should support the Commission's report is that adoption of the amendments would allow the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Council of Ministers, to introduce a tax on certain products at the moment when they consider it necessary. It would be a dangerous precedent for Parliament. In all other cases, tax legislation precisely determines the well-being of a taxpayer when and as a matter of fact, imposes a tax in certain cases. But these amendments give authority to the Council of Ministers to decide when and how to introduce taxes on certain products. As I said, in my opinion it is a dangerous precedent and I would call on Parliament to think very carefully about it. Finally, Mr. Chairman, I think you yourself have pointed out how these proposed amendments should be tried, and we need to ensure that they make sense in terms of tax policy and protection of domestic production. And I believe these amendments do not meet any of the above criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20549	I thank Mr. Dikson for these explanations. Who's next to the word? Dr. Lagumdžija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20550	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to propose, uh, the sequence of this discussion that has been going on so far, and I respect the suggestions and remarks that have been made by this, by colleagues and colleagues in terms of the need to specify certain things in this law. So once again, I repeat that these amendments and additions to the laws that we have given to the letter are prescribed and represent the difference between what this House adopted and what we have finally restored because of the longer text in the House of Peoples. I mean, I'm glad that Mr. Diskon said that this, that the Management Board is ready to actively engage in solving what was the objective of this law. Did, I mean, naturally, disagree on that, about a lot of details, but here, if I understood correctly, listening first, I saw that there was a willingness on the board that these inaccuracies that exist could be built up. I would also like to say that I'm afraid it's a bad translation again, but in this bill, we are not proposing that the Council of Ministers be allowed to introduce itself additional excise duties. It is practically proposed that the Council of Ministers may introduce domestic market distortions, in order to stimulate domestic production, so that additional taxes can be introduced for each product whose import price has been reduced by the export incentives of the state, it is called for us, unfair competition, unless such a product has no incentive in our country and since this is always an intervention matter, as we have had the case with this Free Trade Agreement, the suspension of the Free Trade Agreement with our neighbours, here 56 is clearly stated that, in the decisions of this matter, when it comes to urgent matters, the Council of Ministers should report to the Parliamentary Assembly no later than 15 days later and if the Council of Ministers does not report to the Parliamentary Assembly within a given time period, or if it does not accept the Council of Ministers's report, then practically that provisional decision does not apply. It is a practical provision to the Council of Ministers that, within 15 days, they can react urgently in such cases when a commandant of goods appears and after 15 days if Parliament does not confirm it, it is no longer valid. So this is not giving the Council of Ministers the possibility of introducing additional taxes. This is merely the possibility of legally given to the Council of Ministers in case of an intervention event, it can practically make something called by our technology a provisional decision which is valid for 15 days if the Council of Ministers, if this Parliament, after 15 days, Parliament has to confirm that it would continue to be valid. With that in mind, I therefore, Mr Špirić, to conclude this, I suggest that if what has been said so far is acceptable, that the conclusion is that the law is returned to the Commission, normally if we accept the Commission's report, then all of this falls into the water. But unless a report from the Commission is accepted, I am going beyond the conclusion that this law is returning to the Commission with a new deadline for the amendment phase, something similar to what we had before, until the meeting of the competent commission and calls on the Management Board for indirect taxation and the Council of Ministers to be involved in the drafting of this law. In other words, therefore, to return this to the Commission and then also to the Management Board and the Council of Ministers in line with what other colleagues who have really had concrete objections are, let's see how to make this amendment work. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20551	I thank Dr. Lagumdžija. Is anyone else answering for word? Filip Andrić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20552	Thank you, Mr. President. I would support this kind of thinking, with this and this proposal to conclude, by proposing perhaps a supplement that would now be appointed to me here by a working group that will work on this law and also by the Council of Ministers and the Department of Immaculate Taxation, to help us in all of this, in order to come together to a quality solution. I hope for both pleasures, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20553	Thank you. He's reporting. I'm sorry, Dr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20554	I don't mind forming a task force, but just to be clear. So, if the Commission's report goes down, this law in this form goes as the starting material, just a colleague to Andrić, because we already formed a working group almost a year ago, both homes that were supposed to do all this, became the obligation of both homes, even a group formed as I recall. Isn't that right, Ljiljo? A group was formed that did nothing and there was no starting material. 57 So my conclusion is that this law remains alive at this stage conditionally speaking, the starting material, and then let this commission or anyone, I agree with the working group, but it's important that this law enters it. There, I accept that.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20555	Thank you. I'm asking you a little bit, who's calling for an argument? And if anyone has a conclusion, let them say so. Don't open the line now, here's the conclusion. We'll make a democratic statement about everything. So, Sead Palavrić, is it a replica or a debate? The debate, so Mrs. Milićević, the debate or
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20556	Unfortunately, for the second time, the debate is for the simple reason that we are obviously in a misunderstanding. What I understood from the translation of Mr Dikson's speech is that the proposed law doesn't fit the needs at all, that the problem needs to be solved by a special law, by a special law. And there he demonstrated the willingness of the Directorate for indirect taxation to work on the special law together with parliamentarians and the Council of Ministers andski all. Here, we deliver the deadline, we're working on it, but the proposed conclusion can't really go because it's quite the opposite of understanding.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20557	Thank you, Ljilja Milićević, and we are bringing the debate to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20558	Mr. Chairman, what Mr. Andrić and Mr. Lagumdžija have proposed, we must return this quickly, a little retroactively and say, when we adopted the Law on Transport and Excise Taxes, we said that we would adopt it on condition that we would receive innovative amendments and additions which would mean respecting the will of both homes. Otherwise, we'll be working on a proposal to amend and supplement two laws. After that, we contacted the Commission several times in writing – the Council of Ministers and they together and the administration and we are informed that the Board of Ministers is the Board of Ministers, that they have a draft bill, that it is at some stage of harmonisation. So it's been done, both by excises and by the sales tax that's already been late since January 1st, he's gone. I'm interested first of all, before any working groups are formed, what is the fate of the Excise Act that has been done and I'm not the one for us to hire people on that, if anyone does, we know what our commissions are doing. You can't get someone to write the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20559	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to discuss it? Sir, please, if we can just help, don't, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20560	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for giving me your word. Any slowdown in the process that should start with 1.1 and if this is about
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20561	Let's just listen to a fellow Potočnik, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20562	Whether it's a tax base, whether it's excises, I say, any slowdown in this process is an extension of the agony of the BiH economy and people. That's why there's a regular path and there's something that needs to be done that's bad, but it doesn't make sense to delay 1.1 to start working on this system. And that's why I'm voting against this bill and I'm voting against the new VAT law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20563	Thank you. Is there anyone else here to discuss this? He's not answering. Mr. Zorić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20564	I'm not the one for what it is, I wasn't listening to it, but I was quickly informed, and I'm allowing that I won't be all right. But I was informed that Mr. Dikson said there was a new law to be made on luxury goods. What about the lye oil, for example.? One household that will burn well should spend 5,000 marks on heating. And we're talking, then we, then I'm called television journalists, would you say anything about how they call it segregation about this, about that. Someone spends in Sarajevo, I'm not jealous, but I want it to be fair, he's freed from excise duty and gas taxes and pays a thousand stamps a year for heating and I have to pay five thousand marks. Yes, excellent, thank you, Mr. Bešlagić, for understanding, for the citizens of BiH who are heating up on the vine oil. Thank you very much, Mr. Bešlagić. Thank you very much, yes. Especially if you're ingesting gas, then I'll heat up, eh. So, I am for this conclusion that Filip suggested and I am for amendments and additions to the Excise Taxation Act, but what Mr. Bešlagić and his two friends wrote did not include what we were looking for in the January, or at the adoption, did not. I don't want anyone to pay me back. I want mine not to take away from me. I'm not a bank to lend someone. I mentioned today to my colleague Avdić, that in Croatia INA and MOL must not infuse it with anyone, because the law exists, that it must not pour in luxury car lot oil. And they won't get past it by heart in the car. And why do our pumpers have that in their head? Because no one's gonna sanction them. No Niko's gonna sanction them for that. And this vine oil is for 60 fening cheaper in Croatia than in BiH. And that's what I'm talking about, and I'm about to end that excise charge, to introduce these cars that are produced in Vogosca, to introduce both taxes and excise duties and everything. Because if I buy golf in Vogosca, or Germany, when I bring the one from Germany and pay taxes and customs and excise fees, the same thing comes to me as this one in Vogosca. Who's making money here? Is it a state or a company? The state isn't. BiH citizens are not, because they are also costing them golf from Germany and Vogosce. So someone's making a great living here. It's a superprofit. And who let them do that? State. You don't have to pay for this, this, this, this, but if anyone's going to go to Germany, they have to pay for this, this, this. And he pays for it, and it costs him the same thing. So let's not build a country here when it suits us and we don't care, don't throw it away, please. Ljerka Marić went to Moscow to pay for gas. Whose money? 59 Everyone's money. I'm only warming up for my money. She went to Moscow to pay for gas. We all know that. And last year when there was a very important law here. Where's Ljerka? In Moscow. What did she leave for? Pay for gas.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20565	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Sopta. Please, let's bring the debate to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20566	Mr. Chairman, I'm going to try to go in some kind of compromise solution. And I guess it's clear to all of us that the subject of opportunity is marked, which we all want to discuss, that we all want to change something. I would suggest that we go through some kind of peaceable method and way because we used to have a law on excise duty on luxury goods, that we go, and that we had special laws on excise duties and on luxury shoes, personally for cars, especially for alcohol, especially for nothing. I agree that we're doing a special excise duty law on luxury goods, but let's compare it with the changes to these, to these two laws that are very important. Indeed, there is an impression that regional discrimination is being carried out. You know, we've got it as well as the Council of Ministers, we as representatives from Herzegovina have received remarks from the Government of West Herzegovina, or suggestions from the Government of West Herzegovina to allow them to purchase a range of oil for institutions and for households that are heated on the lodge of oil. Most of it's just this part, that's how it went down, what, I'm going to say, where it lives more Croatianly, but they turned around, no one answered them. I asked the last time on our commission, Mr. Ceausevic, what about that letter they delivered? They were responsible and said that they had sent it somewhere in the Ministry of Economy and Energy at the Federation level. I mean, it's a piece of writing from here to here, we asked that question last year, we passed the law provided that something was done, nothing was done. And indeed, I think we can compromise this, we can go with the new Expensive Taxation Act, but we can also go with the amendments to these two laws in these important things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20567	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Here you go, Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20568	Mr. Zorić, you can really introduce gas without any pipelines. A tank is taken and a tank comes to you if you don't get that bill of yours. But this is about one thing I have to say. Who was obliged to propose these laws? You remember when we passed the law, it was said that within 60 days, the Council of Ministers would come out with a proposal. We gave the bill after 60 days, and now you're criticizing the law, and you're not criticizing the Council of Ministers who didn't do their job. Well, now it's our fault. We're talking about things where it's not ideal and I agree absolutely with a number of things that should be fixed, but the Council of Ministers that should experience criticism, which, after all this, should also be called by the Management Board for indirect taxation, why it's not all done and it's come here with these suggestions that we're talking about here. You simply, here we are now exposed, which 60 farts of the law are exposed to that criticism. Let's be exposed, let's let the citizens see who doesn't do their job. So, I think there's enough proposal, we've accepted enough criticism and everything. Here you go, Mr. Chairman, wrap up this part of the meeting, I mean these agenda points. I think it is very important to either say "ja" or "bu" or "refuse" or "accept" with the variants and modes that will be in the interest of the citizens of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20569	Thank you. We don't need to be sensitive to the criticism of the law, which is why we're here to criticize, correct, adopt. That's our job. Mr. Zorić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20570	Here I am called. This way, it would be a lot easier for me to get on Sara's train than for a car. And so, I need one of you to recommend that I build a railroad to my hometown and travel by train.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20571	Thank you. Please don't throw yourself out of place. I ask the MPs to make sure they don't get it from the scene. Is there anyone to report for the hearing? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate, ladies and gentlemen, and let's get this job done. First, we will declare the Commission's report, so that we can even create conditions for a statement on the conclusion of Dr Lagumdžija. So, I call on the MPs, prepare to vote. You are voting on the Commission's report. I want to remind you. If Dom accepts the report by the committee in charge from the previous point, the proposed law is considered rejected. If he does not accept the report from the committee responsible, the House will ask the competent commission to draw up a new report, etc. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 17, versus 13, abstention 2. No entity from the Federation. We've got to get to the alignment, but we don't have a third member of the College, and unfortunately, today, we can't cheat. You will be informed of,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20572	Suppose it doesn't add up, so let's put on a vote right now, let's move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20573	Here, so if there's no consensus, 61
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20574	You can't do that without a third member. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20575	So, but even if he agrees, the Šefik disagrees, but we can delay it, it's not a problem. Just a little bit, please. We've got business to do. If there's a mood to vote on phase two, I'm ready because there's no consensus, so me and Šefik disagree, my colleague Martin can't change even if he agrees. So it's important one doesn't agree. I put mine out by voting, and the Šefik is voting. So, we Rules of Procedure, so we won't be wrong if we vote in the second round. If you insist on staying by [[Common discussion]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20577	When the last time my conclusions and Mr. Lagumdžija were not agreed, why wasn't it counter-pronounced? Because there weren't 10 from the RS here who would be against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20578	That wasn't the reason.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20579	Yeah, she wasn't there, she wasn't there. Look at the listing, was it 10 from the RS, last time against when it was voted on the conclusions by, well, then I'm wrong if it was but,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20580	So, please, I get it. So you want me to.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20581	It wasn't the last time, and it wasn't the opposite. Please deliver the report to us and we'll vote on the report. Report, did you make a deal or didn't you?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20582	Okay, okay, so there's no conditions for us to go to the alignment, now there's no third member of the College, I'm here to respect it, so even though it can be interpreted one way or the other. So we ended up on the 16th point of the agenda. We're going to the 17th point of the agenda, I think it's better if we're done with this 16th, this is how it stays open to us but what we can do. 62 So we move to the 17th point of the agenda, thank Mr Dikson for his explanation and participation in the work of this item on this agenda. And we're going to the 17th point of the agenda, that's Ad.17. The draft law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, with the Commission's report on finance and budget, proposed by MPs Zlatko Lagumdžija, Dr Zlatko Lagumdžija, Jozo Križanović and Selim Bešlagić, and here we have the same situation as in the previous point. The competent commission did not support the principles of the proposed law. We are discussing and deciding on a report from the committee responsible. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20583	Will my conclusion then be voted upon after the vote on the Commission's report?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20584	Of course, of course. Of course, if depending on, yes, it is. It's a living suggestion. It's a being. We'll take care of it. So, I'm opening a debate on the 17th item of the agenda. Who's answering for a word? Is there a need on behalf of the Commission to feel the need to explain? There isn't. We have a written report. Who's picking up the word? The Commission doesn't want to. Dr. Lagumdžija,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20585	Eh, well, thank you, Mr. Chairman. This law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act has been rejected by the Commission. I'm sorry my colleague Miličević didn't explain this a little bit. Namely, I would like to remind you that we practically gave this law two months ago and I am pleased that it has finally arrived on the agenda, and everything that we have warned ourselves about has been deliberately delayed, organised by the Board of Directors and the Council of Ministers, in order to come into a time teat. In the Commission's report, the reason why our draft law, amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act were rejected is that the proposal for this law would prevent the implementation of the existing law from being implemented for a short period of time. And that's why different arguments are offered. The key argument that speaks in favor of this is software which is, if I understand correctly purchased, purchased or already done with it whatever it is. In fact, I also told the Commission, and now I repeat, because here it says that if this law were to be adopted, that any change in software would lead to deadlines being broken. I said it on the Commission, and I want to say it here today, if it's a software that only buys one rate, then that's what Nijaz says about The Hag, but thank Bog, because it's not like it's a war crime and it's God's peacetime. If the software I repeat is bought, it only supports one tax rate, then it's the one who created the project task, the one who approved it, and who bought it did 63 priceless damage, invaluable at this point because we didn't do the calculations, because we don't know the input parameters, but also to calculate and there are a lot of people in the Ministerial Council and around it who are my students and who know how direct and indirect damages in the purchase of the wrong software. I said at the Commission then, if you've got normal software, so you've got one rate prep, and the software allows modular access to more rates, then if that's your problem, I'm taking over a private volunteer commitment with my assistants, to fix this problem for you for nothing. Volunteering, yes. So volunteering, so no charge, free of charge, like humanitarian activity. Yes, because they are certainly humanitarian organisations, they are not free of VAT, because they are freed of philosophical societies because of the error in translation from English into our language. So, in order not to speak in our language, in English, I will speak in our language. I've expressed my willingness to do it as a humanitarian gesture, to fix the software. I'd like to get an answer to that. I didn't get it then. It is also said here that if you go to a differentiated rate, you need more tax officials. We said that then, so if you need more tax officials, what difference does it make? Let's approve a number of tax officials in the first few months, if that'll save what we're proposing. And finally, in an explanation. Look, the reasons, please, says therefore, at this point any change said would question our country's position towards an international environment. Who's going to be our international reputation if we change this? Naturally, this comes from an international environment where I do not repeat a hundred times the familiar thing, which is that only 25 EU countries have the tax rate that we are proposed to have, that 12 countries have two rates, that 11 countries have three rates, etc. I want to explain again to those who accused us of breaking the concept. It's me and we're the ones who suggested, for VAT, we are, but this is not who we are. We're in two feet. We're not for one. The calculations we've made and that we can exhibit this to the extent to which someone is interested, say that this VAT of 1 January, unless we change anything, will lead to an average impact on every citizen of this country 10 marks a month. Five hundred million extra tax collection more than it was this year. The calculations made for the needs of the Council of Ministers, which unfortunately are not fully presented to us. We're also told whether or not we're going to raise 5 hundred million but that's why 50 million people are going to be returned. In other words, every fifth resident of this country will receive 5 marks a month back, if the administration makes it a pass and if it does not charge the arrival of the postman at the door, and at the same time each man, not every fifth, but every one on average, will be taken 10 marks a month. Our proposal, it doesn't solve that problem. Our proposal is just an extra taxation of about 5 hundred million halves per second, which means that by adopting this one here, we haven't solved the key problems of others who are still behind this law. The next thing you know, the important thing is to say right now, and that's that we're told that social programs will be prepared in function, etc. The situation in both entities, in two entities is different, true. In RS there are prepared social programmes in terms of legislation but not 64 there are prepared money. In the Federation, it's a little worse. There's no legislation, so it doesn't matter that there's no money. Also, we could see that on Saturday, the Fiscal Council held in Jahorina did not make the right decision, or that it still stands, 2 hundred million marks in the World Bank and the relevant international financial institutions which can be partly used for social programmes, because the conditions are not met. Also, our calculation we've been doing is that it's no longer about 7 hundred, or another 100,000 of the total of 800,000 people covered by the Council of Ministers' social programme, but it's that it's still to be expected that this kind of blow will bring an additional 700,000 people closer to this category that's being pushed socially. In other words, nearly half of the country's population will have a negative effect because of the introduction of such a VAT. And, finally, not least, I want to say here because of the manipulation carried out here consciously by the Council of Ministers by the chairman of the Council of Ministers and its nearest environment. The last time we suggested zero, for this same category of goods, we were told it was complicated and if God had proposed an exception, they would have thought about it. We've now proposed an exception. We just suggested an exception, the same machine came back up and said if God had suggested zero, we would have adopted it all together. Just so you're not always a god, we're the law that was in front of the Commission, we've proposed that there be an exception, whether it's Ljiljo, and right now, which is not normal, but that we'd more avoid these manipulators and these fog dealers, to drive us around, we've proposed amendments to our own law, that the word exemption be replaced by the word zero. And yet they say you're God's thing. So whatever doctor you suggest to them, they see what they see. They see one step, they see 17%, they see a gang and criminals who bring down that idyll, etc. I even managed to make Mr. Špirić laugh, which, if it wasn't tragic, would be really funny. To cut short my esteemed colleagues, we've been doing research. Research believe it or not, Felić. We weren't listening to anyone. We were asking people directly. We didn't use FOS or OS, we didn't ask people, we didn't use living people on the ground. Hello, what do you think? Our research says, Mr. counterpart, on the question of how VAT will affect price increases. 72.2% of people say they want to affect price increases, 14% say they won't. So 72:14. It's that 72% of people are afraid in this country and 14% of people aren't afraid. I see who's here at 14. When asked how VAT will affect your household's standard of living, 62.4% of people say it will be worse. Fortunately, 30% of people say I have no idea, but I'm scared and 8.3% of people say it will improve my standard of household this VAT. So this Council of Ministers has convinced 8.3% of the country's citizens that they will be better off. We are precisely for these reasons, Mr. Chairman, I want to report to Parliament, we will also provide you with full documentation to the Council of Ministers who needs it. You know that we have organized a broad action in which we have received support for this, a large number of NGOs, associations, individuals. More than 150,000 people across BiH with a last name, the home number signed this. A huge number of these people voted for people who did, against this here's what it is. So these aren't our voters. A lot more people signed this than he voted for us. Here's some of them smiling here, I know they didn't vote for us and they signed it. Here they signed various associations of blind and impaired citizens of civilian war victims, from a municipality like Bugojno signed 65 support for the organization of the family of Shehid and the dead fighters and the Association of the families of the dead and the missing defenders of the homeland war and the Association of Grashan returnees of Serbian nationality. I only took Buggy as an example. This goes beyond national and party borders. Again, let them vote for you again, I have no objection but again, and whoever votes against me, I am for him to be good as a citizen of this country. Just because someone's voting for you doesn't mean I want to do all the worst to him, on the contrary. I know that the largest number of people voted for you, but when you don't want to stand behind them, at least we have to have everyone... according to a little different. Municipal organisations of red crosses and municipal organisations of red crosses, associations of employers' associations, all unions, communities of Islamic, from this and that environment, consumer clubs, various companies that gather people who are disabled on different grounds, which is due to war, which is without war, etc. And what seliti says, they don't talk to you. I owe this because in five or ten years someone can be creative enough to study what we did in 2005. And I would therefore, Mr. Chairman, ask you to decline this commission's report and I would also suggest two conclusions, but regardless of which you refused, you did not refuse. So, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The first conclusion is that the Directorate for indirect taxation is obliged to access the update and development of software system information and technological solutions immediately, as well as accompanying documents that will allow the rapid introduction of differentiated rates if the legislator so requests. So I immediately ask you to update this software so that it can do more, that it will not be again tomorrow, we need time when Parliament tells you that it will be different. That's the first conclusion. Unfortunately, I have to make this conclusion, because this conclusion would be the only one if we were to form a group to investigate crime and corruption about getting it. Under two, it is up to the Council of Ministers to inform Parliament of the current and results of the introduction of the VAT no later than February 2006. So let's immediately make him aware that after the first month and a half, they have to come out with an analysis and the effects and realization of social programs. It doesn't say Sead, including those in the drawer, but all of them. With a full plan of activity by the end of the first half of 2000, including an assessment of the need to change tax rates. So these two conclusions are regardless of whether we introduce one or two rates, to prepare the Tax Administration now, to prepare this software immediately so that when they are given a warrant and to give it to them immediately after a month or two months after the introduction, that they give us an assessment of whether this should change or not, and even if it changes today whether it is. There, Mr. Chairman, it's perfectly natural this time I typed this, there.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20586	The word has the chairman of the House, Mr Nikola Špirić. Let Mr. Duraković Nijaz prepare himself. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20587	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, I think that perhaps the only thing worse than what will happen to us after January is the level of seriousness we are following up on each other's debate, and the level of problems we are going to face with the implementation of the single VAT rate. I appreciate the effort that has been made to ensure contacts with citizens, the examination of public change and, by any chance, more willing to come to an optimal model, this would just have been done by the Council of Ministers defending the proposal that was in this House and I will not, of course, talk about the assistance that the international community and international institutions have provided to build this model. But I'm afraid in January and the next months of the year we're on the threshold, there's no such thing as that show from a better life, we have all of Đole's plans, the works are all there, there's just no money, there's no money. I am afraid, however perhaps the representatives of parliamentary majority parties are looking forward to winning the single rate model, that the international community seems to have come up with only a good model to deal with them. This model applies precisely in the election year and I think that applying the unique rate will be an inevitable huge social dissatisfaction of citizens. This Commission report, I think, and when written, needs to be viewed for archives, says that the system of uniform rates also allows for safer revenues from which funds and socially endangered categories of population will be allocated. So, a system of unique rates to impoverish people to return and show them serious state care afterwards. I think more sense should have been shown, more sensitivity towards the citizens of BiH who went through one disaster of war, through the transition process, and I think if anywhere was to go with a differentiated rate, that it should have been right in BiH. Pure models that want to be implemented in an unnatural environment are not ideal models, I am convinced and I am sure that they will have to move very quickly from a unique rate to a differentiated rate and we will listen here to a story with the same explanations, due to the level of income. So, with the same explanation. And that is why I think that today I see that there is a mood that will be almost the same situation as the previous point, but I want to say that I support, otherwise we as the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats supported the policy of differentiated rates, not because it is proposed by the SDP of BiH, and that any party of the parliamentary majority would do so for the social security of citizens. So we're not burdened with who's from which policy options go beyond what but I can see that there's no mood, so if you want the first explanation for the short time in which you need to implement it is January 1st. It is much less dangerous to extend the application of a single rate than to delay two months, so have a differentiated rate. It's a much higher level of responsibility for citizens. And I know that the international community knows that there's work to do with irresponsible people, that one delay means putting off indefinitely, and that's why it holds a strict deadline on January 1st. But ladies and gentlemen, here is the time and January is close and the next months are close when we will also be able to look at ourselves here in Parliament and then see if whose arguments were stronger and what was the concern for social status and what was not. And he's right, Dr. Lagumdžija, when he says there are different legislations in entities. Where there's a legal arrangement, there's no money, where there's money, if there's money anywhere, there's no law. So here I will plead as in the previous point, when it comes to the Commission's report, and I think we missed the opportunity to show the citizens that we are leading 67 serious concerns when it comes to a sensitive area such as tax policy, and it will be very difficult without clearly defined development policy in this country to solve accumulated problems. But we are not even close to having the Council of Ministers or the Council of Ministers run a clear, development and economic policy that would at least suggest that the dynamic rate of economic and economic growth will take over some of the social problems, because it is almost certain that neither the single rate nor the differentiated rate will be able to solve a set of accumulated problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20588	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mr. Duraković, let Mr. Gligorić be prepared, then Felić, please. I don't have a document on me, I'm looking at it like this, he's got a list there.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20589	What I'm going to say and I'm already thinking the fourth, fifth time I'm speaking on this subject, it really doesn't have anything to do with any party, political, idea, especially national, any other approach, it absolutely doesn't matter. This concerns all citizens of this country who have suffered, as far as the future of this country is concerned, and as far as the fate of at least two thirds of its population is concerned. I know it's not gonna drink water, I hope they're already overruling the decisions that have been made in advance, but I just can't figure out what interest it is, whose interest it is. And I'm just gonna say it again quickly, so I don't bother this rally. We can't be here and we don't have paradigms. They're always waving at us with some kind of Evropa. Okay, we want to go to Europe. Of the 25 EU countries, it is not two and Slovakia's resignation, only Denmark has a unique rate. And no one else. Well, Denmark is one of the richest countries in the world. BiH only quickly, firstly, has the most unemployed proportional population, I speak in Europe. Secondly, it is economically the last place in Europe, if it is not already the last. Third, it has the most disabled, whether wartime or peacetime, sick and endangered health Europe. Fifthly, she has more unfortunately illiterate ones in Europe. Sixth, he's got the biggest death of babies, kids, whatever you want in Europe. Seven, etc. So we're in the back of all these very important parameters. They're all the most vulnerable social categories. Why did I answer today? I got a letter, applications, pay, etc. of three associations. Associations of blind people and those with limited vision, the DES Association of Deaf and the Association of Paraplegics of BiH. We will be the only country in Europe, and probably in the world, and let these present gentlemen deny it or let Hurtić tell me an expert on these things, which will therefore put those blind and half-blind, him and the deaf, etc. in the same order. who have some crafts, they have they work, they have schneiders, they have photoshops, they have presses, they have, they have, in all the systems of Turkey here they were freed from these duties to the state. Not according to this one. Now we're going to add 17% to them. I would ask, once this vote is passed, just to see who has the morals and cheeks to be against this proposal. So let's list it, see if the state fails if we protect at least the blind, half-blind, him, deaf, paraplegic, and the disabled. That's it. We have the most illiterate ones in Europe and we introduce the tax on bupkar both on the reading and on the newspaper and on the book. Well, that's nowhere in the world. The Prvačić is now in September when they signed up, does any of these gentlemen know how much the books cost for the first grade of elementary school? Do you know? 180 marks, no notebooks, no pillows and no bags. Yeah, yeah. And no VAT, 180 marks. That's not what we're gonna do, so good. Then let's count ourselves correctly, let some fat 68 explain why. The minor gains of the state on such items are mundane, absolutely peaceful. At the previous point, we had to tax these luxury goods, etc. So let him who wants to drive an audition in Sarajevo, a Chevy or an angry gencher, pay him half a million marks, and the state therein will earn 450 thousand marks, and do not make profit on the deaf, the blind, and the poor, and the unreserved. That's why this one has to refuse the proposal that these committees make to try to do what can be done. To whom they cast the fog so that the software can't work. Well, I can tell people that they're illiterate. It's open lies and pranks. If they're counting one or a hundred feet, it doesn't matter to the computer. So they won't walk on that Russian plate. So who do they make fools of? Well, it'd be easier on what's called in Russian that wooden one. So we're going to lose our reputation internationally, what black reputation? It's like we've got him and first of all, we're gonna lose him, we can just get him. If one of the most developed Sweden, one Germany, one Britain, one I do not know of any European countries, Austria, Germany etc. Introduce and protect you, what will poor Bosnia do? Who has the cheek to tell us you have to introduce a unique rate? Why? In order for that local bureaucracy to be easier to work out. It's not a more complex business for two or three or a hundred at all. It's all got its own, it's doing the computer, they're not doing the walking. So, to put it short, I stand by this proposal on behalf of, I'm obliged to those people who have come crying, to say this, so that at least we have a hearing for those most vulnerable categories, otherwise we'll come to a pillar of shame. I don't want any part of it. Whoever's against it, let him speak with a nice name and explain why. Why do we not want to be respected by these poor societies, and so the poor are punished by these, disabled on various grounds, and yet this Parliament needs them to take their right to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20590	Thank you. Dr. Živković answered the question, so Mr. Novaković. Replica, please, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20591	In fact, Mr. Duraković spoke very nicely and at one point said poor Bosnia.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20592	Thank you, Dr. Živković, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20593	The esteemed chairman, ladies and gentlemen, has been told many times in this paragraph that the opposition itself and the SNSD have voted many times for legal projects in this house and for the reforms BiH was about to implement on the path to European integration. However, these reforms were largely implemented and they were common and I think it is good for BiH to approach reforms in this way. However, the biggest disagreement on these reforms was seen in the VAT law. It wasn't a dispute for us here. We are, and today we are behind this multiple-footed and the question is why are those who are in most of this House against it. Would this insistence of the international community, I would ask which international communities? We asked the Czech Republic last night, they have more feet. We asked in Holland, there's more feet. Wherever we came, we asked people how you were doing, they all said more feet. Who's behind that international community then? Did those who voted here vote for a single rate, vote for a single rate, really believe they were right. I'd say before 69 they don't know what they're doing, as he says, they don't know what they're doing, Bog forgive them. And I think the international community, I already said that here once, is the only reason it does it, because of us Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it is afraid that BiH cannot fill the budget and that it will not be able to service all debts to the international community. The excuse for the absence of a system and the inability of a higher rate system in Bosnia and Herzegovina does not stand. Just like the fact that the social sector will take over everything that VAT will bring. For the simple reason that we do not have a developed sector in BiH, which we will not develop and, unfortunately, I can say, that there will be consequences of severe and long term, that the poor will certainly be even poorer, sicker, more ill, that they will be more illiterate and that there will be fewer children in this country. Those who are still convinced that they are right when they vote for a single rate, I think they should think hard about leaving at least a small possibility, the way out of what Professor Lagumdžija said, to create a software opportunity for a higher rate, even if the exit when they see that they are wrong, that we can do it at the last minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20594	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković, then Dr Gligorić. Comrade Novaković, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20595	I'm sorry, but I had to wait for Mr. Zorić. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I must say, first of all, in a few words, I'm going to comment a little bit, of course, from my point of view of a particular discussion here and say a very clear view of the SDS Club when it comes to this issue and my own. I tried here to listen to some kind of emotional discussion to see what Mr. Duraković was talking about and where he was in law. So more than half of what he was saying, there's no in this law. So, neither did Mr. Lagumdžija suggest in his law what Mr. Duraković is about, so I guess it's some imaginary law in Mr. Duraković's head that he hasn't told us yet or who he hasn't been able to write on paper. So here we are discussing a concrete law and a concrete Commission report which we can accept and reject, return, etc. But we're talking about him, not what's not in this law and what we'd like. I'd like a lot more than it says in this law. You might be discussing a lot of other things, much easier than it says here, but unfortunately, I only have what it says here. I found out today that this VAT will depend on both our birth and our mortality even though he was gone before this war, so we had in many areas so-called. a white plague, i.e. a lower birth rate than mortality, but it seems now to be solely due to the introduction of a VAT, i.e. the introduction of a VAT rate. The thing here is necessary for me, simple. And there's not much solution. These stories are politics to show this, how they're for social programs and others aren't. How they're one for the good of the citizens and the other for the good of the citizens. Look, please. 70 My Lords, the solution here is not who is for good and who is against good citizens. The solution here is whether or not we are going to introduce a VAT on January 1st and here we are voting whether or not we are going to introduce a VAT on January 1st. It's a very simple question. It's not what you gentlemen are asking here to run politics, it's a practical question. If we have a change of system, will we be able to introduce a VAT from 1.1 if we have a differentiated rate? That's a question for me. If we can't, then it's a simple solution. We have either to make a move decision, or to move the Law on Amendments and Law Supplements, which we will move to 1.7, 31.12.2002, etc. The following year, we have opened up a lot of space for these stories to run politics this fine for a year and to convince citizens that only we, we think for their sake and that everyone else is against their good. The second solution is to say, we stay because no one has proposed amendments to the law, we stay in the application of that law but since 1.1. But then that means we don't have time for this job. So here we are convinced of those who are following this whole process, or who are monitoring the implementation of this process. I must say, gentlemen, you don't mean anything to these citizens because you have proposed this law. And if what Mr Špirić says is true, that this is a good opportunity for the international community to deal with national parties, that is, with the current majority, it is not clear to me that you are defending us so much and that you do not allow this work to be done by the international community. I think it's a good opportunity for you to get to you, too. There are different experiences in this area. Here I am going to read somewhere, forgive me if I was wrong, that Croatia had one foot first, so that it introduced two feet, so now it's going back to one foot. So they're wandering. One foot, two feet, there are advantages and disadvantages of both concepts. That's obvious. Otherwise, there would be no wandering in a country that is on the EU threshold or that has started negotiations here with full membership in the EU. The Serbian Democratic Party club is in principle for a differentiated rate. So, we are at a differentiated rate, but please, will the application of the differentiated rate delay the application of the VAT Act now? If he won't, let's give it here someone says he won't, and we're gonna get into this system right now and get him in by 31.12. Let's say okay, no problem. If that's what it's gonna be, if that's possible. I don't know if it's possible. I need someone professional to say whether or not she is. And if it is not possible, then we are left with only one option to move the law or to work with one step with full respect and I very much appreciate Mr Lagumdžija's very correct proposal, in particular the second conclusion, to immediately begin to analyse the application of this way and to determine what the shortcomings are and ultimately, we will see for ourselves what the shortcomings are. Well, there's nothing new about citizens saying they're going to collect products by increasing their taxes. I guess that, I'm surprised how 14% of them said they wouldn't pick up. It is perfectly normal that by increasing the tax rate where the tax has grown, the product will collect. Well, I guess that's normal. But it's also normal for these shortcomings to be tempered by a social programme that I have to say, there are no levels where it needs to be and which is also a very significant problem. I must say that the opposition gentlemen's proposal means as far as the SDS Club is concerned, and mine is personally acceptable to those provisions that I was talking about, so whether or not we can move the application or not. And on the other hand, I'd appreciate it, I'd really appreciate the opposition 71's concern for the citizens if we had another variant. And that, if it goes first, gentlemen, we have a social programme prepared, we offer it to all and one government in this country, we offer a social programme because we are a serious opposition, we offer serious programs, you only go on these programs to save the people when you already didn't want to listen to us in the first version. That would be an honest attitude towards both citizens and voters. Of course, if I were the opposition, believe me, I'd be even worse than they are. So I'd talk a lot worse than they say and I believe they'd talk a lot worse now than I do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20596	We understand this, just a little bit, the replica of Dr. Živković, and Dr. Duraković, and Dr. Lagumdžija, and then Moranjkić. But I took this very well as an invitation to the parliamentary majority to the Momo unity, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20597	Allow me, this whole speech would be a problem, and I'm just going to take a few accentes here, look around. We are not defending you from the international community, it is simply your conflict and our only problem is that citizens will have the most problems from that conflict, so you don't have to understand that we are defending you from the international community. As for Croatia and all other countries that you state, it is an incomprehensible comparison with the GDP and the number of poor in Croatia and here, to introduce a single or more rate. It's an incomprehensible comparison. And third, when your whole conversation, the speech was that you don't have time and otherwise you're into it. It's more than hypocritical for the simple reason that you've already shown once by voting on VAT what you think of the unique rate and now you're like to change but there's no time and you've reduced your discussion to that, let's say indirect taxation of the Council of Ministers whether time and you're like that. It's hypocritical to this House and also to this people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20598	Thank you, Dr. Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20599	I don't know when I'm saying something, Novaković has some pretty ironic comments. But it's always the wrong conclusion. Here's the last one, he'd talk worse than us. We don't talk bad at all, there's no worse. We speak just wonderfully in the way we should speak to every responsible messenger. And I think it's pretty much not to say a hypocritical tip, whether we're going to improve birth rate or reduce mortality if we apply these rates. I've cited a series of examples to show that we're a country that can't be compared to anyone. Of course, neither with Croatia. No way. Croatia is far from us both economically and in the order of the state etc. I said it's sad that even that can't alarm you that we have the highest infant mortality in Europe. Why? And we have taxes on children's food and children's clothes and shoes, etc. Well, are you going to tell me that it won't affect mortality is that you don't give a child milk, because baby milk, they're lactating, and so they pay 17% more instead of being completely released, if in every normal country in the world. Children's food and children's clothing and shoes, I don't know if there are any European countries that collect taxes here, but here you think the opposite. Does the use of VAT have to be 1.1? Why? When we discussed it 5-6 months ago, it was a realistic assessment of the chairman of the board of directors of the Minstar that it was realistic that we could only expect from June 1st of the year. Isn't that right, Novaković? So why don't we accept that now, we haven't cleared up a few things yet? Well, it's not our head to go on January 1st. We can handle all this stuff. But what is it? Well, some of us deliberately cared to say, but now we don't have any more time, eh, we have to go now. Eh, that's an opportunity what a fellow predecessor told you. You'd be at a different rate, but, well, we don't have any more time. So, you want one shot at two rabbits. You will tell your voters finely that you are for them and their interests, but my Bog, we have not arrived in time, so that you will please her, the loving lamb will suck two mothers. You'll satisfy your employers, and you'll satisfy the voters. But that story was read. We need to say here today, one or more feet, and the rest is, it's easy to add. You're saying there's nothing to it, there's nothing but disabled and endangered. But if you remember one of the previous sessions, Beriz Belkić, on behalf of our club, repeated the request and he was written there, which can be incorporated into this SDP initiative. And I didn't think I was giving the complete amendments and texts now, but here it's just that we decide whether we accept the reports of this committee or not. If we do not accept that report, then there is time and time for things to be properly set up, for us to search it thoroughly again, it is not a sacred or Biblical or currant letter that we cannot change it, and that we finally get to what seems to be the key issue at least in this term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20600	Thank you, Dr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20601	I will try briefly, only Mr. Novaković, offered only once by your statement, and that is by calling to make you social programs that if we were serious, then would have made them, would have given them to you. I'd like to remind you that we've been talking about social programs for a year now, and you're the ones who said in January of this year that you have social programs that are finished in your cages and that you're going to give them away. When you exhibited social programs here a few months ago, we also told you about the execution of such social programs that do not exist. Then we made it clear to you that the social program cannot tell you that the solution is to eat less, to have fewer children, to have the talent to be smaller, it's all written in that social program, that women be the heads of the family in the house, to live in the uninvolved municipalities, it's all in that nonsense of social programs. And now you're asking us to give some new social programs. So if we gave you a hammer, you'd spoil it. So, it's not about you being the man to socialize the program, you'll carry it out. Whatever they give me, you spoil it. And we're just trying to get you to come to your senses in this little amount of time, and in the extreme case, if anyone has, if someone from the Indirect Taxation Authority says, because the director of the Board of Directly Taxed Persistent Repeats, there's no problem. They will implement everything that Parliament has told them, repeatedly in the media. If, if this change requires a VAT extension, somebody tell us what, 15 days, a month, two, three. There's no reason, no technical reason why it's better. And as in the first version, we had to be 1.7. ... this year, so it can be both 1.2 and 2.2. Everything can be when we agree. But the assumption that we'd be putting off is that someone gets out, even if the President of the Council of Ministers and 73 tells us, I have a problem, I can't do this until 1.1, give me two months more and I'll take it. And don't make us bid on deadlines and re-scram you with social programs, because of that, there's nothing for you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20602	I thank you, colleague Novaković, just for the round of these replicas to be over for the previous discussion. So, I'm trying to get out of this, so just a little colleague Moranjkić has Dr Avdić, so you'll get the word, if you agree. And you have a regular discussion, Dr. Gligorić. Are the replicas for the first round, isn't it a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20603	It's not.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20604	Then I apologize to Momčilo Novaković. Was Dr. Avdić a replica? No, then Momčilo Novaković, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20605	I won't replicate again unless they replicate to me. I mean, I can't do that. So it's obvious that he's going on a replica, so I'm replicating, replicating me, and now let me say I won't replicate anymore. Here's what I'm saying. I won't if I don't get replicated. I didn't ask Mr. Lagumdžija to give us a social programme, but to offer a social programme to those you want now through this political story to show that you are benefactors and we are not. So, I thought I still think that you as a serious party who really took all this seriously, you're going to keep working on this so seriously, so say okay, we citizens have a social program for you too. First you have to take these out of power, so we can offer them to you. Here's what we're going to publish in the paper, of course we're going to patent it, these authorities aren't going to take anything from here, because this is just ours, so this is our copyright right here is ours and we're almost done. These guys won't be able to invent anything else from what you're offering. And that's what we're done with. It's usually not as simple as you said, as it's not as simple as I say it is. This thing is obviously a lot more complicated than the way I think and the way you think. I wouldn't really comment on this, the notion of hypocrisy, I wouldn't comment on it if Mr. Živković said, there's really no reason to comment on it, it's just not appropriate to comment on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20606	Thank you. Dr. Lagumdžija again, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20607	Well, sir, I thought three doctors would be enough for you to replicate, and apparently you need a fourth. I'm really giving up every possible replica. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20608	Thank you. Dr. Gligorić, like the fifth.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20609	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Fiscal policy is the most important issue in society. And at the last point, we were already talking about it. Now, since some have spoken and often mentioned their parties, looking at Professor Špirić, and Dr Živković, always full of this SNSD assembly, I can tell you, that the Socialist Party, that now I say something, suggested 8 years ago in its programme, VAT when SNSD and SDP didn't even know it, and SDA and SDS didn't, as our people would say today, figure it out. So, I wanted to say this, that this is not important as much as it is, just tell your story, this has nothing to do with the position or opposition, this story we talked about or here today, I think that if there was any conscience in us as MPs, no matter what political party we belong to, we should accept practically this amendment and the addition of the VAT Act, or throw out the report, or reject the Commission's report. I was on the Commission, and when Mr. Lagumdžija was trying to find one of the solutions, he said he was following the already passed law, so he was talking about a zero rate, so they said he couldn't, but he was talking about it. Well, then they said there's a legal exception. Then he said I'm going with it. He was making an amendment to the amendment. I'm an amendment to myself, but to try to find a solution, so here's a framework and an existing law. And that, here we see it's not working. In Western countries, it is known that some promiscuity for 0.5% of taxes is won by elections in Western countries, and here this difference from 17% to the largest poverty means nothing to you. I think the hungry spring that comes, and in the year of the election, that this is the last game you've played and that Professor Špirić is what he's kind of foretold will really happen with certainty. Such haughtiness, such aggression, such inability to listen to this, let's say when Mr. Lagumdžija speaks, he speaks in his own way, etc. And when Mr. Duraković speaks, he speaks honestly of this, and yet there remains a trail when the two of them join together, I think that, realistically, if no one had ever heard of VAT and the possibility of helping the citizens, he would have come out to help. And I don't know if it can touch you, your consciousness, your morality, not to say, what Dr. Živković said to the hypocrites, that if we remember when we passed this law, of course I didn't support it, because I knew that you would deceive, you said and your mouth was full of social programs. Where's your social program? You have no right to speak of anything, you exercise authority. All you have to do is offer solutions and provide money for something like that. Otherwise, it really is against morale, that you can speak one thing, talk to another tomorrow, and at the same time tell the citizens a story to come out at today's session, some find a new excuse in which you speak, offer us a social program, etc. So I think that the report is unacceptable, that it should be rejected and that this proposed amendment and supplementation of the VAT Act can also be complemented by what Professor Duraković spoke of as blind, deaf, deaf, distrophysors, and that in such a way we may get out of this situation and I call you to morality and to our world as a whole, to reject this report and to allow this amendment and supplementation of the Law to return to the procedure, in order to complement what we have talked about today and thus to show concern for our citizens. It's the only way. And what we're talking about is the program, the inability of the program, so people are making programs. Now it turns out it's a program, because we haven't come to that stage yet that robots rule us, we haven't yet. We're still in control of both robots and computer systems and it's no problem that we program, the software program, are supplementing because I guess the man and brain are controlling the machine. Now it turns out it's impossible to control some monster from a computer, a software program that offers us only that solution, and when you don't have any other valid excuse, you simply say the technique is above man. No, it's not, because the technique was created by man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20610	Thank you. The word is Mr. Hazim Felić. Is it a replica? No, there is no Hazim Felić, Moranjkić, Avdić, Sead, then Potočnik, so is Ivo? And Bešlagić. Here you go, colleague Felić, and he's not on the monitor, so I apologize. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20611	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm listening and I'm thinking about what to start with, so I'd like to start with a regular Bosnian joke joke. Goes Mujo on a bike. Stop him a cop and start writing. You don't have a light, 20 marks. No brakes, 50 marks. You don't have a swamp, 40 marks. And this one's laughing. And in the end, he asks him what you're laughing at. He says, "Huse doesn't even have a bike, you're gonna rip his head off." What do I mean? This law is followed by my law that slows down, pulls the hand brake, I don't know when to let it go, but to get the better of it, a better excuse that it's in teatime. So the teat for me is a methodology that is known in this House. On whose sides it's all intruding, we can all know and accept or not accept but it's present, so here we are in this case. So my law is, therefore, slightly different in terms of normal, it would be crazy to be the same. He's placed in a special
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20612	If I may ask you, colleague Moranjkić, the law will be the point of the agenda,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20613	Listen a little, but if you get it, and you get it, the material that comes from the Management Board for indirect taxation, so I'm just mentioning my law, to make comparison, you'll see that the answers are 100% identical, up to 100% unacceptable and the real reasons are hidden. And I think that's where Mr. Živković stabbed them, and that's where they're from, and not here, that's where they're being passed on to us. I can't accept the reasons, especially the document that was sent to us, and the document, here you see are called decisions. So it's not an opinion, it's a decision. You understand, these are documents with different weights, which means that this parallel for the administration of indirect taxation, each of its opinions in this context, should be written in the form of an application. My dear gentlemen, in the administration of indirect taxation, please, will you have mercy on us suggesting a little bit, and they're making a decision about not accepting an application. Therefore, all that it says is normally accepted by the Commission, it has processed it a little bit, passed it on, etc. And normally, I don't even accept the Commission's explanation for it. In particular, the answers that are ultimately said that only the working committee organised by the administration of indirect taxation will be accepted as relevant and its opinion will be accepted in this context. That's ridiculous. And so, normally, I can't accept voting for this decision by the Commission, I'll vote against and we'll see from now on. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20614	Thank you. Dr. Sead Avdić, he has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20615	I suggest that if it is possible to discuss the unburdened position or opposition, in the extreme case, this is neither a project nor an opposition nor a position. It's an international community project to the greatest extent. No, no, what VAT, VAT law is ahead of us, means no one has the copyright of that law, and in this context, it should be relativeized in terms of defence or attack. Secondly, employers, entrepreneurs, and BiH citizens have already felt the introduction of VAT on their backs. So psychosis, confrontations from this hall and from the Council of Ministers were transferred to the streets, cities across BiH. In this context, entrepreneurs took advantage of this obsession of fear and prices have already started to wild, which means they're true, that's exactly the diagnosis. They are preparing for January and they are already acting on this 17% VAT and a single rate. That we know well. Which means that once again people need to find out, this is a project of the highest degree of temptation, importance, complexity, whatever you want, it's the strongest economic reform, and in this context, really, this country that's in the face of crime, corruption and so on. We know where it is in order in the world, not to speak in the area of Southeast Europe and this part of Europe, then objectively, these projects that are prone to corruption, avoidance, evasion, manipulation, etc. With our State Border Service still not working in full size and capacity, nor is it equipped for such jobs, it is objectively to ask what is optimal for this country? There's one truth to remind people, one to speak. So the unique rate was in all countries when they introduced VAT. That's what to say. That's true. And when they grow up, then they will, and then they're going to introduce a multi-stage rate. That's true. Which means if we don't take care of it, then we can make a really big mistake. It's a big mistake. Are we able to introduce a multi-stage VAT into BiH? That should be evaluated. If we're capable, technically, infrastructureally simple all the way to the computer program, no problem, let's get into it. Are we ready and able to avoid any traps that mean multiple VAT in BiH. Are we ready, are we trained to avoid any traps that hide more VAT rates? So people don't think about it, we're dealing with emotions, etc. I don't think that's good and there's no political profit here or just anything else. Here, this morning, read it, says avaz writes, "Bosnalijek begs this parliament not to go any further and not to release it." The Bosnian prays that we do not release the VAT, that we do not release it. You know who, the only place where there's excuses from the point of view, please,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20616	Let's just listen to Dr. Avdić, please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20617	So you don't understand the technique of introducing VAT people. So, the VAT when you release the VAT company, you don't release the input components that enter the VAT, so when they pay these input components, the VAT comes out significantly higher than when they release it. Please, slowly, slowly, it is still a domestic company and simply destroying the domestic company is not quite that simple, from the aspect of foreign imports into BiH. So I'm just pleading that cold heads are thinking 77 about this. There's no emotion here. There's no emotion here, which means, where are the resistances from the aspect of this proposal? The state didn't make social programs. It was the right decision of this House. We've been looking for social programs, we don't have social programs ahead of us, which means if the state hasn't done social programs, then there's a justification for what's being proposed. There's the argument. The state means, if social programmes can't simply create, allocate resources, legalize as part of the RS did, then we don't have a chance to introduce such a single VAT. So, in this context, there is the possibility that simply knowing well that the state has not qualified, that we do not have social programmes, etc., in this context this proposal has its own justification. But there are also certain disadvantages that point to danger, that it's simply not that simple. So, from this point on, just the press, the books, etc. one unequivocally favoured the aspect of the introduction simply multi-stage, i.e. the release and setting of zero rates for a specific range of products. So, since the state did not really try to prepare a legislative policy, means legislative bases and allocate budget funds in next year's budgets for social contributions from the aspect of VAT implementation, then it is objective to ask the Council of Ministers and the Directorate for Direct Taxation, the possibility of introducing and releasing a product game, whether so, with a zero rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20618	Thank you, Dr. Lagumdžija's replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20619	Mr. Chairman, I owe it to the particular firm that's mentioned, otherwise this is an example that is very often used by these ministers from the Council of Ministers around the Chamber of Chairmans and they, I'm sorry that he's not here that he's prone to this kind of manipulation, so there's no chairman, so we're not going to talk to whoever's manipulating him. So, please, gentlemen of Bosnia and Herzegovina have also addressed us as the legislator of the law because they have been told why you propose an exemption because this exemption will mean that our drugs will be more expensive and that foreign medicines will be cheaper. We said great. First of all, we say this from the point of view of a sick man, not from the point of view of one who produces medicine. But if this guy from the Council of Ministers who pushed you, he wants us well, then we're proposing a zero, not an exception. And that's why the Council of Ministers gentlemen, when they manipulate companies like Bosnalijek, they tell them, those SDP thugs want to turn you black because they're going to exclude you. And we say, well great, we want zero. Because otherwise, the gang is the one who manipulates you from the Council of Ministers, not us. So, colleague Avdić, this is about another example of classical manipulation from the Council of Ministers' kitchen and the chairman above all.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20620	...to hear the speaker, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20621	Apparently, there are, apparently, 4 million people going to fall for what you've offered them since January 1st. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20622	Thank you. Seada Palavrić, Mr. Potočnik and you. I ask the Messengers not to exchange,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20623	Did I get my word?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20624	Yes, it is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20625	I thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20626	You got the word twice.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20627	Yeah, here's the third time I'll talk. So, I'd like to remind some of my colleagues, first of all, that I'm sorry to repeat the VAT debate we had for months before we reached the law. However, those who again hold the same debate today have completely disregarded the fact that the VAT debtor is not a single natural or legal person whose traffic does not exceed 50,000 marks annually. Niko of them have to register for VAT. So, here, that group comes those disabled people of ours who do business. I wish they'd crossed the threshold of 50,000 marks a year, so they could be VAT bonds. So they're safely below. Secondly, we have the sixth EU directive to find me an item that can be released under that directive and in the law that we have adopted has not been declared. Find me an item that can be a zero tax rate under that directive, and that the law we passed is not a zero. I can't believe Mr. Lagumdžija's naiveties and for me, he'll never be a sucker or anyone who doesn't know. So, he's the person who passed the law, so as a poor guy, you know the Council of Ministers is pushing him here, so there, so I'm submitting an amendment to your law. And on the side that legally technically our rules of procedure can't, the problem is, I'm definitely getting the impression now that he doesn't actually know what's better, that he doesn't even know what's behind what solution. What's behind the release, what's behind the zero rate, and what could possibly be some real rate. What is the basic objective of Mr Lagumdžija, in my opinion, is that VAT doesn't start, that the parties who voted for VAT do not vote for a single rate, so he could still call us the protectors of black crime, the protectors of corruption and everything else. And Zlatko can't, he can't, we voted for the one with the cannon. Well, there isn't, the gray economy will go away even if we lose the election. Now, that's what your problem is and what's unacceptable to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20628	When it comes to crime, even bonaro spray doesn't help, please listen to each other. 79
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20629	I'll wait, so that's the problem that's bothering Mr. Lagumdžija and those who are now insisting again on the VAT debate and are doing everything possible to keep the VAT from starting on January 1st this year. That research you've been conducting, and I'd be leading them if I had the media that you have. I wish the media could pass on these sessions, so they could hear you and Professor Kunić and me and Ruža and everyone and get their own opinion. No, unfortunately, Mr. Zlatko Media, most of them represent VAT the way you want them to. They scare people the way you want them to. Our, unfortunately, public change has not been developed, even though so many NGOs and civil society have not been developed, believes in what they are told, it is terrified. You know my friends used to come to me and say, imagine saying, 300 percent will collect new year's notices. It won't think, 300 percent, so here's for sure 17 percent of the total, it's so terrified that it doesn't think for itself anymore. Don't manipulate them. It really is. And don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, Indeed, I'm in your care for the citizens of this country, I don't believe, I don't believe. I believe that you are basically fighting for power and that you will not choose the means to exercise power. This is not Bosnalijek, what you say, your proposals are not good for drugs, nor for bread, nor for food products, nor for food, nor for books. Take an example of Great Britain, and see who kept the money when the books were released or when they were released from VAT, check it out. Mr. Živković mentioned that we asked the Czech parliamentarians,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20630	Can I ask you to discuss the law, not now at every discussion,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20631	About the law, here's the Czech Republic has two feet, trying to get as close as possible to those two feet. Lower raises and lowers. So it's approaching a unique rate. And, Mr. Živković, you've got to tell everyone when you're talking half. We have experience in Montenegro, we have experience in Croatia. To someone around BiH, are we really interested that BiH alone does not have VAT? It really isn't for me. I think it's high time that those billions you used to laugh about, when I referred to the chairman, Špirić to be in the budget and not in someone's pockets like a gray economy. When it comes to the Commission's own report, I disagree with neither the first nor the second assessment. It is a short time to first, not technically trained, for me still the only effective rate for BiH as a cure is one step and today, and tomorrow, as long as I have the citizens' confidence to vote for one step until the system is settled. When the system settles, when some three years go by, when we see how it comes back, how the VAT returns are done and we stand down, then we can go two feet. And that's for sure what we're gonna do. So, the first and second indents are as estimates, for me completely unacceptable, for me is the basic reason for the introduction of VAT is the abolition of the grey economy, corruption and the possibility of investing more from the funds collected in what will benefit the citizens, and also in social programmes that will align what VAT produces. But I say, like last time, we solve the general problem of poverty in BiH, pick up a good VAT and send it to the economy, to loans for small businesses, etc. Thank you very much. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20632	Thank you. You're right. The system can be arranged, but we're on our way to destroy the system. Are they replicas? Dr. Lagumdžija, Dr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20633	I was called by name. I'm really sorry to have to, but this is too big a topic that I'm going to get so tired on it. And, however this ends today, you'll still listen to me if my health serves on the subject of VAT and I won't let you down as long as this doesn't work out, and every time you slip away in your knowledge or ignorance, regardless of how much I know, and quite logically you can't evaluate it, clearly, I won't let you down with this story. You see, you're finally trying to set us up with a few things. First of all, you're trying to accuse us of making sure the VAT doesn't start. It's not our goal to keep the VAT from starting and I repeat it a hundred times. And you're not sure if you'd take as a reason why you're against our proposal, that you have an incompetent administration so it can't start or because one rate is better. Because here, in the Commission's explanation, it is claimed, with your international sponsors, that one rate is better. So if it's better, you're explaining that you're going to change it later. If you claim that one step is good at fighting crime, corruption, and everything you've been telling us about, which you don't say fine, it's better, we'll never give up on this one when we introduce it. So, you guys go down. Because you're incapable of introducing two now, or you think one is better and that's why you're up for one. You can't do both. Hour of this, hour of that.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20634	They're afraid of ending crime and corruption.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20635	Me, if they shut down crime and corruption, they won't have time to hang out. Of course. So, but what I heard from Mrs. Palavrić, you accused the opposition and the media here to lead to chaos in the country due to VAT. I'm telling you, what you just said is something that when you figure out what you said, because really, you're accusing us and accusing the media that carry it, and this research I want you to know, look at the research from the JNDP that your MPs clubs, your leaders get every quarter, from the UN organization JNDP has offered us and offered us to do this research because we weren't sure that their research was correct, and our research on VAT has coincided with a few percent with the JNDP research that you received at your club of MPs. And there you go, look, according to the JNDP research, what people think about how VAT will affect their standard of living and increase. Unfortunately, your story can't help it if it's the media and bad research.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20636	Thank you. Dr Gligorić, then since Gligorić has a replica of your presentation, so please yes, 81
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20637	...because Mrs. Palavrić said we should pick up the VAT first and then we'll see. Does this mean that you are giving up the social programme in Parliament today because at the same time when the law was passed, you said you would insist on the executive authority to adopt a social programme and you would not enter into the application or collection of VAT without the social programme previously adopted. Then you're, I'm glad to see Mr. Džaferović, then you've figured out, that's entity jurisdiction. This is all I'm saying, that you are taking this most important issue in society unrelentingly and irresponsibly. And if we're talking about someone wanting to accuse the opposition, I don't want to be the Lagumdžija leader of the opposition, it's not true, as Adnan Terzić knows to say in public, but it's not Špirić, that if we talk about the social programme, it's good for you, if we talk about the social programme, a German social state in the Constitution wrote that Germany is a social state. And we, when we want out of the opposition to give you a chance to get out of this problem that you've fallen into because of your employers, because of obedience, you know, you're thinking, I can't say that you don't know, but this obedience, half-dominatedness is above all, and now you're in one situation that you don't know where you're going to go. I'm offering you a solution now. Since you haven't, you've recognised the social programme, you have the only exit option, I'm saying, really, that it's good for you, that it's ideal for us to take down this report by the Finance and Budget Commission, and get this amendment and supplement of the VAT Act back into the commission phase, and that's how we get the citizens out, and you get yourself out of trouble. Here, I think it's after you admit that there's nothing out of the social program, but first you raise the money and then we'll give you something later, there'll be a place of 5 marks 7 marks maybe, out of 500 million there won't be 50 but it'll be 70 million. Well, that really isn't worth it anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20638	Thank you. I'd pray we don't use a straight line every time if we don't have to.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20639	No, I think this is it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20640	But I didn't mean to limit the discussion on purpose today,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20641	And to talk, I apologize, Professor Špirić, talk about corruption, commit crime, do nothing in society and talk about how someone has to solve it, so gentlemen, you have mechanisms, you have instruments, you have power. Do your job and stop the gray economy. Why don't you do what you're asking from the opposition? When we come to power, we'll know how to do it. We also have a legal proposal that you refuse. And all by law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20642	Thank you. Is there anyone else to report for, Dr. Živković. I'm sorry, Mr. Potočnik. Here, Dr. Živković, Ljilja Milićević. Wait a minute, Sead's got a replica on the line again. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20643	Sead has a replica for the first time. I didn't mean to mention this Gligorić because I knew it would replicate, and I could tell him that he had no right to talk to me about morality and conscience and that it would be my turn to make a deal on what's on the agenda. I was hoping he'd remember what we said last time we talked about VAT, social programs. I thought he remembered something. Obviously, I was wrong. Unfortunately, I won't keep repeating myself. It's still not December, about how many programs are done, how many are in drawers, how close they are to budgets, how close the laws are finished, we'll see in December, and Mr Lagumdžija, I ask that when he quotes me that he does it correctly. I made myself clear. I voted for one single rate. I am voting today and I would vote again, as long as this is the situation in BiH. The unique rate is the cure for BiH as it is. We've broken out your arguments, you see you've stopped talking all about corruption, about the crime of the gray economy, about unemployment, so it doesn't worry you, it's just important to stop the VAT now. I'm doing everything I can to stop the VAT from stopping the gray economy and corruption. I am for a single stop and in 3 years, I will vote for a differentiated one because it will then be better for BiH when we have an orderly VAT system. I don't know if I should recuperate.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20644	Just a little bit, please. By the time the gray economy stops, it'll be black. Let's just give it a little bit so the replica doesn't go on the line if we can. Can I just call you, here's the wrong quote. Please, MPs, here's Sead's warning them to remember. Here, Ljilja Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20645	I have to, you see, if someone goes with ideas that aren't meaningful, they won't produce an effect. I have to point to that in time, because it looks like everyone here would like to talk nice, keep it recorded, and nobody would do anything. Mr Gligorić suggested that this report be returned to the Commission, to be extended by the Commission. Whether to expand the palette of this, I see, was a negative view of the Commission. The Commission was attended by Minister Marić, attended by Mr Čaušević and other people from the Finance Ministry's administration. What's it got to expand to? New products? Well, if I can't get these through, if we're going to add a palette, then try to get past it. Second, it takes some new time. I mean, speaking of which. I didn't vote for one foot. So, it's not working, but it's pretty clear to me that two years is about introducing a PFV, so I'd really like to have it introduced on July 1st, so we might be thinking today about conditions for a differentiated rate or something. I think if you bring this back to the Commission now, then we'll have this on December 30th, and then they'll tell us, you know, we'll turn that system on the button tomorrow. We don't get anything with that, we just owe one story. I mean, we need to find solutions. I'm completely meaning, the story of countries that have differentiated rates, has its own prehistory. These countries had one, and then they introduced a differentiated or zero, fully aware of it. I say, as a MP, no less responsible to their voters who may have fewer, more than some have had their voters, fully prepared responsibility for them, but I think our budget and those social programs that are presented are based on the simulation and on the budget of this value added to 83, I say, which I was not satisfied with, with one rate. But when he was born, rock. So 150 million who are planning to collect surpluses, of which part is planned to finance this social programme that Professor Lagumdžija considers to be solid, that the Federation has not yet finished. So that's the condition of it. Any changes, make sure you break the whole of this planned social programme that needs to be implemented. And I say, completely open, supportively, it's very important that if everything is put into function of starting value added tax, as the gentleman says, uh, who told Sead Palavrić, there's no more talking about the gray economy. I don't care if it stops talking, it can't be a gray economy. So, the story's gonna pass, but it can't be done. So, it's starting out like this one foot, so what they're imagining starts. Then let's go for a walk and change what can be changed.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20646	Wait a minute. Please, I have to say that we have six more points before a definitive break, the possibility of working another hour and a half tomorrow, because the clubs are announcing a break at that time. So, if we don't go from replica to replica, people already have their own attitude, and so I would pray if we didn't have to continue replicating, that those who are registered for discussion, give them a final chance. My kolega Potočnik, then Mr. Bešlagić, then Mr. Mišić, and I no longer have any more applications for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20647	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get rid of the political part in this House and look at things as they are. In order for social protection to exist, there must be a strong state. If there was a strong state, there must be a strong economy. We now have neither strong social protection nor a strong state nor a strong economy. We have 3.2 billion GDP marks and we have a strong crime that is expressed as 6 billion so-called. The gray economy. We have to go somewhere and we have to go as soon as possible. And we have to start cleaning up that garden or garden or garden. And all we can do is start with the state or the state. But we also have to tell the people that surely 10% will live worse than it is now, but that's also the price of introducing order into this country. Without order, there'll be nothing. So I support the introduction of a law that we have already adopted and we must not let go of our hands, because we will only prolong the agony in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20648	Thank you, Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20649	I'll try to be very brief. The report said, saying, that almost all processes related to the start of financial collection of indirect taxes since 1.1.2006, and then it was said, the process of reporting taxpayers and editing software was completed. We've had three points today that we haven't done. This is the proposal for a law on the mandatory collection of indirect taxes in BiH, a bill on the procedure of unsettled taxation and a proposal for a law on the Administration for indirect taxation. I would, too, but it wasn't adopted. It's a principle, first reading, but when the amendments come. The point is next. I said last time, 84 once taken, until help comes to those who need help, if it goes through more inputs, I think it's going to be a tremor for what's called social programs. I asked if there was a legitimate return to social users and those from whom this VAT was taken. Know what I got the answer, it won't do the Administration for indirect taxation, it'll do the ministries here in. I want to tell you, we're talking about our two-foot bill here now, here if we close our eyes today and there are no laws, I'm telling you that 1.1.2006, because of the non-legislative jobs that need to be done by the Directorate for indirect taxation, taxes will be introduced but theirs, I'd say repercussion will be longer than it would be expected in the next six months. So we didn't get anything that we, be careful, this parliament adopted more rates, so at the request of the House of Peoples and under the pressure of the international community, one step was adopted. That means, we adopted, this parliament adopted, you're telling us today that we want to tear down the VAT. The VAT can't be destroyed, it's going to be 1.1, but I'm asking the question here, is it possible once again to introduce what we suggested, so more rates? And the second question, here and without these more rates, can we get an answer from the Directorate for indirect taxation, from the Council of Ministers, whether the legislation needed to implement this VAT will be done by 1.1.2006? I don't think so. I'm deeply convinced, and I'm telling you, it's more important to put this request here today, to get an answer and to run a test that would show the efficiency of the VAT. I think the Directorate for indirect taxation is treating both the BiH House and the people of BiH incorrectly, so whether it's one or more rates. I think that's the question this parliament needs to ask.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20650	Thank you. And finally, sir, there is no one here, Mišić, thank you ladies and gentlemen, we have exhausted the debate on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Revision with the report of the Finance and Budget Commission. We now, as at the previous point, approach the Commission's report's statement. If the report is accepted by the law has fallen, if refused, then we can go with the conclusions. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So for 15, versus 12, abstention 1. He doesn't have most of the Federation. There is a majority from Republika Srpska. It remains the same principle as the previous point. We don't have a third member of the College. So you're asking for the vote to happen again. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now. You asked it to happen again, here I am. So for 17, versus 13, 3 abstentions. I find this report accepted. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on additional value with the Commission's report on finance and the budget has failed, and therefore all other conclusions seem immaterial, because this was the point of the agenda. 85 Yes, it is, but they were bound by the point is therefore, it has not received the support of Parliament and there is no need to plead now, because this is the point of the agenda. As I understand it, the Rules of Procedure, and please, I want to do all the business even though I share your vision.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20652	First of all, Mr. Špirić, there is always a category of working conclusions that have always been adopted in every law. So these two conclusions are concrete.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20653	In connection with the bill's proposal because the agenda point is, and since the commission's report has been rejected, the law has fallen. We can't make any conclusions about the law that fell.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20654	Wait a minute, you guys, when you passed the VAT Act, let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20655	Please. Yeah, yeah, well, that's why I think they're, uh, I'm sharing.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20656	Wait a minute, me, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20657	You don't understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20658	Right, right. But it doesn't matter. Wait a minute. The conclusions, just a little bit, Mr. Špirić, don't think, there's no reason it's too big a question to run over this. When we passed the law, or when you passed the law, when we all adopted this law together, it was also a conclusion, a working conclusion to create social programs, so you didn't mind that the adoption of the law was the conclusion of social programs. I have now proposed two working conclusions independently of the fate of this law. I repeat, for those who don't remember at least one
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20659	It's in writing, Dr. I'll put Lagudmija to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20660	I gave them to you 86.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20661	It is only clear that I do not violate the Rules of Procedure, in that sense, my view of the conclusions is known. So, I invite you to make your point. Do you have any written form? Here's what I'm reading. Conclusion number one. - He's in charge and we'll approach the vote immediately, so please. So, the board is in charge of, we will vote separately on the conclusions. It is the responsibility of the Directorate for indirect taxation to immediately access the update of the work of the STS system ICT solutions and the accompanying documentation to enable the rapid introduction of the differentiated rate, if requested by the legislator. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - For 17, against 8.5 abstentions. It has a majority and an entity majority. The first conclusion was adopted. We're going to another conclusion. – It is up to the BiH Council of Ministers to inform Parliament by February 2006 at the latest of the ongoing and....Introduction of VAT, as well as the effects and implementation of social programmes with a full activity plan by the end of the first half of 2006, including an assessment of the need to change tax rates. Prepare to vote. Vote now. You'll get everything, of course, but these conclusions have been taken out. For 30, v. 1, abstention. Another conclusion has been accepted. Now I can wave the conclusions that they're thinking the same thing Zlatko Lagumdžija thinks, but what do we do now? We're going to the 18th point of the agenda. Ad.18. The proposal for a law on the foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina's geomatics with a report by the Constitutional and Legal Commission (Proposer of MP Mirsad Ćeman) is in parliamentary procedure since 14 April 2005. At the 56th session held on 4 May 2005, the motion for a procedure under Article 104 was considered. The request has not been adopted, so it is considered in the ordinary procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission, which delivered the report on 28 September 2005, is responsible. You saw that the Commission did not accept the principles of the proposed law. So in line with the House's conclusion, we're considering a report from the committee in charge. Who's calling for a hearing? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Eighty-seven, stand by. So it's the same principle. If the report is accepted, the Law falls, if it refuses, it gets a new time. So get ready to vote. Vote now. For 17, versus 14, abstention 1. We don't have most of the Federation. It's just that we've got to get along like the last dots. Thank you and move on to the 19th point of the agenda, Ad.19. Proposal for a law on the holidays of Bosnia and Herzegovina with a report by the Constitutional and Legal Commission (proposed by the MPs Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, Jozo Križanović and Selim Bešlagić) The draft law on the holidays of Parliament was delivered on 25 February 2005. The Constitutional and Legal Commission has established that there is a valid constitutional and legal basis for the adoption of laws. Opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission was delivered on 17 March 2005. As competent to consider this law, the College has appointed a Constitutional and Legal Commission. On 8 June 2005, the Constitutional and Legal Commission submitted a report on the draft law on holidays in which it did not accept the principles of the bill. At the 59th session of 29 June 2005, the House did not adopt a report by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and the draft law was returned to the Commission for reviewing and delivering a new report. A new report was submitted by the Constitutional and Legal Commission on 28 September 2005. The draft holiday law on the Constitutional and Legal Commission has not again received majority support. You're all these acts I mentioned I got. So we have a situation to decide again on the committee's report. I'm opening a debate on the report. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Novaković, then Altić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20662	Well, we voted backwards. [[Common discussion]] We're looking for a re-election.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20664	Please have a nice done point. Come on. You can't get the new point back, we've moved on to another point. Please, I'm in charge.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20665	It was confusing. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20666	Please, so allow me to lead correctly and believe in it indirectly. Don't take me back to number three. Be careful in the vote. Don't come home after the vote. Here you go, colleague Novaković. I understand what you're saying. I know these clubs are gonna make you ugly, but what can I do?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20667	Mr. Chairman, there is one difference between the previous law and this law. In fact, this report once considered the report on this law had once considered the House of Representatives and returned it to the Commission. And the Commission again sat down and the law did not win again, i.e. the principles of the law did not get a majority. How many times can this situation be repeated? I don't think there have been any conditions for this law or this report to be held at the session, because once it was in session, returned to the Komsiji, again in principle, the Commission did not accept and once again the Commission did not accept
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20668	We have to finish it like all the laws here in a way
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20669	we cannot put the Commission's report, which is negative, back in the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20670	Parliament decides, makes a definitive decision, that's what we've given the interpretation, I know this is the second time, I know everything. A colleague called Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20671	Here we are asking to vote because we would like to address this issue before joining the EU.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20672	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the hearing, ladies and gentlemen. Prepare to vote. So we're making a statement about the report. Vote now. Okay, you've got soufflés now so we don't make a mistake like last time. So for 13, versus 17, abstention 1. So we don't have, it doesn't have a simple majority, it doesn't have an entity majority. I find that the draft law on the holidays of BiH has not been adopted, and thus the law has fallen. 89 [[Common discussion]] Come back, just come back. Okay, okay, okay. We have to end this entity now. So for that reason, he's right. So we have a majority, but we don't have an entity majority. And now we're going.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20674	How's it going?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20675	It's negative here.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20676	Negative, but to vote on the Commission's report as it is. If the report is accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20677	So the Commission's report fell.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20678	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20679	Well. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20680	Well, that's third, that's conclusion number three.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20681	No, no. Is the Commission's report an entity vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20682	Yeah, yeah. He doesn't have a simple majority. So there's been a report.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20683	The report has fallen and is returning to the Commission to make a new report. Okay, okay. Please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20684	So when we return the report to the Commission, then we should give the Commission some direction in which the Commission should operate. Here I can now say that the Commission will again submit the same report. We had a power-to-voting relationship and we're going to be revolving on this issue. 90 Be careful, if the MPs who voted against the report should say here what are the new elements on which the Commission should take care when voting.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20685	Yes, Momo can repeat that possibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20686	I understand you, Mr. Chairman, and I understand the way we vote, but I don't understand how long we'll go like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20687	Until we get to the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20688	I think it's wrong for me, don't get me wrong, but I think you're misreading the Rules of Procedure when it comes to this manner of pleading on the Commission's report. That's what I've been saying since day one and today I'm saying
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20689	I'm not interpreting it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20690	that you are misreading the Rules of Procedure, because they do not have any meaning, in particular there is no Constitutional and Legal Commission if it cannot say that something has no constitutional legal basis. It's no big deal. But I'm very sorry. That's my thinking.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20691	It's possible to interpret it that way, and here I am begging the Secretary of the House to interpret it. So, I'm not going to break the Rules of Procedure, I'm not going to, and I understand your suggestion that this can go on indefinitely and will go on forever, obviously. Because if he can't go twice, three times, he can go ten times. What can I do now? I can't stop. I don't have the option of a business. I'm asking Branko to read the provisions, and then dr. It's a Kunić. I'm sorry, I didn't mean to. I get it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20692	I can only say that Members' opinions are realistic, but that is not what the Rules of Procedure say and that we must apply the Rules of Procedure. I don't have any restrictive provisions that would put me in a position to suggest that the procedure be suspended because it's a negative report the second time. I'm just reminding you that you know really in line with the 59th session when it was negative again report we've come to the conclusion that we didn't accept the report and we've returned the commission to reconsider. 91 The Commission has submitted a new report which is once again negative, and we do not have an explicit provision that would say if the report is again negative, but then we go to the next provision – if it does not accept the report of the competent commission, which is the case now, the House will ask the competent commission to draw up a new report based on the guidelines set by the House and within the deadline set by the House. So we're in a position to apply this point 3 because we haven't accepted the report, so we're looking for a new report in accordance with the guidelines set by the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20693	Thank you, Branka. Dr. Crescent. Kunić has, you asked for a word. Can we, then, this is the vote we're done with. Dr. Crescent. Did you ask for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20694	Well, there's nothing, I don't want to affect the course of things, but I was going to say this, that we need to be a little pragmatic about this. I would remind you that we had the same thing at the customs tariff where I was and how I warned you about the fact that it wasn't the same thing at the session again, etc. etc. So the Rules of Procedure are empty, in this respect there are shortcomings and in the Rules of Procedure it is necessary to install that same thing, as other parliaments have, cannot go again for at least three to six months.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20695	Thank you. I think we should do business, you're right, we'll fix it, but let's go. Dr. Crescent. Živković. Not to open the debate, the point is over by the act of voting.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20696	I'm not even gonna open a debate, I'm just trying to help. So we've been bringing him around for a long time. He's at an agreement in the House of Peoples. Let us, in one conclusion, say that this should be resolved and that the rules of procedure are over in 10 days. That would solve it and get us out of the situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20697	It'll be over. He just has everything he needs. Thank you very much. Moving to agenda 20, Ad.20. The motion for a decision on the organisation of the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina The proposal for a decision to organise the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina was set at a meeting of the colleges held on 9 May 2005. 92 On 6 October 2005, we received from the competent commissions both home reports on the decision. You saw in the report that nine amendments to the motion for a decision were adopted. Momčilo Novaković filed an amendment yesterday that wants to defend at the plenary stage. However, the amendment is untimely, so I am informed by the Secretariat. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Hazim Felić, then Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20698	I'll do it for a while. Indeed, in Amendment VIII, point 2, there is a technical error. It is not the chosen one that should be appointed, Branko, the appointed official, not the chosen one. There's a mistake here in the VIII amendment. Me, me in the report. And I'm just asking that this mistake be corrected and recorded so that it doesn't sneak up on the text. Well, I'm also a member of the commission, and I know how we adopted it, and I think they know that it's not named, it's elected.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20699	I'm just asking you to level that down a little bit. Here's that.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20700	What amendment is that?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20701	The eighth amendment, under 2nd of this - assistant not selected, but appointed.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20702	Is they appointed.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20703	And that's the point, it's not a formality just so you know.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20704	Well, it is the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20705	I mean, if someone made a mistake, they wouldn't make it by accident. So I'm free to say it doesn't have to happen to us, because there's a big difference between the appointed and the chosen one. That's what big political stories were about.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20706	Huge.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20707	It's a huge difference. Is anyone there? Mr. Novaković asked for a word. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20708	I must say that, indeed, several times in the Commission's session, we had this law and that the largest number of my remarks was respected, means during the debate on this law, and that practically the remark I made in the amendments, the amendment, and I accept that it is untimely since it is not 48 hours before the beginning of the session. So it's not, by the way, my point is that I still feel that the introduction of an assistant secretary into, with the secretary of the Joint Service, the secretary of the House of Representatives and the secretary of the House of Nations has no excuse, therefore, to all three positions. I'm convinced that, therefore, of course we can't suggest, conclude and anything related to another home, but I'm convinced that it's not the same amount of business that all three of these secretaries are doing and that simply this way, the introduction of an assistant to all three, means that all three secretaries are bringing us to have someone else who, I can't tell me, is not going to contribute, something a man will do, but it seems to me that he's going to spend more time working for the secretary than he's really going to have to have to do. But of course I also have to say that regardless, it's not so much a reason that I won't vote for a decision means the way it is. So, with full respect for the fact that the largest number of my objections to the amendment is respected during the debate on this decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20709	Thank you. gospodin Špirić, the chairman of the dom, called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20710	Ladies and gentlemen, I will, of course, express my views personally on what counterpart Novaković was talking about. I think we legal solutions in these acts of ours must not adapt to individuals. And I think that touching, I know why I'm talking, we've led the controversy whether the Home Secretary is elected representatives or state officials. And since we are in the coming year at the end of the term, so this one, the question arises whether the next set will come to confirm that people have been re-elected, or whether they will be assistants to the chosen one. Let's open a story once. But I am so that we appreciate the work of our colleagues. There are seats in the Parliamentary Assembly, they may be elected but they don't have to. If we adapt our acts every time, no matter what I appreciate all my colleagues, I won't vote for this decision. I won't do it for that reason, because I recognize that's the goal and I recognize this minor mistake that wasn't an accident. And if anyone thinks in this parliamentary assembly that that's how he works, then that's not good. So I'm going to vote against this decision just for that reason, and I think that we are, that you remember what I was saying when Vedran went to the Electoral Commission, that it's our obligation to talk about a colleague who did so. That's what I have to do with all the colleagues I work with. And that's why I'm voting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20711	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for word? Mr. Novaković has a need to say something more. Here you go. 94
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20712	...and take care of what Mr. Špirić was talking about, I'd like a break of 10 minutes, please a break of 10 minutes to explain just a little bit to bring these texts into line, given these terms. So I really need the initial text to agree with what we've got here, and I think maybe even 5 minutes is enough.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20713	Here's a five-minute break at the SDS Club's request. As far as I can tell, gentlemen, let's continue our work, please let the MPs take their seats. [[PAUZA]] The break, we have the quorum, asked for a colleague, Novaković. I ask the MPs from the hall to come in. Here's a colleague of Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20714	I must say, the Honorable Chairman, that the fact that there is therefore between the adopted text, therefore the adopted amendment of Mr. Felić and the text of the law, there is a difference in the fact that there is a difference in the fact that there is an assistant of the elected official here, and in the text of the law is an assistant of the appointed official or official. sobzir that the Commission has adopted the amendment in this text, whether this is a technical error or not, of course, a technical error, we can individually assess it, but it is a joint commission and we cannot now this call here from the Administrative Commission of the House of Representatives and that we cannot change without members of the House of Peoples, or the Commission of Finance, as it is called, the Administrative Commission. And that's why it would be good if this meant today that we weren't deciding on this, but that once again, the committee would sit down, and that this problem would be cleared up, and that it would then go to the next session and adopt.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20715	I thank my colleague Novaković. Who's next to the word? Dr. Crescent. It's a Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20716	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I was going to say that the following, please, I have to say when I read the decision, and the State Service Act, then I saw that the secretaries had no civil servant status, which is not common. It is therefore common for secretaries to have civil servant status for professionalisation, professional relations, depolitisation of state services, especially administrations, etc. Therefore, I do not know that we are giving an initiative to amend the law to install in the law that the secretaries are professionals, subject to the electoral procedure, as all 95 civil servants are subject to, so where the dominant role is played by the State Service Agency, so a competition is being called, etc. And in that case we wouldn't have these things. In these situations, therefore, when the secretary depends on Parliament every time, it is, in fact, a political person. He's involved in politics and politics can affect him more. I think it would be a happier solution to approach the amendments to the law in that sense. I was really surprised when I saw the secretaries weren't, they didn't have a civil servant. As a rule, the secretaries have the status of state official in the rank of assistant minister. In the rank of assistant minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20717	I thank you for your help. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20718	It was delivered in the commission's report.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20719	It's about the motion for a decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20720	And the component of the decision is the commission's report. I've seen this written by an assistant elected official, I agree, but believe me, I didn't think for a moment that this applies to the assistant elected official. I know it's not, it's impossible. I'm on my own, you did fix the appointed by saying it's a printing error, because it means the appointed one. And so on this background I propose that today, and here I see members of the commission, the president, here's a member of the commission intervened, I suggest we adopt this in the way I've corrected and as Mr. Felić intervened, and that I assume that in the same way in the House of Peoples it will be, and if it isn't then as it normally does, that the Joint Commission agrees and it's over. So I suggest we not take off, but adopt this today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20721	Here you go, pal Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20722	Well, as a member of the Commission, I accept a proposal like this, but when the committee sits down. So we can't do that at home session right now. So we have a commission to sit down and the commission will figure out everything you say and define. So we can do that, but it's got to be a commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20723	This proposal, in order not to create a bigger problem, I think it's wise today that we don't plead that the committee sits down again, this removes the lack and we plead. We'll have a session in 10 days. 96
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20724	It's just this lack.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20725	Yes, this lack. Yeah. Thank you. Do we have support for this decision? Thank you. Moving to the 21st point of the agenda, Ad.21. The proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Decision on the establishment of a complex of BiH institutions' buildings and land on their status, conditions and method of application of the Administrative Commission of the House of Representatives and the Commission for Financial and Administrative Affairs at the joint session held on 14 September 2005, set out a proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Decision on the establishment of a complex of BiH institutions' buildings and land on their status, conditions and method of use. You're the one who got the call. You've seen what changes are proposed. I'm opening a debate. Is there anyone to report for the hearing? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, prepare to vote. Vote now. So, I agree that, unanimously, with 29 votes in favour, we have adopted a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the establishment of a complex of buildings and land for the accommodation of BiH institutions, their status, conditions and method of use. We're going to agenda 22, that's Add 22. The approval of the ratification agreement under a,b,c,d,e,f, as read when the agenda is adopted, there is no need to read and propose them, unless there is no objection that we adopt them in the package. I'm opening a debate. Who's calling for a hearing? Nobody's answering. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to take one vote to say that we agree to ratify the agreement from a) to f) in the agenda. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, for 30, against 1, abstentioned no one. I agree that we have ratified the Agreement from a) to f) from today's agenda. And that made it a condition to move to the 23rd agenda, that's Ad.23. The appointment of three members of the Joint Commission in order to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Public TV Service It is necessary to appoint three MPs from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission to bring the same text of the Public TV Service Law 97 BiH into line. In fact, it is certain that this law will be adopted in a different text in the House of Nations compared to the one we adopted. In this sense, we propose that members be Mr. Izet Hadžić, Dr. Petar Kunić and whom are they proposing in the order of the Croatian people? Mr. Vinko Zorić. Prepare to vote. Note, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20726	I'm speaking specifically now, so for an MP from the order of the Serbian people. I don't mind Mr. Kunić, but it makes sense, and I think it should be the principle that someone in that commission should be from the Transport and Communications Commission. So, in this case, either Mr. Živković or Mr. Mišić, here's to say, I'm a third and I think that should be a principle.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20727	Here, Mr. Mišić, if Dr. Kunić agrees, Mr. Mišić. Prepare to vote, so Felić, no Izet Hadžić, Mr Zorić and Mr Mišić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, for 29 against nobody, abstention 2. So I find that we have appointed three members to the Joint Commission in order to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Public TV Service. We're going to the 24th agenda, and that's the last item of the agenda. Ad.24. Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Intelligence and Security Agency activities for the period from 1.6 to 31.12.2005, pv. material. This is classified material, we're obliged to say that, Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20728	Mr. Chairman, since you've delivered to us in the agenda that this is a matter, that it's classified material, we need to make it clear before we can begin this matter whether it's a press conference or not. In fact, to be very clear right now, there are a few more previous questions that we need to resolve. It is totally unacceptable that one such material, as we have obtained, is called classified material. That's one thing. Another thing, to discuss such material, which is unacceptable from my point of view, without public presence is totally unacceptable. Let me draw your attention, Mr. Chairman, that, besides everything else, it's completely unserious that we talk about such material in a situation where we talk about VAT, so there's no one here. Nobody sits here except 98 of us. In my opinion, this is and I'm setting up a matter, sir, instead of so much secret service that they're looking at us from the screen, probably. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20729	Just a moment, please, to listen, everything we're going to solve is no problem at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20730	Mr. Chairman, first of all, we do not want to take part in a farce debate this secret about this material because it cannot be debated about this material, for example, without the public being aware that this material is made completely contrary to the conclusions of this Parliament when it comes to the Commission's report on the coup, which had very clear conclusions from which they did not exist for this Intelligence Service and that this Intelligence Service does not cut even 0% of this Parliament and its, in other words, suggest that you take this off the agenda today, that the next session starts with this, that the next session be opened and that the one responsible to tell us about this.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20731	Wait a minute, please. We'll make a deal. I agree that it must be on behalf of this agenda item, chairing the Council of Ministers because he is legally in charge of this area, but I ask Branko to explain why he is in the proposal. We need to be clear to the end, this, therefore, the material with the label confidential and what our acts are according to that material. He can ask for whatever he wants, I can't break the procedure while I'm in charge. I'm asking Branko to explain. So, I agree to take it off the agenda, to be at the next session, to have the chairman of the Council of Ministers present, but then to see if the point will be closed to the public or not, to solve this dilemma, because it didn't occur to me to direct it closed to the public because it's my whim, Nikola Špirić, and that someone else wants to open up to the public. I'm asking Branko to give an explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20732	I'd just like this, dear MPs, just a few words. We're according to Article 10. Rules of Procedure delivered to you the material, the Intelligence and Security Agency's activity report for the period 1.6 to 31.12 which when it came to us had a mark of confidentiality. According to Article 10, MPs are obliged to keep their official secret and so on, delivered by an authorised promoter. We can only take this secret mark off materials that are being prepared in the House. This material that came from the Chair's office and we can't take down the secret mark. According to Article 75. The Rules of Procedure shall be excluded in cases where such a problem is considered. According to Article 10. The law on the BiH Security Intelligence Agency, chairing the Council of Ministers, is required to submit an annual report on the Agency's activities to the Presidency and to the Parliamentary 99 Assembly. The material you got and it has a real mark on the material.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20733	So just a little please. So, do you agree to remove this item of the agenda today under the obligation that the chairman of the next session attends but remains a code of secrecy for the reason for which the Secretary of the House warns. kolega Živković, let's not open the debate now.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20734	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, very often in this country is abused by what is called a secret and to say something that is assigned to the state, very often we see that an ambulance, an ambulance, holds a rotation when it doesn't need to, so they joke, then people won't let them go. I also get the impression that the militia sometimes does it very often, just to make fun of it, to get all that stuff serious. As it was put here, the secret was official, and we all saw in the material that it wasn't exactly an official secret. I suggest that next time, if we're going to discuss this item on the agenda, the Council of Ministers will take down the designation of official secrecy and then we'll discuss it with them and with the representatives. So, this home can vote to propose to the vijeće of the Minsitar to consider whether it's an official secret or not, and then to deliver theirs,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20735	Please, just a minute, let us conduct the session in accordance with the acts. The Council of Ministers will be, we will not work for this today, because there is a business possibility, there is no presence of a chairman of the Council of Ministers who has a legal obligation. As an organ, they decide whether the material is confidential or not. We don't need to go in, let us protect Parliament's integrity. I'm always open to the public. So, today we don't open a story at all about the agenda point because there's no reporter, but I wanted to explain, that we don't stay out of the public eye, for the sake of Dr Lagjmdžija's question, why it's strictly pom. We didn't give it strictly, nor do we legally have the opportunity to take it down strictly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20736	Mr. Chairman, I'm really here. We're all in a hurry for different reasons.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20737	I'm in no hurry.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20738	Well, let's just say I'm in a hurry, 'cause I really think this is pointless right now the more we do. But, let me, be careful the material is classified but he's not so trusted that I haven't read it, I mean this, when I got it as confidential, I read it like you, Hazime, right? And you don't have to be an expert like Hazim and an inexperience like me to conclude that there's nothing classified here. So there's nothing classified here. There's nothing the public shouldn't know. Nothing. Please, 100.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20739	Please, come on, Dr. Lagumdžija understand for himself. There will be a agenda point
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20740	and Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman, there is a mass of what needs to be discussed here and must not be confidential to the public of BiH. And if someone thinks there's something that's so confidential here, then let's get rid of it as confidential and discuss what this area is about, it can't be classified, because we're going to get back into a situation of abuse of intelligence that's already come to our heads once. And I'm, if this is allowed to go under classifiedly, materials like this, we don't want to participate in it, and then we're legally going to break the myth of one of these bandit services, if he puts it, this is a bandit service unless he wants to be open to us. You heard me well.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-25-0.u20741	Please, please keep the words, I beg you, please just a little bit, so we can ask when the Council of Minister Adnan Terzić comes out to look, so the authority that put the confidential document can take down the degree of confidentiality. We can look for that. Don't open the debate today. I just want us to take it off, so no one can think of it to say it's closed to the public because it's his whim. And I'm public and transparent, and maybe I'd be completely different from the bench talking, but I'm obliged to respect the act. So, please, when there's a session, there's going to be a part of the agenda, it's going to be the chairman, we can say, here's the Council of Ministers, take off the mark of confidentiality. If they take it off, it'll be open, if they don't take it off, it'll be closed to the public. Thank you very much. That's why we've exhausted today's agenda. I'll see you at the next session that'll be quick. The session was completed at 4:45 p.m.
