ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-18-0.u4909	...and guests, representatives of public information funds, all present I welcome and open the 48th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 12 delegates present at the session. Of which 4 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people, 3 from the Serb people. Mr. Đoko Pajić, Mr. Goran Milojević and Mr. Hasan Čengić justified their absence since they were officially prevented from attending this session. For the 48th session, I propose the next agenda. The decision to accept the Agreement on the restructuring of police structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina is therefore one item on the agenda. Any objections to the agenda? Addition, alteration of the agenda? There isn't. Thank you. So the agenda was adopted and if we are therefore not voting on the agenda, he is who he is. Ad.1. Decision on the adoption of the Agreement on the restructuring of police structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina on the basis of Article 70(2) of Article 70(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of Republika Srpska, page 174 and Article 178. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, "The Official Messenger of Republika Srpska No. 22/05", and following a review of the proposal for an agreement on the restructuring of police structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the National Assembly of Republika Srpska held on 5 October 2005 on the adoption of the Agreement on the restructuring of police structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Bosnia and Herzegovina's Council of Ministers for the 4th extraordinary session held on 7 October 2005 discussed and adopted the Police Structure Reconstruction Agreement and delivered the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for adoption. The Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives adopted a Decision on the adoption of an agreement on the restructuring of police structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina on 14 October 2005. 2 We have given you the notice of the House of Representatives on the benches. So you have it and I'm opening a debate on the first item of the agenda. Is anyone picking up? Mr. Limov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-18-0.u4910	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow envoys, esteemed members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the international community and public information funds, all hailing you, I would like to take this opportunity to take advantage of and very briefly refer to the Agreement on the restructuring of police structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I must say that I expected that someone in the sense of introduction would address us to the members of the House of People, but since you immediately opened the debate, here I am going to say briefly what I think of this. By the way, I think it is a very strange form of the proposed document that should be a framework for future reform of police structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, the question is who is agreeing here in particular, bearing in mind the fact that, as published in our public, the author of this agreement is President of Republika Srpska Mr Čavić. But, well, we have what we have and far from thinking that what we're expected to do today should be called into question. On the contrary, I expect that we will be unanimous in support of this document that has been offered to us. However, I think it deserves the content of this agreement a brief review. I particularly appreciate that it is good that the European Commission has adopted this agreement as a formal fulfilment of its conditions of those so-called. the minimum conditions under which all the police relevance to legislation and budget will be at national level, there will be no involvement of police in the operational work of police and functional police areas of the region or areas as you wish will be determined on the basis of technical police criteria. To me personally and only this formulation is enough to give my voice without remorse to support this document, but I do want to say that, while it is good, the European Commission has accepted this and that this is a sufficient minimum condition for starting Stabilisation and Association negotiations. I appreciate that it will be a motive for all of us to support this document. However, I believe that there are some questions that need to be pointed out on this occasion, and the more the different approach to this agreement has already been expressed in our public opinion, and about when we look back a little on the reaction after the signing of the Dayton Agreement, there have been very similar intensities, in other words everyone has experienced it in their own way and in the level of some particular interests somewhat different and interpreted it. The first thing I think is that this agreement may be a problem is a formulation that the operational command of the police remains at local level. We of course know that through the report so-called. Markins's commission envisions that the local commissioner certainly manages police work in an operational sense, but that, but police regions, the future police region is an integral part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's single structure, and in that sense other institutions and other things that may be a problem in terms of implementation and the agreement itself is that the application of the agreement must be in line with the BiH Constitution and entity constitutions. So we know that everything that we agree on is a competent structure in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina that it is possible for the Constitution to interpret, treat, supplement and change in the way it suits everyone and I personally appreciate that this formulation is made, and that, at some point, based on an assessment of certain political structures, this could be a difficult element, or 3 limiting the factor in terms of withdrawing appropriate moves in terms of dynamics and if you want the content of future reform itself. The third thing I think may also be whether it's the subject of tactile conduct of what means the essence of the agreement. The point is therefore police reform in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is that the agreement will be implemented in five years. I personally appreciate that the formulation of these five years is certainly a cover for those who will take care of how time is being made in making the appropriate moves. These three elements can be a source of controversy, and I am now deliberately not going to trouble this broadly so that on the basis of the arguments I would not change my mind, or that I would not be tempted to do otherwise than I said at the beginning, which I do not want to question in terms of my positive relationship with these. I want to say, however, that there has already been a certain interpretation in the sense that this is a win and one, etc. We are all winners here, all political options and the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or we are all losers. So that's how I see it and really political points that try to get from individuals a different approach and interpretation of the provisions of this agreement are really inappropriate at this point. Of course, I have to say when it comes to this directorate, it's this fifth point that I want to look at very briefly, it's not the exclusiveity of this agreement. The directorate is an idea and envisaged otherwise in a report by a well-known commission called the Markins Commission, but it has mostly been participated by professional people and they have said about what it is and the tasks of this directorate itself. I personally think that this directive will be in a very complex situation and I do not envy at all those who will be its members and people who will bear all this burden that objectively politicians in our country were unable to bear in the way that the dynamics of overall activity were in line with our ambitions whether we open the negotiations process as soon as possible and that the faster we go towards European and Euro-Atlantic integrations. So this directorate is going to get a hot potato and we're going to see what it actually means and in the end, I personally don't think it was good to question the very Martin's plan, to call it that, given through that report because we're practically from the new year, 31.12 last year, the High Representative is this, published a practical conclusion of the work of this OHR Commission and we've practically had these days, I'd say waste of time, and if we keep in mind the fact that this directive is going to be another one, as scheduled by the end of next year, to prepare this all in a paper sense, so I think we could go and work a lot faster. We even had alternative solutions there, etc. But here's what the politicians obviously failed this plan. You can put this under quotes, reject, in any case, if politicians should have the last word on this, then I'm also asking the point of purpose of the commission's work because no matter who paid for it, this is certainly a lot and a material cost, not to mention those other elements. In any case, although the agreement in question is missing. There are still a whole series of other issues that could be asked here, I will definitely support this one, because it opens negotiations between BiH and the EU and I will support it guided primarily by better logic than nothing, or a better sparrow in hand than a pigeon on a branch. So imagine just what situation we would be in, and my colleague Šiljegović and I were in Brussels on the day before the decision was made, and we realized that without this, there was no hope for a certain time, and fortunately, here was hope. He needs to use this. I expect that we in the House of Peoples, as the final group of people who take a stand on this, will certainly support this agreement. Thank you very much. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-18-0.u4911	I owe you an apology. Here at our session, Minister Čolak is present, and I thought that this document was adopted by this one, and suggested that after discussions and discussions in which there will be some dilemmas, some ambiguity that after that, we allow the Minister to try to clarify the dilemmas and clarify things, so I didn't want to bother him so much, to expose him to this, to expose and observe to a document that someone else has been doing, but in any case, the minister will help us to remove some dilemmas or some dilemmas or a series of dilemmas that may appear to some MPs about this document, so I thought that a little minister would listen to our opinions, our discussions, and then try to remove some quality of these dilemmas, before we decide to vote on the document, etc. So, this is how my vision was running this session. Is Mr. Šiljegović reporting? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-18-0.u4912	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be able to make a contribution as colleague of Limov, who is an acquaintance of the area, former minister. My contribution will be very modest, given that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the mentioned document and adopted a Decision on the adoption of the Agreement. Given that the agreement has passed the procedure in Parliament in both homes, the Federation of BiH Parliament, since the same agreement was delivered by the BiH Council of Ministers, passed the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliament, the Club of Serb delegates, which is now numbered, will support decision-making and support the Agreement. And, perhaps, in the end, a replica of a colleague of Limov who mentioned this, some birds here because of the danger of bird fever, I ask you not to tie it to this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-18-0.u4913	Thank you, Mr. Šiljegović. Is anyone else picking up? You are my most likable person in this House, I apologize. Here you go, Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-18-0.u4914	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I won't have much either. However, it is one act or event that we have been waiting for for quite a long time, which was probably the most closely monitored process in this country for the last year, so it seems to me not bad enough to say a few words and because it happened within a year and also because these last days after accepting and signing this agreement, or after it came to some ratification in parliaments, from entity to this state parliament. First of all, because this, unlike what is the media reality in BiH, which is at one point on one side of triphalism, on the other hand, I would say that we 5 have no right here to feel the winners or losers, that we are actually sharing a unique destiny and that fate is the need to adopt one agreement that will turn into a law and that will ensure normally, that I do not tell the European functioning of the police in BiH and this country not only formally and in a dubious way, that this agreement is not only because of this formality and we do not accept and we are not talking about it today, but essentially this country through the complete police reform to make the European country, the country of security above all its citizens. That's why I'm saying, we're just thinking mature, that absolutely normal without emotion, but only normally for the purpose of observing this law, the course of its, forgive this agreement, the course of its implementation, and finally, the coming to what we're looking at today, and we're considering this agreement on the restructuring of police structures. What is evident here and what deserves this first place is the principles of this agreement. They're unmistakable. So it's up to us to satisfy the essence of every principle first. And now, a few words about what's left of European standards, we don't need to interpret them. I don't think we had to name them. They're self-conceived. If we're going to build a police force that's not part of the European general security standard, then we don't need that kind of reform, or we don't need that kind of police. What is our reality is the Constitution of BiH and stop entities, or the process of harmonisation, or the process of implementation in accordance with constitutional provisions, although I see it a little differently, or perhaps even try to see it because if it is a reform that goes towards what is called the jurisdiction of the state, then here BiH seems to me to be the entity that needs to be primarily mentioned. What I think is illogical, but that's what's there and that's what it is, but I have to mention it. The problem of opening the question, when it comes to reforming something, then it makes sense for me to open up those issues that I very often do not want to open up, and especially when it comes to one system because the police wanted me to or not, the system of repression, but the system of repression that in its second phase passes into the justice system and into the justice system. And, on that basis, I don't really understand why this isn't about one process. But it stays there as it's written. What I really do in this agreement, so it doesn't go into my head somehow, is a five-year period of implementation. I don't know, it seems to me like it's been way too long before something good happened to us. And I think the police reform process is ultimately a globally good process. And I don't see why it's been five years. Why 5 years for what we can do, for example. In a year. Or if we can't do it in a year, we can do it in a year and a half. But here's what I'm underlining, and this is what I'm talking about, just these five years because I'm scared of knowing us, knowing our ability to get away from our own obligations so that we don't have a lot of divorces over the past five years and that again the police would not be one of the conditions of final and definitive accession or the implementation of this country into the community of European countries and European peoples. And that's why I'm potentialing what's called the five-year process of implementing this agreement. Secondly, just because of those five years, just because of those five years, I see here the key role of Parliament and I think deeply and honestly think that this parallel has something to do for a lot less than 5 years. To follow, this process, to speed up this process, to give it one new quality, to actually be fully in the course of the overall events in this process. It's only logical if we're thinking about this police restructuring directorate, if it's going to be a six-right, professional and operational body, then I believe this process will end before we name it here with this agreement. Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-18-0.u4915	Thank you, Mr. Zno. Are there any other people who are reporting for discussion? Minister, do you need to say a few sentences or perhaps some of these little dilemmas we've heard? If there's any need, if there isn't, there isn't. Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. So, after these discussions, I put the decision to accept the agreement on the restructuring of police structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina on the vote. Please vote now. So we have the results of the vote as unanimous and this Decision on the adoption of the Agreement on the restructuring of police structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina is considered adopted. Here you go, Mr. Spajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-18-0.u4916	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, all present I welcome, the Croatian Club of Representatives has attached these conclusions you received on the table, and here I would read them, so in accordance with Article 131. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I submit a proposal for conclusions. The Bible’s Viewpoint, 1 / 1 The home of the people of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH insists that the county cantonal flies and the Federal MUP continue to share the fate of the police reform with the RS MUP regarding status and jurisdiction and 2. The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Requests from the Council of Ministers of BiH to regularly inform this House about the ongoing reform of police forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-18-0.u4917	This first conclusion was adopted by the House of Representatives, the House of Peoples pardons the Federation Parliament and this second one is now presented by Mr Spajić. Are there any objections to these proposals and should we vote on the conclusions? Mr. brkati, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-18-0.u4918	I thank you, I welcome you all. But here we got on the desks and conclusions of the Federal Parliament and I would like to join this conclusion of the Federal Parliament with these suggestions from Mr Spajić and he would rephrase a little bit. The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH calls on EU representatives from the United States to monitor and ensure the implementation of this agreement in accordance with the European Commission's... way. 7 I think this conclusion should go with these two and then we should adopt it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-18-0.u4919	First of all, Anto, are you agreeing as a proponent of this conclusion that I didn't hear this,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-18-0.u4920	I agree with this being the third conclusion, which Mr. brkati is this, the third point,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-18-0.u4921	It's the third conclusion, all right. Ante, there's one remark in this second conclusion, this second paragraph down here is the last word to say structure, not strength. Here's Mr. Jukić to this political structure. Here, therefore, we will now declare the first conclusion of Mr. Ante Spajić's correction to this, supplemented by what he said, proposed by Mr. Brka. I'm putting in a proposal for a conclusion, and you're going to come to the conclusion. So now we're going to vote on conclusion number 1 of Ante Spajić, corrected for this conclusion added by Mr. Brka. Is that how it's gonna Spajić? One, two and three. This is Burke's third conclusion. So here's the first one you have suggestions for Mr. Spajić's conclusion. Here's the vote on the first conclusion, yes. Well, here's what you wanted us to vote for. Please,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-18-0.u4922	There are three points first, second, third. If so, if not, then let's vote on each point one conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-18-0.u4923	I think this is one conclusion that has three points, three points, and I suggest we vote that way, please. So, these two attitudes that Mr. Spajić expressed and what Mr. Brka said. Who's in favour of voting for that conclusion? Vote now. So a total of nine for, no problem and three abstentions. So the conclusion passed in the first round, no entity majority, goes into agreement. There's no college, there's going to be a college next time, so we'll agree on that until Goran gets here. This is where we ended this session. I congratulate you dear colleagues on your adopted decision. Thank you and have a safe trip. The session was completed at 12:25 p.m.
