ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5038	Dear delegates, honored guests, representatives of public information funds, I welcome you all and open the 51st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 11 delegates present at the session. Of which 4 from the Bosniak people, 4 from the Croatian people and 3 from the Serb people. They are absent from Mr Zrno, Milojević, Šiljegović, Neimarlija, and who will be late Neimarlija will join later. For the 51st session, I propose the next agenda; Agenda 1. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions, 2. A record of the 49th and 50th meetings of the House of Peoples, 3rd. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law amending the Law on Public Procurement by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 4. Proposal for a law on indirect taxation, first reading, 5. Proposal for a law on forced collection of indirect taxes in BiH, also first reading, 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Taxes, first reading, 7. A Proposal for a Law on Preventing and Preventing the Abuse of Intoxication Drugs, First Reading, 8 / 8 Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Human Rights of BiH, First Reading, 9. Proposal for a law on customs violations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading, 10. Proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 11. Proposal for a Decision on the organisation of the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 12. Giving consent to ratification of the Air Transport Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, 13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the ratification of their own nationals and nationals of third countries, 14. Giving consent to the ratification of the Supplemental Credit Treaty between the European Community, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 2 15. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the takeover of the role of co-founder for the Institute for Missing Persons of Bosnia and Herzegovina between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Commission for Missing Persons, 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of air services between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, 17. Giving consent to the Administrative Agreement implementing the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia on Social Insurance, 18. Giving consent to the Note of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovenia on the conditions of permanent transfer of part of the Republic of Slovenia's Detective in favour of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the European Convention on Laundering, Searching, Suspension and Subsistence of revenue obtained by criminal acts, 20. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia on Social Insurance and 21. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovenia on legal assistance in civil and criminal matters. Before I apologize, before we open a discussion on the agenda, I invite you to take a minute of silence or learning fatihea, each in our own way, to honor our colleague from the House of Representatives, Dr Abdulah Nakaš, who died. Thank you. Let him have ricket and glory, thank you. I'd like to announce to you that there will be a memorial tomorrow in this room at 11:00 p.m. for the death of our colleague, Dr. Abdulah Nakaš. I would also like to inform you that 15 to 11 please, make 15 to 1 pardon, take a break for some colleagues to go to the memorial of Mr. Nakaš to the State Hospital and ask for your understanding. Thank you. So here's what I wanted to announce. We'll have this one, so break at 15 to 1. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. The reason for this is whether, for the word on the agenda, Mr Hasan Čengić appears for the word. Mr. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5039	I am taking the opportunity to welcome the chairman and chairmanship of the House, distinguished fellow members of the House, Mrs Minister and other representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community, the media and all others present. I support the draft agenda, except for point 22, as formally indicated, and now after the change in reading, it's 21. So here is the final point, giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovenia on legal assistance in civil and criminal matters. I would like to dispute and remind my colleagues in the House that this point has been the subject of the Commission's debate on foreign and trade policy and on the basis of the Commission's unique position, we have agreed to refer the issue to the Federation of BiH and RS legal chambers, and to hear their opinion on certain views on this contract. Their answer was received and the Commission decided to invite representatives of the bar at the next House session and to discuss this matter with them and to try to define our position on the basis of their views and suggestions. There is a real possibility that this contract will not receive the consent of the Commission at the next session and that we should ask for further harmonisation of this issue at the competent levels between the two countries. 3 In this regard, I propose that this item be removed from the agenda for today, and secondly, we propose to the College that this item is not planned for the agenda until until the Commission has completed the debate, the report on this contract is forwarded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5040	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Please, colleagues, I want to say that we at the College this morning had this, same little debate, and since this material that you got was you, the agenda, published, we asked, we asked, we thought it should still be at the House to vote, so we at the College, I could not read it, but we thought the Commission would finish our work so we wanted to be, we wanted to be one, we wanted to be at a pace, we had one dynamic, we didn't have any delays, and that's why this was on the agenda. I am of the opinion that we should accept the Commission's position and that is why I would like to, perhaps, say immediately about Mr Čengić's proposal, to take this item off the agenda today and listen to the Commission's proposal that says, that we are not putting everything on the agenda, since here it will be how complicated we hear, until the Commission is definitely finished working on and that a definitive position on this issue is definitely being put on the agenda. I would ask you to make a statement about Mr. Čengić's proposal. Who's in favour of Mr. Čengić's proposal? Vote now. What now? Excuse me, I was wrong. Vote now, thank you. I got the wrong button. A total of 11. So we unanimously accepted Mr. Čengić's proposal. Here comes Mr. Genjac's word. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5041	Dear Presidency, distinguished colleagues, I propose that today's session agenda be complemented by a point called the Report on Harmonising the text of the Law on Public TV Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You know that we have adopted the texts of this law on both homes in different texts, that a Commission on Harmonisation has been formed, that the Commission has completed its work on 17.11. and delivered the Report to the College on Harmonisation. There are really no technical, business, or procedural obstacles not to end this point today, especially since it is one of the points and conditions related to the deadlines for giving consent to the start of the Stabilisation and Association negotiations that we have already received, I would say conditionally. In this way we could apply this question today and then at the next session of the House of Representatives, the report is also being considered and that it finally ends. If we leave today's House of Nations session, then only at the next session, which is supposed to be in the middle or in the last third of December, which I think is a great shame, and by adopting it, then, at today's session of this report, we could do one useful thing and there's no reason or obstacle to not doing so. Thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5042	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Is anyone still picking up the word? Mr. Jukić,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5043	I'll do it very briefly. So, we had on the College Report that came relatively on time, but I suggest we not put this on the agenda for the reasons we've been working so far, and that's from the beginning of our mandate one of our conclusions about our way of working, that in principle we consider all the materials and since they pass the House of Representatives. In order to be consistent, I think it's blinking to do the same way, respecting, of course, the fact that this is one of the conditions that the deadlines are some sort of thing, but nothing important can change, and we're not going to do anything particularly good or quality because here's this law at the stage where it is. The Commission has done its part of the work and I think that the House of Representatives will have its session in the first half or somewhere in the middle of this month and then there will be other conditions, that we are considering this at our session even though I say nothing in particular changes that but here, I would like to respect our conclusion and be consistent with that conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5044	Thank you, we also heard Mr. Jukić's remarks, that is, Mr. Yukic's discussion. Reporting for the word Mr. Hasan Čengić,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5045	Therefore, respecting an unwritten rule that we have adopted here at the beginning and which I think is essentially good, that we are going by the principle that the first House of Representatives is considering a particular question, and then when we get the position of the House of Representatives, we are considering it here at this home. We generally respected that, I think there were a few exceptions, but that rule has really been respected so far. However, in this case, I'd like to say the following. Given that the Text Consensus Commission has done its job, the report has prepared, that means that it adopted it unanimously. So there's nothing more to be done about this law than formal confirmation of this adopted report at both homes. In my opinion, at this point, it's really pointless to have a debate about whether we're going 7 days before or the House of Representatives before us for 7 days to confirm that. On the other hand, I would remind all my colleagues, and ask that we take care of it when we make a statement on this matter. And at the ceremony of the official announcement of the start of the negotiations, chairing the European Union, the British ambassador and at the same time Mr Ren's enlargement minister, both reiterated very precisely that one of the important conditions for further talks is the issue of passing this set of laws, including the Service Act. I think that if we got a good gesture, that we were officially declared to be starting negotiations with the EU on the last Friday, then there's no reason why we shouldn't return to one normal gesture, which is to put this point on the agenda today, to make a statement about it, to give formal consent, and thus to confirm that we understood the EU's message, that we are 5 of them ready to start talks with us, receive it in a positive way and answer it in a way that we are going to go ahead and do our part of the job as the People's House. House of Representatives, I'm sure they'll do the same at the first next session. And for that reason, I would ask my colleagues, especially from the Croatian Representatives' Club, to keep this in mind and still get into it today and to decide this in a positive way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5046	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Doctor, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5047	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we have also advocated and advocated the principle that the House of Peoples does not go into its decisions before the House of Representatives, but when it comes to a concrete decision, I do not think it could be subject to this principle because the report is over, the reconciliation is concluded and now unbound and one and the other House are making a decision. We can accept the decision or reject it and the House of Representatives can accept the decision or reject it, so that the decision has nothing to do with the decision of the House of Representatives and by respecting all that Mr. Čengić has said, I think there is no reason not to end it today at this session of the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5048	Thank you very much. Do we have any further discussions? We don't. No Niko's answering for a word about the agenda. Thank you very much. I am putting to the vote Mr Halid Genjac's proposal to be included in the agenda of a point to be called the Joint Commission Report of both homes on the effort, to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Public TV Service of BiH. Who is it to put this point on the agenda, or to vote on this proposal? Vote now. Thank you very much. Here's the thing, six MPs voted against three and abstention two. So the agenda point has been adopted, that this, this goes on, the adopted agenda point means. And I'd like to ask that we put it under point 3 immediately. Here, thank you very much. Thank you very much. So, any other suggestions on the agenda? Now please, given that there have been changes and additions to the agenda, I suggest we vote on this adopted agenda. Please vote now. Therefore, the agenda in the proposed text was adopted. The vote was eight, against the vote one, and the abstention was two. Thank you. 6 Moving to the first item of the agenda, Ad.1. Answers to delegate questions and delegate questions Answers to the delegate's question Osman Brka, I urge Mr. Brk to declare whether he is satisfied with the answer. Here you go, Mr. Brk.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5049	I'm sorry, but I didn't get it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5050	I have here in the record that you have received an answer to the delegate's question, since the previous days the Dom was basically empty, it's possible you haven't been able to find it in the post office.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5051	This question has long been answered by me, this question.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5052	Here, believe me, 16.11. The answer came.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5053	It's back again. This is what I got an answer to earlier. Well, I did, okay, I know.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5054	So, you're satisfied. I'm sorry, then it's an administrative error, or a mistake called the Council of Ministers, which has twice answered the same delegate question. So, you're well satisfied with that answer. Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you, if there are any new delegate questions? Mr. Limov, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5055	Thank you very much, dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, esteemed representatives of the Council of Ministers and other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, distinguished ladies and gentlemen representatives of the international community and public information funds, I welcome you all together and want to use this opportunity to ask two questions, of course to the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The first question, when and how will the representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly be formally familiar with the content of the Strategy for Negotiations with the European Commission on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU? And, second question, what is the specific role of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and its working bodies in the process of negotiating a Stabilisation and Association Agreement? Thank you very much. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5056	Thank you, Mr. Limov. I would ask Mr. Limov, we have some problems formulating these issues, while taking them off, I would ask that future delegates formulate their issue in writing, give it in writing, and give it to a desk at the Secretariat here, so that we don't have little problems. Because we've got a little bit of a problem with those definitions, about that whole thing. Any more delegate questions? As far as I can tell, he's gone. Thank you very much. We move on to the second item of the agenda, and it's called Ad2. A record from 49th and 50th session of the House of the Peoples Does anyone get a word? Do we have any objections to these records? Niko one's answering for a word. I'm putting it to a vote. First record from the 49th session. Please vote now. As far as I can tell, the record was unanimously adopted. So the record was unanimously adopted, 10 is for and no one against, no one abstention. Okay, thank you very much. I'd like to make a statement on the minutes of the 50th session. Who's for the record? Do you vote now? So the minutes at the 50th session were unanimously adopted. Please, please, on this third item, which we have now included in the agenda, the Joint Commission Report of both homes on the effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Public TV Bosnia and Herzegovina. You've all got it on the bench and I'm asking you this is a matter of committee not having a discussion, I'm asking you to vote. Who accepts the commission report? Vote now. Thank you very much. So a total of 7, versus 2, abstention 2. The law and the report have been passed and thus is believed to have been adopted by the Law on Public TV BiH. Thank you very much. This is taken off the agenda. The fourth item of the agenda is Add.4. The request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the draft law amending the Public Procurement Act by an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of People So there is a first debate whether the law will be considered by a brief procedure. The House of Representatives passed the bill by proposing that the draft law be considered in a shortened manner. 8 Is Anybody Answering? Here you go. So, Mr. Halida, here you go. I'm not, I'm sorry. Let's hear Halid then, if it's something you can do right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5057	We have seen that it is not about some major amendments to the law, but it is about a very significant need of law and the Bosniak Club supports that these, these amendments to the law on public procurement are carried out by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5058	Thank you very much. I get a colleague here is the finance minister and I don't know if and thank her for being there. This is such a joyous moment to be visited by ministers, and do we need to hear an explanation about these public procurements? Please. There's no need. Minister, thank you. So is there any further objections and discussion? Thank you very much. There isn't. Who is it that the Law is being considered in accordance with Article 99? The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Please vote now. So we unanimously adopted that this law is being considered in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. We move to the fourth item of the agenda, i.e. the fifth point of the agenda Ad.5. The bill on the indirect taxation procedure, the first reading of whether, as a report from the competent commission, you received the law as well as the report from the competent commission. The Commission adopted 15 amendments that have become an integral part of the text of the law. The House of Representatives passed the law in the first and second readings with 15 amendments. This is the first reading per article 90. There is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. I'm here, too, and we have our esteemed minister. I don't know, I think you would, so you wouldn't expose her to the effort, if you shouldn't. I think the minister still needs to come out and explain this to us despite the fact that I'd be happy to spare her.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5059	I'm glad to see you here today and I hope, you know actually better than me, since you've been doing a lot more work than I have on these laws lately, it's come down to these 15 amendments and they're actually in line with who they are. If the House of Representatives has brought down these same amendments, it would be good for you to bring the same, and if it isn't, then we'll move the period about the agreements, and then the law that we need very much this law, the Law on Forced Charges, the Customs Infractions Act, should actually start with the New Year, because this administration is working without those three and without the Law on 9 administration as the fourth law. So the law of those laws for the establishment of an indirect taxation administration should really see that there are no further differences with the other home, because it will only prolong the agony. These are the laws three of which need to function management and the deadline was I think nine months ago to bring them in. So here's the spirit, and the commission has worked very hard, and I know exactly about it, so I shouldn't be having any big debates today, and especially some big misunderstandings because it's high time to adopt this. Here's New Year's Eve, I guess we'll have a budget by then.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5060	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. We heard the minister's statement. Please, anyone answer for a word. Rose! Mrs. Ruža Stojanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5061	I welcome Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, respected guests, I only as chairman of the Finance Commission, and to say that this is actually agreed on by the Commission and that I have taken over the amendments, all 15 amendments that were in the House of Representatives and in order to achieve a uniform text in order to go faster. So there's absolutely no dispute in this case. The Commission unanimously supported the principles of the law and supported the law as a whole with the amendments given.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5062	Thank you very much. I knew when ladies lead, they take matters into their own hands to go everything, I'm so glad. So, Mr. Đoko, don't spoil this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5063	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, I would like to take the opportunity of Mrs Ljerka Marić, Minister, just to ask one question, one clarification, or clarification. We have information, i.e. we read in the means of informing Ms. Minister of Finance of Republika Srpska, Mrs. Cenićka is going public these days with the view that the Directorate for indirect taxation is overvoted by representatives of the order of the Serbian people at the Management Board of indirect taxation, by making a decision on freezing the decision on coefficients on how to calculate the coefficients, i.e. the payment to entities from a single account. I think you know what it's all about and that it's about 28 million marks, instead of the Republika Srpska budget being channeled into the Federation budget. 10 Mrs. Cenić comes out two three times in public at press conferences. I've been thinking about asking her something concrete these days, but I haven't been able to make contact with him, so before we go to the vote on this, I'd like to hear your point of view and your opinion about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5064	Thank you. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5065	I have a very clear view of it. So this administration was created the way it was created and the possibility of entity ministers being able to react to anything good or bad was left. It means they're making something better, or they're making something right. The theme of this particular issue of redistributing funds from a single account in a way that works on these coefficients is a story that's almost two years old and what's best to do is this – that we write from here a request to the Administration that they really, whether all together to the board of directors written answers, individually what's going on here. As long as we have very much, this is said to be the diametrically opposite attitude between the two entities in which one says that it's not right to apply those coefficients for alignment, etc., and the other one says that it's quite right what's happening again. So someone has to be an arbiter. As a state, we can't be an arbiter in that area. We are all equal and what would be best done would be best done to look at these reports made by the administration and reports made by the macro-economic planning unit and I don't know what it's called on the board of directors and, in fact, that based on the data that exists, it's a quality conclusion. I personally think that these coefficients, like anything else that has been agreed in one part, are also a matter of consensus on something, we took as the basis of that in 2004, in half a year before and we agreed which types of income would enter into the basis for distribution and in what way and for a long time it worked the way it worked. There have already been estimates of the redistribution of one entity in favour of another, etc. And closer. At the beginning of this year, we had one problem regarding the payment of income a little specific, so we agreed to overcome it in a way that we could agree on a consensus, etc. So there were several situations, but they were overcome by agreement and consensus. On this one, I'd like to say that there must be a consensus for decisions like this. So there's no way anyone in the introduction of rates, new rates, different rates, customs tariffs can be overvoted. But as long as we don't agree on a new distribution, so this old one is agreed on by consensus, they have the signatures of prime minister, minister at the time, until we agree on a way to do what we're all going to do together, we can't take that as a basis for one party complaining, as a relevant basis. But it would be very good to tell you, I know a lot better than you say, so I have a basis to say that first and first there was a redistribution of income and a huge amount. So we need to consider one thing at a time and see how one hastily revealed that someone has been misaligning something from something that exists. So there's two sides, one says one, the other says the other says the other. As a state, we're not an Arbitrarian. We need to get quality analysis, papers and on that basis decide, not based on the coercion of one side that says now you've taken something from us, give us something. 11 I am standing on the stand that we should seek a written answer from them. That would be, that would be one answer to those questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5066	Thank you very much. We heard Mrs. Minister's explanation. Đoko Pajić, I think this argument gives some opportunity to vote. I think this one does.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5067	Well, I am, in any case, well I have now heard from Madam Minister one explanation there from the Minister's lady, Minister of Republika Srpska, another explanation. All right, I'll have Mr. Pedi Eždaun's request, which, at this point, can be adjudicated on that matter. Well, of course we'll wait for his opinion, and then we'll see how and what else.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5068	Thank you, Đoko. I think now, later, if there's no one to answer for a word further on this matter, I think we could put this bill to a vote. So the proposal, uh, in the first reading. Proposal for a law on indirect taxation, that is, in the first reading. Who's in? Please vote now. Thank you very much. I, here says Mr Filipović, accidentally missed the vote and that's for, so we'll think it's unanimous. Well adopted unanimously, no matter what the gentleman's voice is. I, please colleagues, here are some technical problems we haven't voted on, also to inform you that Mr. Neimarlija has arrived. There's 12 of us now. Thank you. Here, please vote now. All of you who are late have the right to follow up. jelde, it's a democracy. I don't want to talk about it, it's not a part of the agenda, but I'm in. So we have, unanimously we've adopted that the bill on the indirect taxation procedure goes in, we adopt in the first reading. I suggest that at today's session we have a discussion and a second reading, so who is it that we should discuss in a second reading of this law? Vote now. So we unanimously adopted a discussion in the second reading in this law in the second reading. There is a debate on amendments and debates on the law. Since there have been no new amendments, I think we can vote on the law and put the law on indirect taxation. 12 Please vote now. So the law was unanimously passed in the same text as the House of Representatives. Thank you very much. We move to the sixth item of the agenda called Ad.6. Proposal for a law on forced collection of indirect taxes in Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading is also our colleague, our minister, if there is a need to hear it. What are the problems? Here says Mr. Čengić, and I agree that we're all clear and there's no need. Thank you, Minister, for being here. You've received a report from the committee responsible. The Commission adopted 6 amendments that have become an integral part of the text. The House of Representatives passed the law in the first and second readings with six amendments. This is the first reading, so there is a debate on the necessity of the principles on which the law is based. Who's answering for a word? As far as I can tell, no one's answering. Please vote now to pass the law in the first reading if it is now. Thank you. We unanimously adopted that this law in the first reading. I suggest that today's session be debated in a second reading. Are there any debaters? There isn't. Thank you very much. I suggest we vote on the law and in the second reading. Please, excuse me. I suggest we go to the debate and in the second reading. Thank you very much. Vote now. We also unanimously adopted that we were going to discuss it in another reading. Thank you very much. So is anyone answering for the discussion? No new amendments, no new proposals. Since there's no answer for discussion, I'm putting the law to the vote. Please vote now. Thank you very much. Unanimity means the law was passed in the same text as the House of Representatives. The seventh item of the agenda Ad.7. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Taxes, first reading You received the law, as well as a report by the competent commission. The Commission adopted two amendments that became an integral part of the text of the law. The House of Representatives passed the law in the first and second readings in the proposed text. 13 This is the first reading. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. Are there any debaters? As far as I can tell, it's gone. Please, I suggest that at today's session, we do, I suggest, I beg your pardon, that the law be passed in the first reading. Thank you very much. Vote now. So unanimous. Thank you. So we're moving on to another reading. I suggest that today's session be debated in a second reading. Please let us vote. Who's in? Vote now. Thank you very much. Unanimity. Since there have been no new amendments, I suggest that right now, if there are no discussions again, I suggest we also vote on the law. Please approach the vote and vote now. Thank you very much. So we unanimously passed this law, but we have some problems, and we have adopted it in a different text, and we will need a committee to bring the texts together. We're going in a row from the Bosniak people's proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5069	Since it's a very important law for us, we here propose the chairman of Mr pamuk to the commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5070	Thank you very much. From the Croatian people a proposal to hear. Thank you very much. From the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5071	Mrs. Ruža Stojanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5072	Mrs. Ruža Stojanović. Thank you very much. Please, we heard the commission's proposals to adopt the commission. 14 Who is it that the commission of Pamuk, Zrna and Mrs Stojanović agree on behalf of our home this law? Vote now. Thank you very much. It's unanimous. Ad.8. Proposal for a law on the prevention and prevention of drug abuse, first reading, you received the law as well as a report from the competent commission. The Commission adopted 15 amendments that have become an integral part of the text of the law. The House of Representatives passed the law in the first and second readings with 15 amendments. This is the first law reading. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. Who's answering for a word? He's not answering. Sir, I'm sorry, Mr. Limov, I beg your pardon. This is the first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5073	First reading. I'll talk about principles.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5074	Here, I knew you'd call early this morning, so I'm sorry I missed out on you a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5075	But you didn't expect me to do anything later when they were amendments, I guess. No, I really want to say a few words about what is called first reading, and first of all, I want to express my satisfaction that on occasion we are considering and I hope to adopt one such law and where we are fortunate to have done so far before, where we are fortunate to have done so in a procedure that would ensure a public debate that, in the matter of discussing this law and the way this issue is regulated, the relevant institutions that exist in Bosnia and Herzegovina of different profiles, therefore starting with NGOs, the religious communities they wanted not in the area of combating this evil, which is called drug abuse despite our society and spells have achieved the most appropriate and best results so far. But when it's like that, most of the time, it's just that when we come to the finals with the law, it's called for deadlines, needs, promises, and so on. What I want to draw attention to, first to those who are doing reasons that when they send us some laws in the first place, they make it the first reason that it is the need and interest of our citizens to us, our state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are four reasons here, and there is no, of course, what is most important to me. They stated - the first reason for international obligations relating to the implementation of the Convention, and this applies to other laws, or conventions. - The second commitment to the EU, as it is one of the conditions of the Implementation Study, is therefore on page 28. The third reason is the request of the UN International Committee for Drugs Control, and the 15th is that according to UN reports, Bosnia and Herzegovina is unable to co-operate properly with other countries in preventing illicit drug trafficking. So behind all these reasons, I personally am willing to vote for every variant of this law, although I personally believe that in this problem it was necessary to approach a much wider one, to include more subjects. What they say is to install these entities into certain legal solutions. I respect the efforts of those who have prepared this law, because it is not for themselves, but it makes a package that includes a list of intoxicating drugs, psychotropic substances, plants and prescribers. In that sense, this is certainly a big job and logically that there are no ideal laws, but personally I think it was possible and possible in previous stages, in the commission first of all, without touching the concept itself, the very principles of the law could have been found, and I personally think that the law should be seen primarily from the aspect of the number of users and drug addicts who in Bosnia and Herzegovina are worrying and he is at least four times, so those who are a little more professional in this problem than the number that is in official statistics. I have to say, there are really absurd situations here. Let's say the day before yesterday two addicts died of an overdose in Livna, and there are no addicts in the six municipalities of the Lithuanian canton in official documents. So, of course, such examples across Bosnia and Herzegovina can be found much more than that. In any case, I have to say that by this occasion, by supporting the principles of this law, Bosnia and Herzegovina was once exclusively a transit country, or at least that's what we thought and where we were lucky that it was just like that, at least so on the so-called. The Balkan route for drugs, but today it is increasingly the country's goal and source of what is the emerging form of organised crime. Of course, domestic and trans-national, therefore of international character, primarily in terms of illegal production and trafficking of intoxicating drugs, psychotropic substances, plants and supersedes. It is not in this law, in my opinion, regulated in the right way, the problem relating to the subjects that are in the front of this evil, such as the homes for addicts, NGOs, communes, and as they are already called, the standards that these subjects must meet and to deal with this problem because there is really no place for me to say "supervisive" to do so, but to meet the relevant standards in a professional way, and so that the consequences are not even more difficult than when a person finds himself in a situation where he has to be treated, or that he has to be helped, and in particular, in a more thorough way, to work out the problem of the prevention and of all those forms, primary, secondary and territorial and in this sense, define the law of prevention entities, which is not, or which is better just partially done. We also need to specify the problems of keeping records and in this sense use other forms of records, better say other subjects who have their records, because if we used that record then this in Livno wouldn't surprise us since parents take them to communes, etc. The communicators have records, but none of them will be under this law, nor will their records be accounted for. The records of relevant administrative bodies, ministries, etc. shall be recorded. In any case, I would like to say that the experts involved in this problem have had a professional opportunity, so other experts not only consulted on the occasion of this law that they have had the opportunity to be involved at least through this debate, let's say in the 16-stage commission why we didn't need more than 15 days. So for more than 15 days, we wouldn't spend more on the team, which from the beginning of September to here in the middle of this month, it was somewhere in the drawer and only then came to the commission. So somewhere in the parliamentary procedure, I don't know this or that. In any case, nothing practically happened until that moment with the bill. Of course, I'm saying there's no law that's ideal. I believe that in terms of these elements that I have mentioned only to the one, and I believe that there was certainly room for them in a more thorough and more concrete way to talk about this issue, and all with the aim of not making certain fundamental failures, and so that we would not have to quickly have this law as some others who, when we bring us to believe that everything by European standards, the Law on the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, on the criminal procedure on the state service, on the work in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which we have changed five times in this term. Every European law in two or three months shows the need to change. That is why it would be good to put into practice not only in connection with this law and otherwise to involve the public as much as possible, the non-governmental sector, and to help us, in the first hand, to make such legal solutions that would satisfy our needs and interests. Of course, sometimes it happens that this is the product of the copying section, and then the elemental things drop out, and that's why I'm surprised when there's no understanding that these elemental things are getting better because with a lot of understanding of those who are jealously protecting what they're proposing, I'd like it to be more of an effort to respect what it is to say the alphabet from a particular issue and what when it's going to be an integral part of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5076	Thank you, Mr. Limov. We've heard him think about this law and the need to express what he thinks. Is anyone else answering for the discussion? He's not answering. I'm now putting the first-reading bill to the vote. Please vote now. So we passed a bill on the prevention and prevention of drug abuse in the first reading unanimously. I'm asking you to hold a discussion at today's session in another reading. For the discussion in the second reading, here's to vote on it. Do we agree to have a discussion in the second reading? Please vote now. So we unanimously agreed to discuss this law in the second reading. The second reading discusses amendments. So he's voting on the law. Mr. Limov took advantage of the business provision of Article 89(2) and renewed his amendments to the committee's session and did not get a pass and we now have seven amendments to Mr. Lim. First, whether we're going to discuss the amendments together, and I'm asking Mr. Limov, since they were amendments and on the committee to watch us hurry up with an explanation, 17 since we agreed that in 10-15 minutes we'd take a break to go to that memorial, or we're going to stop this debate right now, or we can interrupt the debate now, but. Thank you very much. That's why I'm asking you to in this explanation. Thank you very much, colleague Limov. I think here's an amendment from my colleagues, Lim, which I said they were on the board, and you've got everyone on the table, so please, I'm opening the debate. Thank you. Here you go. Is anyone picking up? Please. One amendment at a time. Is there any need to say anything about these amendments, since we have a text? No, please I ask, I don't know, I don't want to think, I ask you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5077	Of course, I'll say that the argument I received from the committee's proposings didn't satisfy me, and that's of course enough reason for me to renew the amendments. Because you see, to say that this body in Article 8 is an expert body, and in it three ministers, because one responsible person of 5 people, and there is no place for, say, the Minister of Security, when it comes to this problem, is not enough reason for me. And in the spirit of what I've been saying, I think it should be included, if I may include the Ministers of Entity Health. Then I don't see why we shouldn't involve social policy ministers, or responsible persons from that segment, because here, bearing in mind the man responsible for Brcko District, we only have one man working in a department that normally has three employees, he and two other employees. And he's a member of this committee, and he has two other entity and one state minister. Now, that was my motive. So if it's a professional body, then he must have a different structure. If it's a body that has to give gravity to this problem, I think it's the right thing to do, and the Minister of Security has instruments through his agencies, his own, so our own, but the agencies he's headed, which are legally dealing with this problem, better say, by curbing the production and traffic of intoxicating drugs. It was a motive to propose this first amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5078	Thank you very much. We heard Mr. Limov. Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5079	Thank you very much for your word. I welcome my colleagues, all who follow the work of our home. So, I must say on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Commission that these are amendments that have not been passed on to the Constitutional and Legal Commission for the reason that they have not been accepted by the Proposer from the Council of Ministers. So in this amendment, when it comes to not looking back at other amendments, it's an identical explanation. There's a department inside the ministry that's been involved, so instead of a minister. So that's why there's no minister and there's identical arguments. So they weren't accepted by the proposer. It would disturb me to say the concept of the proposed law, and therefore the Constitutional and Legal Commission did not accept it. But it is the right of a respected colleague of Lim to fight for his amendments, no matter what they are a falsif. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5080	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Here he was, looking from here I had a chance to notice that Hasan had little infidelities. However, I think after this explanation by Mr Filipović that everything has gone to bed and that the ministry is represented by some team, is it on this and that it will be good. I ask my colleagues to put this on, if there are no further discussions, whether to put this first amendment to Mr Lim's vote. You have everything in front of you, and I'm putting the first amendment to the vote. Please vote now. Total, what this is, is 3.5 versus four abstentions. The amendment didn't go through. We're going to Amendment II. Please vote for Amendment number II now. Sorry, we're voting on the amendment. So, it would be said that this amendment has no passage either. He didn't make it. Amendment number III. - Three for, seven against, no one abstention. Please also make your statement on Amendment number III. Am I right now? Thank you very much. Here's the amendment that didn't go through, and his balance is 3 for, 6 against, 3 abstentions. And now we will vote on Amendment IV. Please declare Amendment IV now. Here you go, Mr. Limov. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5081	I'm not answering another amendment. This is therefore fundamentally proposed to embezzlement the concept of "habilitation" which is of course the night to sign up for rehabilitation, and the first time we meet, so he cannot be in a certain community institution, etc., but only the one who rehabilitates. So this is a professional term, and it's incomprehensible that this is out of the law, but no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5082	The President of the Commission, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5083	Thank you very much. I'd like to see the bill promoter on this.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5084	So do we have a bill promoter? Sir, please. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5085	Thank you, Mr. President, members of the presidency, I would like to welcome everyone present. As regards this amendment concerning the introduction of the word ‘habilitation’ in Article 69, in all respects, all amendments speak a little more about social policy and educational policy. So we did not want to act in this segment on an educational social policy which is largely in the jurisdiction of the entity. However, they would only remain on the issue, which is the fight against abuse. So when we talk about a concrete example of rehabilitation, then we would also have to put socialization into it. So we're working before there's a moment of rehabilitation. We have introduced him under the early detection system as a preventive method, hence early detection of all persons who wish to engage in this action, and as provided for in Article 69, under prevention and other measures. So we haven't seen for this reason why we put on rehabilitation, treatment and rehabilitation, so we should socialize, and then resocialize addicts, and so on. Then the termological law in a certain way would be discouraged in this segment by so-called preventive action that we also predicted was in all segments of the law. So here's what you asked me to read about only this one amendment, so here's what would be about this one.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5086	So we could say that the legislator wouldn't
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5087	We stay at our position so we don't change the essence.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5088	Thank you very much. Here's what we've heard. We've heard the legislator. We know your opinion. Please. So if this part was turned on, and if we were to include this term, then all those initiatives would have to be involved, and it might be a little awkward. Thank you very much. I'm putting amendment IV to the vote. Please vote now. So this amendment didn't go through either, 3 for, 6 against, 3 abstentions. Amendment V. I'm putting it to the vote. Please vote now. Uh, sorry, mistake. Please repeat. Can it happen again? Please vote now. I made a mistake in these buttons. Everything confused me. Thank you very much. Amendment V is also not passed, for 3.6 versus, 2 abstentions. 20 Amendment VI. Please vote now. Thank you very much. So the amendment didn't go through, 4 in, 7 against, 1 abstention. And Amendment number VII is on the agenda. Vote, please. And this amendment has not been adopted. Here we are waiting for this balance. - 4 for, 6 against, 2 abstentions. So this amendment didn't go through either. Please, we're voting on the law now. Who's up for the adoption of the law? Please vote now. So we're unanimous, it seems like I've passed the law. Let's see the balance. 12 for, no one against, no one abstention. The law was adopted in the same text as the House of Representatives. I, therefore, have passed the law. I'm taking a break by 3 o'clock now, great till 3:30. Here's the correction, please. He can't. It's a memorial. Please go to half three. How about that, Halida? Don't do that to the parachese. Until half past three. Thank you very much. So I'll meet you at 3:30. Here you go. I didn't hear you. You can't make it. No, he can't. ...the break is whether, which we explained before we made it, here we go on with the session and the ninth item of the agenda, Add.9. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading You received the Law as a report from the competent commission. [[PAUZA]] The Commission adopted 11 amendments that became an integral part of the text of the Law. The House of Representatives passed the Law in the first and second readings with 13 amendments. This is the first reading of the law. Article 94 first discusses the necessity and principles on which the Law is based. Is there anyone here for a word? I don't see any reports. This means that we are going to the adoption of the Law in the first reading. Please vote. I have a feeling it's, as long as I see the balance that the law was passed in the first reading with 11 for, and 1 abstention. I suggest we hold a discussion at today's session in a second reading. Who's in favor of going to the law in a second reading? Please vote now. Thank you very much, here's a total of 11, actually a total of 9 for, no one against, 1 abstention. So we adopted. 21 The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. We have now received a bit of an untimely amendment from our colleague Đoka Pajić and here, that amendment I think a little amendment is late and there are little misunderstandings, so I would ask my colleague Pajić to make another statement about this amendment. We had a little discussion in the break, so let's see if we made a deal and if Mr. Pajić will change his attitude?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5089	Well, here are the gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, at the session of the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House of Nations, I have tabled two amendments to the proposal for this law, namely the amendment and addition of the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights, and both my amendments have been rejected, not accepted at the session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Of course, among the others and this is one of those is this amendment that I have renewed today. I am aware that, according to the Rules of Procedure, it took 48 hours before the meeting of this House, to renew the amendment. But I've been thinking for a long time whether to restore it or not, I'm also aware that and that I've invested it 48 hours earlier, or today, so it won't be accepted in every case. I'm aware of that fact. But there have been cases, I remember that even in some previous periods, under some other laws, during the House's session, the amendments are invested, so that's how, but now it doesn't matter, that you don't break the Rules of Procedure, so here I am going to withdraw this amendment. But here, we've already come across a statement on amendments and to the law if you'll excuse me, I'd like to speak now and since a proposal for a second reading has been passed, whether, now, I'd take the opportunity now, if I didn't take two words, I said that in the session,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5090	I'm sorry, would it be a discussion now?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5091	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5092	So let's just figure one thing out. Mr. Pajić gives up the amendment, and now this is what the discussion on the law says, about the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5093	Well, I said that at the Constitutional and Legal Commission session, I am for reform, I am aware that this is one of the laws that is a condition in the Performance Study but I want to say this time, I am one of those who represent the the thesis that everything that is regulated at BiH level, of course I also support the institutions of the ombudust at BiH level but I am against and abolishing institutions in netite. I was against, you remember also against many other laws, the Law of Defence, the Law of Service in the Armed Forces, etc. to be abolished by entity institutions. Of course, I wanted this amendment to ensure, at least through the laws at the level of BiH, that the minimum of those institutions in entities were provided, so I asked whether they were to form entities, whose seats would be in Banja Luka and Mostar, i.e. for the RS and the Federation, and of course, it was rejected, and that is why I will, at the next stage, that is to say, with statements on the other amendments, be abstention or against, I will decide when I vote, because I believe that this amendment is to Article 1. The law is very important, since it isn't adopted, of course I won't be able to vote 22 for the rest in the next phase. But, well, I gave up the amendment because by respecting the Rules of Procedure, I didn't take it within the time limit and so on.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5094	Thank you very much. I have to tell you dear colleagues, that here and our colleagues, our friends who are ombudious and if anything is necessary, you, I will let them, I will give them the word to speak, to explain possibly some vague things that appear here through discussion. And now, I give my word to my colleague Jukić, he asked for a word and I beg him to come out.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5095	Well, I'll do it very briefly, although I may have wondered if I was speaking at all, the truth wasn't too much of a problem, but I can't help but notice one by myself the illogicalness. In fact, one practice that is either persistent or persistent through the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which is that it brings two homes to different positions. So, unconditionally different, the Constitution has established what their position is, is also contained in this law, Uu Article 3 where it is said that the Parliamentary House of BiH will form a special ad hoc body, commission, which will publish a public call and, after the public procedure has been carried out, establish a list of candidates that meet the conditions laid down by this law, etc. So, I don't know again, what it would be and thus it was found to be the jurisdiction of the House of Representatives, not the House of Peoples. If that's the case with some law, then I apologize to everyone for my ignorance. But as far as I know, it is not determined, but this provision gives it to the House of Representatives. I don't know why. In particular, if read further, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly will now appoint both ombudusmen and two deputies at the same time. This is what the Parliament Assembly is thinking of, therefore, one and the other home, and the procedure will mean the competition will be conducted by the House of Representatives. Again, in the text itself, when he says he will ask the candidates to present their concept of the institution's work. Look, this isn't the government's work programme or I don't know, who has a little bit of a breadth in creating their own kind of, I don't know, different sightings on some questions, etc. The work of this institution has been established by law or law, therefore, can only be done in accordance with this law or laws, and with what is normally applicable in the area. But, well, I only mention this on the way. My main grudge is therefore, and I resent and transfer myself for not responding in time and making an amendment to fix this. I think we're a little bit of an opportunity often and misbehaving and bringing homes into different positions. I think we should do the opposite.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5096	Thank you very much, thank you Mr. Jukić. He answered the word Mr Filipović. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5097	Thank you for your word, Mr. Chairman. So I just wanted to make a little correction of what Mr. Jukić said. Mr. Jukić read the personal text of the bill, however, on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, the second amendment to Article 3 that is completely changing, has corrected what Mr. Jukić objected, that I do not take up time, let the amendment 2nd point 4, point 5th continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5098	Thank you very much. I thank Mr Filipović for this warning, he is fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5099	My apologies, I didn't link the amendments to the text of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5100	Thank you very much, thank you. Is anyone else picking up? So we don't have any further debaters. So we're voting on the law. Who's up for the adoption of the law? Please, let's vote now. The law was passed with 11 for, no one against, 1 abstention and we must say that the law was adopted in different texts. I would ask that we pick the representatives of the House of Peoples for the Commission immediately on this occasion. Here are the Bošnjak.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5101	Mr. brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5102	Mr. brkati. Hrvat?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5103	Mr Tomislav Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5104	Mr. Limov. Srbin?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5105	Mr. Šiljegović
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5106	Mr. Boško Šiljegović. So, the representatives of the Commission from our home are Mr. Brka, Mr. Limov, Mr. Boško Šiljegović. 24 May we please state who is in favor of being representatives? Vote now. So we voted and accepted the members of the Commission by 10 for, 2 abstentions. Thank you very much. It's the tenth item of the agenda, Add.10. Proposal for a law on customs violations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading, you received the Law as a report from the competent commission. The Commission accepted the text of the proposal for a law in the proposed text. The House of Representatives passed the Law in the first and second readings in the proposed text. This is the first reading of the law. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the Law is based. Is anyone picking up? Mr Hasan Čengić, on behalf of the Commission or? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5107	Therefore, at its 43rd session, the Commission for Foreign Trade Policy considered this law. As there were no amendments to the House of Representatives or on our commission, the Commission has assessed that this law should be proposed to the House for adoption. This law complements a set of four laws that are necessary for the start of the VAT application and we propose to our distinguished colleagues that, given that there are no amendments and there can be no amendments now, because they were not on the Commission, that we give consent. I suggest we plead today on this law both in the first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5108	Thank you very much. Here we heard Mr. Čengić, the representative of our commission. I'm asking, are there any more debaters? Thank you very much. No one's answering for a word. We'll vote on the law in the first reading. Please vote now. Here, we can now say that this law in the first reading was forgiven by 11 for, 1 abstention and no objection. As we have heard from Mr Čengić, it is the Commission's proposal to adopt this law in another reading. Well, I'm asking my colleagues to vote on it. Here, vote now. So we unanimously adopted to go on, for this adoption of this law and in the second reading. In the second reading, there was no discussion, new amendments to the proposal for this law. Now we should vote on this law. 25 Is there a need for a person to answer the question, even though there is no amendment, is there any discussion? Thank you very much, no. Please, let's vote on the law. Now, dakle, 11 for, no one against, no one abstention. So we unanimously passed that law in the same text as the House of Representatives. We have the eleventh agenda, Add-11. The draft Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina received a report from the Commission. The Commission adopted the proposal for a Rules of Procedure with 24 amendments which became an integral part of the text of the proposal. This is a happy day for this Parliament because it will definitely adopt a new Rules of Procedure and I am opening a debate on the Rules of Procedure. Can I get a word in? Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5109	Thank you for your word, Mr. Chairman, the brief introduction only works before heating up the others for discussion. So, on several occasions, the Constitutional and Legal Commission discussed the Rules of Procedure at two sessions, 42nd and 46th session of the Constitutional and Legal Committee. So you've already said how much the amendment has been accepted. Many of these amendments are essentially the common provisions contained in the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives in the accepted amendments on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, so that, given these many common provisions, we have been as identical or as identical as possible, this, therefore, relatively identical, although by accepting this number of amendments, we are again in different texts compared to what was accepted in the House of Representatives. In view of the extent of the changes and additions, therefore, the Rules of Procedure through one long work, so one long period, I think that over a year, almost two, have reached a completely new Rules of Procedure. And now that we've just finished this really huge job that we have to admit, we haven't worked that long because we've had a lot of work on it, but because it wasn't continuous. And, because we have made certain consents with both the same Commission or the House of Representatives Committee. But here we are, therefore, with this kind of long-term work, it seems to me that we have come to a good, good Rules of Procedure which we will all have if there are announced constitutional changes, so we have to take back the attachments, so we need to take a thorough look at everything that is necessary when constitutional amendments and amendments are made, and if they come to them and to what extent they are, then the amendments to the Constitution will have to be made in relation to the Presidency in relation to Parliament, etc. this, in relation to Parliament's election, the election of members of the Bureau, therefore fundamentally modifying its act governing the work of our home. Since this is so specific, therefore, the reading that governs the work of this home, and since we have always and repeatedly read new ideas, the proposal is therefore, the Constitutional and Legal Commission, therefore, the conclusion that at this session we will also allow each representative here in the House to reach the conclusion of 26 discussions and to put to the conclusion of this Rules of Procedure, each of us has the right to say, excuse us, we will not be able to plead yet and I think we should respond to this article and this. So it's not about the amendments and the additions of the Rules of Procedure to the House of Peoples, it's about a whole new Rules of Procedure of the People's House. The Constitutional and Legal Commission is asking that you accept this report and such a Rules of Procedure, I believe that, in that sense, the President of the Committee will say something, that this is a good basis for your decision-making practically on the final text of the Rules of Procedure which would then go to the Commission for Consensus with another House when it comes to common provisions in the Rules of Procedure and both. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5110	Thank you to the President of the Commission, Mr Filipović. Here, I put the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Peoples under discussion. Mr. Genjac, I didn't see you please. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5111	Here, I will remind us here even though Mr Filipović spoke a little bit about the history of the creation of this new Rules of Procedure. So, by decision of this house nearly two and a half years ago, the Committee for the Making of Rules of Procedure was appointed as Mr. Boško Šiljegović, Mr. Vinko Radovanović, Mr. Halid Genjac, Mr. Hasan Čengić, Ilija Filipović and Velimir Jukić. We worked really not to speak exactly in hours and days but at least 10 sessions of maybe 5-6 hours plus at least 3-4 joint sessions of both committees, Banja Luka, Bjelašnica, Mostar. So we were real, but why? So I think this is, this is a document that, after the Constitution, most times or even the same as the Constitution, we quote. So, we're working on the rules of our work. I believe that we have introduced a lot of changes in this Rules of Procedure and that change which I am sure will make a much better work and refresh the work of our home. There are particularly significant changes, I would not now elaborate on this, about the legislative process. So what really is our main task. In a new one, I would say a more modern way we have regulated this procedure and not only the legislative process, but also other issues from Parliament's jurisdiction. You can see for yourself how large this material is. I am convinced that these solutions are good, that they will improve our work, the quality of our work, but I am also sure that if we opened the debate today and a little deeper than this as I imagine we should open up, then we would really enter into a new phase of new proposals for new amendments and complementing existing solutions in this document. Therefore, I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the members of the Commission and the members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and everyone in the House, all my colleagues for their contribution and engagement in the drafting of this document. So I think we should adopt this document in the form and in the text that is offered in the belief that today, but only today we don't have better solutions although this is a very living matter, a matter that is subject to almost daily change and really needs are such, the dynamics are that we will also realize that these solutions here, which we think are best for some time today, we will see that they need to be recompleted. Of course, that we should also choose board members to help those issues that are being settled between the two homes, to be equally responsible, to ask them to work quickly and expediently, in order to have adopted rules of procedure and one and another home of the Parliamentary Assembly this year. 27 I would take advantage of the opportunity, although I do not see representatives of the OSC here, to thank them for all this time supporting us in various ways, with their advice, with professional help but also with the truth, not too much, but by means of financial means, to ensure that this commission is found several times outside this building with the aim of getting better and better solutions. I am also informed by them, that they are still in the mood, I am still saying this, because it has been a long time since the work began on this project, that they are willing to finance printing and whether, making suitable brochures or appropriate editions of these Rules of Procedures. Let's take this opportunity, let's do it this year because as you know, their budget year ends as well as ours with the last day of this year. So, here's an appeal to all of us, let's adopt this and hurry for this committee to agree on those provisions that need to be brought into line, as soon as possible, and that we have the finished text and that we can publish it in this year. That's it. Once again, I'm grateful to everyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5112	Thank you, Mr. Jukić. Mr. Halid Genjac answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5113	Dear colleagues, at the end of today we are at the end of a very important, extensive and thorough job, and it is evident that the representatives of the OSC did not have the patience to wait for the end of this because it really took time. But no matter what, I think there's room to thank the OSC mission for the support they've given us. I think that with this Rules of Procedure, with the proposal of this Rules of Procedure and its adoption, we get a modern Rules of Procedure, a Rules of Procedure that regulates the procedure appropriate to traditional and developed European democracies and, in addition, it is done in accordance with the rules on the making of normative acts, which this constitutional and legal commission also adopted and which applies to this parliamentary assembly. The Rules of Procedure, in addition to resolving a number of procedural issues which have so far proved insufficiently and vaguely and not sufficiently precisely normised, introductions and innovations that are very important, useful and that will be quite certain, in the coming period which is expected to require thousands of laws in one term, enables that goal to be adopted. That is, above all, what I mean is the period of stabilisation and the accession of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the EU. As is the custom in European countries, the focus is on commissions, and I immediately point out here that the Rules of Procedure have set up several significant joint committees, which will significantly simplify the procedure, rationalise the use of time, and you know what very significant commissions are being implemented. In addition, the Rules of Procedure have also regulated a vague issue so far of convening joint meetings, it has indeed, in my opinion, identified the appropriate scope of the need for joint sessions and the way of work and decision-making in the Joint College, which has also proved to be a lack and vaguely regulated issue in the current Rules of Procedure. Among the other newspapers and those that exist in many European countries, we, too, are introducing special joint sessions of homes to treat issues and 28 answers and where once at least half a year, the Joint College will organise a special joint session of both homes, under the theme of delegates, MPs ask, the BiH Council of Ministers answers. I think that this is extremely important and that, in this way, I am again talking about the period ahead of us, to a sufficient extent, to make the work of the Parliamentary Assembly transparent and public, and to do, I think more closely, necessarily more closely, and to understand the Council of Ministers' relations with the Parliamentary Assembly, that this way, through these two annual hearings, will make it quite different and very good. There are still a large number of innovations which, among others, are the appointment of parliamentary delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly, joint bodies, procedures, clarifications, in which way this is determined, and I stress that the same position of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly is respected throughout all activities, in all appointments and in everything that arises from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I understand, for this occasion, ours, perhaps, where we are the points of the agenda and all that we have done around this Rules of Procedure and the length of the process, I leave one question as a reserve because it seems to me that the practice so far has shown on several occasions that we haven't standardized that question enough. It is the joint committees for the alignment of texts adopted in different kinds on both homes. We have that category in the Constitution resolved, called a joint committee of three delegates from both homes, and now the Rules of Procedure have defined how this committee decides, I think it is well done but a provision from the Constitution and from the former Rules of Procedure has been prescribed that the Commission is trying to reach an agreement on the identical text, and that is all. This sentence, I think, in its lack of precision and inadequacy, has so far been a source of misunderstanding. Namely, we come to, I have been several times in the Joint Commission, we come to the Joint Commission, one amendment to the same member has adopted one home of the second amendment to the same member has adopted another home, and now, for one amendment are of course from one home to another, from another home, and there is reason for this provision to be understood, that one amendment or another amendment can be accepted, so that the Commission can accept it either one amendment or another amendment, without the right to further intervention, options, etc. On several occasions, it has been shown that, if the Commission had a maneuver to accept part of the amendments, it could be a terrible relief to the Commission. Sometimes part of the amendment is more acceptable to the entire Commission than the entire amendment. Or, if the Commission could make some combination between the two amendments to two homes adopted on the same member. So, that, and of course, all of this would be decided in the way it is decided on the commission, which means that there would be no revote, there would be no possibility of reaching solutions unacceptable to someone, especially when the report is being re-reputed and returned to both homes and the Joint Commission report is being adopted. So my impression is that it would be useful, that it would be useful to specify this here in a way that is said, the Joint Commission seeks to reach an agreement on the same text, in which the Commission can be determined to adopt part of the amendment or by adopting a text that represents a combination of two amendments relating to the same article. In doing so, by choosing how it is decided on the Commission. I'm saying this from, many of you have been in a position on the Joint Commission in this situation, and for some time it has been a reason and a greater political conflict and misunderstandings, etc. Completely unnecessary, because in the end it comes down to the last word of the home, so I, if there is a willingness today to talk about it, and as far as it's understood as a need, 29 would be in the mood to have some possibility of supplementing this provision, by investing this one sentence in common, if we define ourselves, and I think it would be useful, if it can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5114	Thank you. We heard Mr. Genjac's discussion. Let's hear it. Here comes Mr. Limov. What you suggested, Genjac, I'm sorry, Mr. Limov, what you suggested, is that, in the form of a conclusion that you'd like us to state, home?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5115	..if we can reach some kind of commitment by debate, I'd like to make an amendment and adopt it and make it an integral part. If of course, together we estimate that,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5116	Thanks, that's it. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5117	Of course, I have no need to spend a lot of words here and I must say that behind us is a big job that I personally thought would be difficult to bring to an end and my satisfaction is so much greater, I hope that today we will get the Rules of Procedure, as an important document in our work, and it is understood that I will support the Rules of Procedure as is the Constitutional and Legal Commission, whose member I have defined and made known about the text itself. In any case, my congratulations to all those who participated in any way, in finding the appropriate solutions embedded in this proposal of our Rules of Procedure. Of course, any legal or other act of power shows in practice, so what today looks like to us is the best solution, it will be the practice itself, and I personally think that we should do so as soon as this Rules of Procedure comes into force, that we do according to it. If we need to change, it's a lot easier than this, because this is really about one whole document. As therefore a member of the Constitutional and Legal Committee and as chairman of the Commission for Supervisory over the Security Intelligence Agency of BiH, I have a moral obligation to support such a proposal by the Rules of Procedure for the simple reason that the amendments of the Commission, the Joint Commission for Oversight of the Intelligence Agency, have been incorporated and become an integral part of the text of the Rules of Procedure. Compared to the idea of fellow Genjac, who took it personally, I would like to say, of course, that we got it in written form as an amendment, but generally as I understood it, I realized it well on purpose, so that, nevertheless to the Joint Commission to give one space, not to do something new, but to do from that to two homes, if this is compatible, if possible, that one creative possibility in the context of it is to contribute and help the Parliamentary Assembly actually come to a proper legislative project, because often times what my colleague Genjac said, I would say the formal construction of a sentence in an amendment to one or another home, be the reason for mutual persuasion and sometimes we get into a situation and that our law falls. To be honest, it didn't happen many times in the last term, in this term, whether it flows, which is good in contrast to some earlier times, which is again a matter of a more creative, well-intentioned approach by members of the joint committees. 30 I am personally inclined to support such a formulation, and I would like my colleague Genjac to deliver it in writing, so that we will be pleased when we have agreed that we can have this debate on our own, so that when I see that, what is the definitely written formulation, I will certainly be inclined to support this proposal from my fellow Genjac. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5118	Thank you, Mr. Limov. Mr Filipović answered for his word, Mr Filipović, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5119	Thank you very much for your word. So this is a good question to think about. So, on this question proposed by Mr. Genjac. We discussed this post-festum after we accepted this on the Constitutional and Legal Committee, Rules of Procedure in the form that is now before us. And it really seemed logical to me, and now it seems logical, that we would have to define this a little bit more precisely and give this kind of additional power to the Commission to agree on different texts, which essentially smells like the authority that the Dom already had. So, dom adopted an amendment and now we would essentially have on the Joint Commission provided the possibility that this adopted amendment to the House as a small home, the Joint Commission has the right to redefine. It would only be acceptable to me in one form. Firstly, allow redefining in order to achieve, therefore, a common position on the Conformity Commission. One, if that redefination doesn't touch the essence of the text, it's one thing, and, secondly, since every amendment here when it's proposed by the property of an individual or a club, to consult, so it's to be with the consent of the applicant of the amendment. No matter who the applicant is, the amendment. It makes sense to me, and that would not raise the Joint Commission above the House, but would be compatible, therefore, in the overall phase, they would consult both the applicant and the dom who accepted it and then redefine the amendment on the Joint Commission. In that sense, it would personally be acceptable to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5120	Would that, question one. Would that make a little bit more complicated?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5121	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5122	Thank you very much. In a certain way, please Hasane, we've heard this in a certain way, representatives I'd say club representatives, two clubs. I think they are, but I said in a certain way, I told Filipović in a certain way. And, let's see, here you go. Here you go, Mr. Đoko, 31.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5123	Well, gentlemen, in the context of Mr Genjac's proposal, we, Mr Filipović, said on the Constitutional and Legal Commission we discussed and for these very reasons, and we left the possibility that the amendments could be tabled at the House session, this is what Mr Genjac was talking about. Indeed, from practice and I've had examples, you've probably all had examples at the meetings of the Coordination Committee, that there's a problem. And, it should leave the possibility that what Mr Genjac suggested, to leave the possibility of defining these amendments with the consent of all members of the Joint Commission, but I, I have been thinking exactly in this direction of what Mr Filipović was talking about, to be with exactly what you said, with the consent of both the promoter and the amendment promoter, to go this variant that Mr Filipović spoke of. So we spoke openly and we were all members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission in the order of all three nations for one such possibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5124	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for word? Here you go, Vinko.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5125	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would suggest that Mr. Genjac may try to formulate that proposal, so let's see on the basis of a formulated proposal, because there are some things that might be accepted. However, some things make it difficult, given the amendment, that the amendment has its applicant. The consent of the applicant to amend his amendment and so on, so let's see what that formulation would look like so we can try to come up with a solution based on a concrete formulation.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5126	Thank you, Mr. Vinko. Please, you answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5127	How was the whole legislative procedure in this part? So, the moment the House adopts the law in some text with amendments, etc., and when a three-member committee is appointed, it is my opinion that it is very difficult in such a well-conceived procedure, as it is imagined and defined in our Rules of Procedure to make any kind of relationship backwards, with the applicant of the amendment. I don't think that's a good solution. It'll make things more complicated for us and take us away from the solution and not lead us to a solution. My opinion, that this, that I have read again or again two or three times, this part that regulates this area, I think that at least I, I cannot find a better solution without getting hammered and that we may not have done or suggested a worse solution, is my opinion that we have taken a step forward than that solution that is now in force in our current Rules of Procedure and we have explained a little bit what this means by consent. So there it is said precisely, that it is at least one of each nation, most of each other, etc. which is already quite well-expected. 32 It is my opinion that we have no elements at this time, or at least I do not see a solution better than the solution offered. And I wouldn't worry if they didn't have people who were, those six people, so 3 from this home, 3 from another home, they'd find a way and here's the practice so far gives me the right to conclude that they're going to find a way. And I'm saying, the current solution must be something worse than the proposed solution. And my personal opinion and position and suggestion is not to touch the current solution, or solution that is proposed in the current text, that is, this Rules of Procedure that we are talking about here today. I'm afraid any addition will lead us beyond solution, not to solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5128	Thank you, Mr. Jukić. Mr. Čengić answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5129	So, as a member of the Commission, I have no intention of talking about how much we've been doing, as we've done, the evaluations will come after and the best assessments will come after a certain time of application of this Rules of Procedure, when we'll see what things we've actually overlooked, we haven't seen or the solutions we've offered which shortcomings they have. As far as this is concerned, I am very fond of the attitude that Mr. Jukić has expressed. I'm very fond of that attitude. We haven't been over this issue lightly, we've spent a lot of time, we've talked about more variations, and I don't think we could have found a better solution at this point. Maybe we should think about one thing. I personally think, so my personal position is that the simplest and best thing to do is to let this Rules of Procedure in this form, including this solution, be allowed to apply it for several months and then see what it looks like in practice. Alternatively, I suggest that today, here at the House, we do not say anything about Mr. Genjac's amendment, but I have the following suggestion, if we want to go in that direction at all, and I have very, very similar doubts and concerns that Mr. Jukić has raised, that we might, in a desire to do something quickly, come up with a solution that is worse than the one that occurred in a long period of serious work, but if we should do something at all, then maybe we should do the following. Let us conclude, let us say, that we agree that the Joint Committee on Text Consensus should consider only this question and if it has a joint proposal, to propose it towards both homes. Because certainly when the differences are brought together, we will have to give consent to this final text after the agreed differences and reports of the committee that agree with the texts. And for that reason, I suggest that today we adopt the text in the form proposed by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, to give one conclusion in which we agree that the Commission only considers this issue further, please just, that you will now say that there is no room in the procedure. I hold that there is. And don't let us go back because the lawyers tired me. If they wanted to do that job, I wouldn't be on the Commission. It's about the next one, so it's just like that. So this is about the following, if we talk about the Rules of Procedure and if we talk about homes bringing it in, no one else outside, this House has the right to give authority to the Joint Commission to try to propose a solution to that, which the House will finally agree on. 33 But we have this moment the solution which is proposed and for me is that which is accepted in the text itself, and that is the solution that goes towards the Joint Commission. If the Commission has a smarter solution, let it propose it, so the House can give final consent, but I suggest that today we do not declare ourselves on this amendment in the sense that we accept it because it could cause any doubt about the whole text of the Rules of Procedure and if we want to preserve it as some possibility of doing something else, that we should leave it to the Commission for reconciliation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5130	Mr. Brka answered his word. Thank you, Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome you all. I thought that in the end I would just approach my colleagues from the Commission who had been doing this for two and a half years and congratulate them on their winning Rules of Procedure. However, we are really specialists in making life more complicated for ourselves. If in 2.5 years, the Commission of 6 people in charge couldn't find a solution and came up after 2.5 years with a proposal and in Parliament's session, then offers new proposals again, then they didn't finish the job. Since I'm saying that you've done the job, please I suggest that we adopt this in this text proposed, I join what Mr. Jukić said and we will never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever find a final solution. Now this is like this, we think we've made a quality step, let's accept it, and when we say that we need to change, we're going to change as other laws change. So that we don't complicate our lives, that we can come out of this session today and tell ourselves, we've finally got the text of a proposal that needs to be brought into line with another home and that we have this Rules of Procedure. I suggest we don't make life worse for ourselves.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5132	Thank you. Here, can I take Jukić, and you'll replace me? I'll take this one, and it's my turn to say a few sentences. I think this all, this work that the Commission has spent on this and the quality of this process, is commendable. It is good that we all continue to think about our rules of procedure, it is after the Constitution for us the most important act, but my opinion is this, we will have a series of changes in BiH from, I will tell you how we see both constitutional and these and those and a lot of things will change in BiH and certainly create the need for us to our rules of procedure, so we change. To adapt it to life and to be alive and ultimately, it is a document that is not a holy letter, which will change the way it needs to be changed, how it should meet the needs of this Parliament. I also tend to keep this in mind, that we have a chance and that we should possibly change it, but I would also draw attention to it, that it might be at this point, that we do not drag things further, that we accept the Rules of Procedure in this form as given by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and that, in the coming period, we are testing that provision of our Rules of Procedure and that we can see whether we can improve things or whether we can already do with a provision that is what it is, quality work. 34 I would pray that here, and I would like us to think this way and I would like us to decide on this Rules of Procedure as it is, as it is now proposed. And that during the course of time normally, we have all shown here that we are serious people and that we are very serious about business, that we take care of what is quality to us in the Rules of Procedure, that it does not cause us any distractions and that we do that because we do it and we bring and fix it. There's no one else to do that. Thank you, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5133	I thank Mr. Pamuk.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5134	Mr. Genjac, you answered the word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5135	Let's take a little patience, though. I don't see any particular reason to rush. The drafting of the Rules of Procedure on the Commission was exhausting work. There have been many questions that have been discussed for days. One question left is this. I made the commitment. We agreed to figure out how to solve the joint commissions, see if we could. For this reason, we have left this opportunity to propose at the House because simply, we leave a solution that is really better than it has ever been, as Mr. Jukić says, but it is still not good enough and I do not think it should be easy to miss the opportunity, especially given that now that this Rules of Procedure at the House of Peoples is adopted, we will have to form a committee that will bring the Rules of Procedure into line with the House of Representatives in the provisions common to both homes. Therefore, the joint commission will still have work to do and there will be improvements and common solutions, alignment and quality achievement. We really have a problem. A very common problem on the Joint Commission that would be good if we tried to solve it. Mr Filipović, he gave me some idea that perhaps, to make a solution, with this other proposal for a solution that the amendment promoter consults, I don't think it is necessary because at the moment that the House adopts the amendment, it is the property of the House. So I think that, by referring to the members of the Commission, the Commission gives its opinion and these people, I think that a possible solution would therefore be, that this Article 117, at point 2 of this first sentence, where it says that the Commission is seeking to reach common agreement, insert a sentence, in order to reach an agreement on an identical text, the Joint Commission may agree on a part of the amendment or redefine the amendments adopted, which must not change the essence of the amendments treated. Further goes the way forward that says, in order to reach an agreement on what we have done and the same text, it is worth it, most of the votes of all members of the Joint Commission and, in that majority, the representation of all three constituent peoples as the majority of each home. Please, believe me, at least 20 commissions I was a member, this solution simply in 30% of situations solves the problem without any political implications and without any complications, just solves the problem. Because especially by ensuring this voting mechanism simply that there are no problems, that no one can be too loud. The next thing, this solution, because it's a solution for both homes together, it's tanging both homes, it's going to be the subject of a consensus on this committee that will bring the rules of procedure together. And then there's going to be an opportunity to add this kind of solution, that the House of Representatives says their own, maybe some sentence is added, improved, crushed and reached a tiny position and thus at least 30% of the situation is simply solved which problem is due to 35 commas or because of words that don't even tang the essence of the amendment. So I'd like to ask you a little bit, and this adoption is not going to be a definitive end, it's going to the Joint Committee, so with the House of Representatives, so I'd like to pray, so we have one more thing here, believe me. Here today we have passed several laws different from those adopted in the Predator House, appointed commissions. Now we have to wait for the House of Representatives' session to see that they are different texts and to appoint a committee. And every time, therefore, the House of Representatives adopts the law, passes time to the House of Nations, the House of Nations adopts, all this time to the House of Nations nothing, only when the House of Peoples adopts the law, so the House of Representatives sees that it is a different text, then it is necessary to wait for the next session of the Representatives to be appointed to the Commission and that this committee is drawn up after that period, etc. And there are solutions to some automatism of the College commission that are responsible for these laws, to be members of the Coordination Commission, but it is a procedure that I simply cannot insist on here perhaps on the Joint Commission to... maybe some solution, to be seen or the next stage, because we are also losing 2 months for no reason, waiting only to appoint a commission. After two months we wait and wait for the law to be published because we are waiting for the next session of the House of Representatives because they usually adopt first, so we adopt so that when they see that they are different, only they can appoint a commission at the next session. It's a waste of time. It will also need to be improved. We have to think about it and there's a possibility that in some future phase, but this solution, which I think, there's no political implications, there's no and there's no bar m 30% situation, I'd ask, however, that we try to understand and that, therefore, I don't insist on something special, but to try to understand that we might achieve that solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5136	I have a suggestion. Let's try not to run out on this one. We all have our opinions and don't take this forever, come on, Mr. Genjac, suggest a conclusion on what we should vote on and vote on and give it a vote, we'll wait for you a little while, and I think that's what's right. Are we gonna take a break so Mr. Genjac can make a conclusion or are we gonna go? It still needs to, it's still an amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5137	Excuse me. I think we're walking into a trap. If this is the way we call on the Commission in common to create it later, then with this amendment it is invited to create a new solution on the trail of solutions that are different. And I'm afraid that we're not going to make this more successful, but we're going to further complicate and I'm afraid that then the sessions are going to end in half an hour, an hour, last longer, and maybe on more than one occasion, etc. Because, I say again, we should not open new broad debates after the debates at home have passed, but only people agree what it is that is more acceptable, however, without being preferred, to have a medium solution. This is my basic reason for thinking this way, although, of course, the Commission has a solution like this in its Rules of Procedure, that it always has the right to agree on how it will work. Whatever they do, they agree, there's no reason, if the Dom determines otherwise, but mostly there's no, not to confirm the report. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5138	Thanks, I'll still be free to suggest that what Genjac was saying, I put this proposal to the vote. Right? And I think that's what, to read it one more time and definitely put it to a vote because watch out, this is a topic that we can all discuss a little bit longer and the goal is to get results.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5139	From the content of the amendment, you will see that the Commission is not given any right to redefine, to modify, to complicate because there are fences that must not change the essence of the amendments treated. Please, in Article 117, point 2 of the first sentence, add a sentence, - in order to reach an agreement on the same text, the Joint Commission may accept part of the amendment or redefine the amendments adopted, without changing the essence of the amendments treated. It's still going as it's all being adopted, the text continues.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5140	Thank you very much, thank you, Mr. Genjac. I'm putting Genjec's amendment to the vote. Please vote now. Please, please, excuse me. We'll do it again. The request is for Mr. Radovanović. Please vote now. Thank you very much. Mr. Genjac's proposal didn't go through. Thank you very much. Now, after all these discussions, I will put the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the vote, please, so here we are voting on the Rules of Procedure. Please vote now. I have a feeling that this is, we're going to see this balance, that the Rules of Procedure was unanimously adopted. 12 for, no one against, no one abstention. So on behalf of the House of the Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I congratulate all the people of the Commission on the work, congratulate also the Secretary of the House, and I thank the representatives of the international organisation who helped us adopt this important document for us and, normally, to all the members of the House of Peoples, I congratulate them that they have received one very important and necessary document that is whether, one rule by which they will behave in their work. Thank you. Let's go, we'll have to choose the members of the Commission to bring the texts of those relating to the joint committees, to the provisions of the work of the joint committees. In front of the Bošnjak, Hasana,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5141	I suggest Dr. Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5142	Dr. Halid Genjac. In front of Hrvat, 37
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5143	Mr. Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5144	Mr. Velimir Jukić. In front of the Srbin,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5145	Mr. Vinko Radovanović
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5146	Mr. Vinko Radovanović. So, the Commission, composed of Mr Genjac, Mr Jukić, Mr Radovanović, is our proposal. Who agrees with this Commission? Please vote now. I hope it's unanimous. Thank you very much. Moving to the twelveth agenda, Add.12. The proposal for a decision on the organisation in the Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat has been submitted to the Commission's report. The Commission adopted 9 amendments and concluded that the proposed decision was necessary. The House of Representatives adopted a proposal for a decision on the organisation of the Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat and I am putting the decision under discussion. And I'm asking, is anyone picking up? I don't see any discussion. Thank you very much. I'm putting the decision to the vote. Please vote now. So we adopted the decision unanimously and the decision was adopted in the same text as the House of Representatives. It's the thirteenth point, Ad.13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Air Traffic between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria's Report of the competent commission you received, the House of Representatives gave consent to the ratification of this agreement. Are there any members of the Council of Ministers? You're here, but who's the reference? Minister, you're replacing everything, aren't you? Well, you're the Minister's Empress, now shoot. Here, the Minister suggests that we verify this in a nice way, so I will, by one good custom, accept our minister's position and put this giving consent to the verification, to the vote. Please vote now. Let's vote, verification. So unanimous. So the air traffic agreement between the government of Bulgaria and the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been ratified. 38 Let’s go to the fourteenth point of the agenda, Ad.14. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Kingdom of Norway on the work of its own nationals and nationals of third countries, the Competent Commission, Mr Čengić,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5147	So, I guess you'll forbid me to talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5148	Please,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5149	Since I assume that you will forbid me to speak further, then I am taking the opportunity to tell you about your information, from this point or from the previous point to the last point, all points are related to the work of the Commission for Foreign Trade Policy. The Commission has considered all the points you have here, has proposed that all these points be supported. If there are any individual questions about someone, we are at our disposal. So we think that this is important to adopt and this is the beginning of the coronation of the great problem called visas for EU entry. So this is a small contribution to facilitate the position of BiH citizens towards visas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5150	Thank you Mr. Čengić for his rational attitude. Here, I am putting the agreement between the Council of Ministers and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the readmission of its own citizens and citizens of third countries. Please vote now. So we adopted this unanimously, too. Nice fellows. It's the 15th point, Ad.15. Giving consent to the ratification of the Supplemental Credit Agreement between the European Community, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Central Bank of BiH The report of the competent commission, Haso, is this yours again?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5151	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5152	This is all the way to the end. So I'm putting this on the line. Please, colleagues, plead now. Therefore, approval for ratification was adopted. Thank you very much. 39 Sixteen, Ad.16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the takeover of the role of co-founder at the Institute for Missing Persons of BiH between the BiH Council of Ministers and the International Commission for Missing Persons We have heard the Commission's position here, that they are for all of this to be accepted, all ratifications are accepted. Well, if there's no one to discuss it, I'll put it to a vote. Please vote now. Thank you very much. Here and here we got a score of 12 for, nothing against, no abstentions. The 17th item of the agenda, Ad.17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of air services between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, Evo, by analogy and by the President of the Commission, further if no one calls for a word, I put this to the vote. And please vote now. So we adopted unanimously and this ratification, 12 for, no one against, no one abstention. Eighteenth, Ad.18th. Giving consent to the Administrative Agreement implementing the Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Makedonija on Social Insurance and this, if there are no debaters, and I put this to the vote. Please vote, please, so I said if there isn't,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5153	Wait a minute, they do now. There are two documents here. One is the Social Insurance Agreement and the other is this administrative implementation agreement. Are they both on the agenda? One twice. Well, it can't be. Then there's a mistake in the title.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5154	Granting consent for ratification of the Agreement on the provision of aviation services,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5155	No, not the social agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5156	And giving consent to an administrative agreement for the implementation of the Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Macedonia on Social Insurance. What are you talking about? 40
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5157	So, first it has to go point 21 and then it's only this 18 because we can't adopt this, the Administrative Agreement on the Implementation of the Treaty and we haven't adopted the Treaty. Right?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5158	All right, order of things. I thank my colleague, Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5159	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5160	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5161	So I suggest that
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5162	So, I'm sorry, accepted. Please, colleagues, I apologize. We weren't paying attention. Here, giving consent, so the 21st point of the agenda, so we're changing it now. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia on Social Security Please vote now. Well, chief, can we do it again, please? I'm wrong here. You got it. Please vote now. So we adopted this unanimously. Giving consent is the next point of giving consent to the Administrative Agreement for the implementation of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia on Social Insurance. This is now this. Mr. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5163	I am taking the opportunity, before voting on this administrative agreement, to take the opportunity to convey the mood and attitude of the Commission which we did not formalise in the conclusion, but which is absolutely uniquely expressed to the Commission. It's about the next one. For a very long time, Bosnia and Herzegovina has been negotiating with the Republic of Slovenia on a social security agreement. The agreement that we have now ratified with Macedonia is one of the agreements that we have in this area and that actually shows, when there is good intentions on both sides, that the agreement can be extremely quality, comprehensive and ratified. 41 I am taking the opportunity to transfer to our Council of Ministers the opportunity to take a very clear position and to seek all the political roads, the Council of Ministers, if necessary the Parliamentary Assembly and the Presidency, to finally ask Slovenia Ljerka Marić we have so much time to resolve this issue which is very important for a large number of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to bring an end to this huge negotiation. That long negotiation goes to the detriment of BiH citizens every day.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5164	Thank you very much, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5165	I'm asking you to do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5166	Thank you very much, Mr. Čengić. I don't know if it's necessary to adopt that conclusion and give it to the Council of Ministers as a conclusion? Filipović, what do you think? It's not. It's determined. This is one remark,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5167	... over a year, and we released the Law on, a dual citizenship agreement with Serbia-Montenegro, and that is a very symptomatic issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5168	Excellent, Mr Filipović, we leave it to be uncomplicated, so we will later complicate on another occasion, to ask for it to be settled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5169	Let the Minister transfer it to the Council of Ministers and
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5170	This is really a serious problem for a serious Parliament. So we are going to vote on this granting consent to the Administrative Agreement for the implementation of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Macedonia on Social Security Please vote now. We didn't do this, we didn't get it, we didn't get it, we didn't give it to Hasan. So we unanimously adopted this. The 19th point, respectively, is the 19th point, Ad.19. Giving consent to the Note of the Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Slovenia on the conditions of permanent transfer of part of the contingent of the Republic of Slovenia in favour of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Gospodin Čengić, please. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5171	In order for the Slovenian gentlemen not to think that I have something against them, I must now say, on the other hand, that I am expressing high respect for myself and the entire Commission for the decision of the Government of Slovenia which transferred to Bosnia and Herzegovina 800 detachmen, so BiH companies' rights to use them in Germany. The debate we had on the Commission expressed the interest and call on the Council of Ministers to further engage in determining the possibility of expanding the contingent of the BiH Detective, not only towards Germany but also to other Western European countries, which could be of great benefit to the employment of parts of the companies and capacities and individuals unemployed in BiH. At the same time, when it comes to Slovenia, we express our high respect for Slovenia's readiness to transfer half of its total rights inherited from the former Yugoslavia, when it comes to these detashmans, permanently to BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5172	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. They're well-intentioned people, I guess. I'm putting it to the vote. Here you go, Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5173	I will repeat very briefly, thank Mr Čengić for saying the most important part, from the debate from the Commission's session. Here I will briefly repeat a part of my debate and refer it to the authorities, so first of all, it is the Council of Ministers and other institutions of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce and perhaps some, on the subject of the detashman. And here, I will take advantage of the presence of the Minister of Finance and the Treasury of BiH here. So it is known that one of the main problems of Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy is the lack of balance with abroad. In order for us to increase exports, one way is to get as many detashmans as possible especially in countries that are interesting to us, if the Federal Republic of Germany, Austria, Italy, etc., so that our businesses could in some way export the service of their work and product whether, the services of any other product in those countries. And I think it is very important for BiH to fight for a better position in talks with the representatives of these countries. So we see that some countries, like Slovenia, have more rights than their needs in these rights. And they are really very correct, part of their rights are given, they really should be grateful to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Now, I believe that our competent institutions should be ready and that there should be more of these rights for our BiH firms so that we don't have to use other people's rights, but that we fight for ourselves. So through our companies' rights institutions that they can work outside and thus contribute to larger exports and a better balance of payments with abroad. Here, I hear here, therefore, that this topic should be extended to some other institutions. I've told all the competent institutions. So, the Council of Ministers, the Foreign Chamber of Commerce and other competent institutions. And we have also locked ourselves on our commission seems to me to the chairman, that we will go here with the conclusion that we will ask for one thematic session of the Commission's truth on this subject with competent institutions, responsible people. To tell them that we expect them to do their job more responsibly, to elect a better position for our companies and our companies to work abroad. Because, I believe, I am convinced that this one area is very interesting for the export of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the employment of capacity and people capacity. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5174	Thank you, Mr. Jukić, but I think this one, that all the institutions we can talk about are in the Council of Ministers' authority. That the Council of Ministers must, should finish that part of the job and refer and tell the Assembly what it has done, and the Assembly certainly requires it from the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much. Do we have any more debaters? We don't. I am putting this Note agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovenia to the vote. Please, who's in, go ahead. So we unanimously adopted this note agreement. The next item is Giving consent to the ratification of the European Convention on Washing, Searching, Temporary Substantiation and Substantiation of revenue obtained by criminal acts by the Commission, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5175	I apologize to my colleagues for reporting, and this is certainly the last item of the agenda. I am taking the opportunity to express, on behalf of the Commission, a deep dissatisfaction and a sharp protest of the Council of Ministers and the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina's behaviour regarding conventions, agreements and contracts under consideration on our commission. This committee, this convention has been on our commission for the last eight months. It was even the subject of criticism by the Council of Europe because we did not adopt it. I remind you, the Council of Ministers and the non-presidency of the BiH Presidency, that our commission on three occasions put this agenda in the first half of this year's agenda, and not once in those three times has anyone shown up formally, just to say I represent the promoter. Not to say a word, no one showed up. Every time we kept an orderly announcement, even now at this last 43rd session, we warned that it was something that had already been removed from the agenda. No one answered again. So, we adopted this convention at the Commission, we propose to the House that it be adopted, and we would meet one of our obligations to the Council of Europe. I would take the opportunity to call on the Council of Ministers to finally, so finally ensure that the other two are met, I think I have two other obligations regarding the other two conventions required by the Council of Europe. I can't understand the reasons for that anymore. I've known about this problem for at least a year. So that's inadmissible. We've been a third year member of the Council of Europe, we've been conditionally observed in this, one of the conditions that have been prepared was these two conventions plus this. It wasn't done until today. I really don't have the sense sometimes, I don't even have the ability to understand what's holding that much of a formality. So, the pure formality that's here can't happen for a year. In that sense, we really call on the Council of Ministers, we have never insisted in the Commission that a minister, deputy, assistant, etc. appear formally. Whoever came to our committee and said, "I represent the Council of Ministers," was accepted. Here they have at least three of you on board and it's always been like that. So we don't insist 44 formally on someone's function but we really want to have someone who can answer questions that can appear or have already appeared about what we're discussing. So for this reason, I propose that this convention be supported today and I propose that the Council of Ministers, as soon as possible before the end of this year, take all necessary steps to ensure that these other two commitments to the Council of Europe are met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5176	Thank you, Mr. Čengić. Mr. Jukić answered the question, so Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5177	Well, I join the reviews and criticism and calls of Mr. Čengić. I'll just say one little cartoon in one more total picture of this condition. So I've been asked by journalists these days, and rightly the journalists ask and some question, it's good to ask about everything we do. As far as this is concerned, the fates of this treaty, in fact, of this Convention, says that is not the same thing that was proposed by, I don't know who, it doesn't matter to the SDP in the House of Representatives, through the Law on the Abuse of illegally acquired property, etc. And he says, it's the same in a different form and you object to it being ratified. There's even, say, logic for journalists to bring it into context to connect it to one another. But of course that's not true. The truth is, we just didn't have the formal conditions to decide so far. So how, in some cases, someone’s unresponsibly or irresponsibleness can lead journalists astray to come to the wrong conclusion. And that's why you really invite everyone to be responsible for doing their duty, to appear at the sessions. We are in the College session today, afraid that we will not again have the conditions to declare this, to take a short break of 5 minutes, we have asked that the secretary again, further communicate with the proposing representatives, that we can adopt this today. So this is just one line, one picture of how actually sometimes things can be misrepresented, actually, etc. Because from online circumstances, it can be misjudged. So, the call to be really responsible, to send the proposed material from the beginning of the procedure to its completion. And then it's right, right and only right.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5178	Here is an opportunity on behalf of the Council of Ministers, as far as I am, the candidate Ljerka looks like they want to bring her to Parliament that we Parliamentarians are ugly and she's not going to be our sympathies and we love her. Therefore, please be very careful about the discussion so that what does not happen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5179	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, given the fact that we're at the end of the work is whether, I think Mr. Čengić is not this harsh with the right and for a reason spoke, I probably wouldn't have answered. And I, of course, will be more moderate in that criticism given that this is a regular practice so that simply this, the fact that it's 9.12. The Council of Ministers last year, established a motion for a decision, says this is not an accident, Mr. Jukić, and what the press concluded was probably at the wrong address, but it is our job here to tell who it is. So this is about a convention that is our obligation to the Council of Europe. I'd say, I'd like to ask, if there's a Proposer today, not bringing up a question, I'll vote anyway for support, so get that consent. I would like to ask, in accordance with Article 40, whether Bosnia and Herzegovina has reservations regarding this Convention, bearing in mind, for example, Article 2(2) and other articles, which are indicated in this Article 40, which Bosnia and Herzegovina is entitled to because of the very serious obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We will not be judged during this period by whether we have ratified a certain convention, but whether we have installed appropriate solutions in our legislation that allow the implementation of the provisions of this Convention. Here, it is therefore very important that we know now because we have the right as a state to, to make a reservation, to deliver to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe according to a certain procedure and then Bosnia and Herzegovina would be treated differently. Therefore, at this stage and on the Commission, the applicant should have said what the measure is, what we cannot do. If we adopt this way, there are huge obligations before Bosnia and Herzegovina and be assured that there will also be appropriate consequences in this negotiation process that we have entered into. And while I am here and not to appear later, respecting and supporting what counterpart Čengić has announced as our obligation in terms of the visa regime, I would like to remind myself that there are only three elements for liberalisation, including the abolition of the visa regime for Bosnia and Herzegovina and there are still some countries in this treatment. So progress in border control, progress in the fight against organised crime and corruption and the signing of the Readmission Treaty with all EU countries. Today we ratified the Treaty regarding Norway. This is an opportunity for us as a Dom or at least through our commission, to have this in mind to initiate the proper activity of our institutions, to prepare these readmission contracts as soon as possible because it is simply our obligation. Some countries in our region, such as Albania, have already done so and, of course, because of these things, they are ahead of us, and it is about the fact that our administration should first of all make proposals and then we at the House will certainly, as we have this decision today, support all others who have come in the coming period. I appreciate that this is the right time for at least so the Commission to address the relevant institutions and ask that these preparations be made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5180	Thank you, Mr. Limov. Mr. Čengić answered his word again.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5181	If I understood Mr. Lim's question correctly, then I think it would be necessary, I would ask the Minister to listen to this. So, I think this is related to Articles 37 and 38 of this Convention, which stipulates that each Member State, once ratified in the making of a document, has the possibility and the right to inform the Council of Europe of what it accepts in relation to what it does, as opposed to what it does not accept as regards territory, application of law, obligations, etc. Therefore, after ratifying this convention here in the House, since the House of Representatives has already ratified it, we have three months to prepare this statement and to inform the Council of Europe, 46 of what we can accept at this time and what is not acceptable to us. In this way, I don't think we're late at all, I think we're just in time, because when it comes to laying down a document or defining our position in relation to territorial applicability, and in relation to the accepted or acceptable and unacceptable obligations. So it is actually the right time for the Council of Ministers by ratifying the Convention, to address this issue, to define its position and to inform the Council of Europe of our position when laying down the documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5182	Thank you very much. I apologize, Mrs. Marić. Do you have any?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5183	/removed from the microphone - it is not heard/ No, I have nothing, what the esteemed delegate Čengić said, the final provisions, constraints very clearly detail what needs to be done,... what the Council of Ministers and Parliament and one House and another House is actually monitoring these conventions. And that's the problem. What concerns me, however, is that this was sent by the Bureau on 10 January 2005, the first paper says that you were sent in January 2005, and we are now in January 2006.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5184	You see, there's one thing you need to be aware of. The rule is, and we're taking off the agenda points to which council executives do not respond, the Presidency was supposed to come to the Commission to help these people do something. The Council of Peoples actually had, namely the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers was also supposed to help. No Niko has decided to come, to help solve this, and thanks to only one understanding of this Parliament and home we are this today, we adopt this today. By the way, we should've dropped this by all accounts. Please, and you know that's the attitude. Please, here we go. Please, here is this European convention adopted by the House of Representatives and I will put it to the vote in our home. And I'm asking my colleagues to vote now. It's been rejected, this house won't solve it. So we adopted this unanimously. Thank you, dear colleagues, thank you. Please, I'd like to announce the following. Today, while we were working on this session, counterpart Jadranko, in communication with the House of Representatives Secretariat, learned that the House of Representatives would have its session on December 21st, right. Please, we'll have our own session on December 22nd. Stand by. It can't be any different. You know what the problem is? The holidays are coming, the holidays are coming. What now? Let's hear it. We can't, so we can't because watch out, what's wrong with us, watch out.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5187	I fully support Mr Filipović here. Please, if people insist on the holiday, which they have the right to, please don't let us have a session.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5188	When?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5189	Well, now he's saying please don't give it up.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5190	When?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5191	So what's the date, I don't know. I don't know the dates but I know that, please Mustafa, I know that Mr. Filipović is protesting for it. I agree with that. Don't touch those days when it's a holiday.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5192	Don't let anyone touch the days when it's a holiday. I mean, the brkati's no good, you're not a little bit, you don't need to, you need to think a little differently,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5193	No, I'm not a little bit, I know what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5194	The 22nd is not a holiday at all. It's a matter of preparation, I agree, I respect that, but the conclusion of the circumstances is such that we don't have a better choice. 48 Hello, we can't prepare, please colleagues you have to understand me. We can't prepare the agenda is we don't know that day what went on with them and we have to, so we have, Osmane, Osmane, we agreed that we wouldn't put on the agenda, Osmane, Osmane, Nose, Brka, can you listen to me? Well, Osmane, there's nothing to put on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5196	We do.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5197	What? So tell me what?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5198	Those same laws that they're gonna... they're gonna be the same.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5199	So don't make it, please, Mr. Čengić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5200	So first of all, I want to say very clearly that I appreciate the holiday of anyone, on any basis. And a holiday and a holiday. Here are religious holidays that are extremely important, and I respect them and respect them. And that's absolutely unquestionable. On the other hand, it's not right to break this problem into the College of our home, when the College of our home has no room to decide at all. There's only one thing I don't understand. I had informal information that the House of Representatives would hold a session on December 6th. Is there a session?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5201	No sessions,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5202	But they changed that.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5203	Well, I, I'm not asking this for nothing, but to explain, let's get clear between ourselves because colleagues who may not have that information know that by Friday afternoon I had information and had the information that the session would be 6.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5204	And I until this morning
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5205	We even planned a session of our committee after that meeting of the House of Representatives, so that we could know what had been done there, that we could work on the Commission. I'm saying this all in favor of what Mr. Mustafa Pamuk said. So, we simply, for your information, if we want to honor the deal, and he makes sense, so it makes sense, that we don't go on two blocks parallel to know who's doing what, so it's normal for us to go behind the House of Representatives, see what they did, and then think about it further. We are in a situation today that, under quotes, we have cleared up all the issues discussed by the House of Representatives. There are no more conventions, no more agreements, no more laws, nothing we haven't done that they've done.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5206	Saldo zero.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5207	Aldo's zero. So we just have to technically wait for them to finish. On the other hand, we all know that the procedure is such that we have to get at least a report, so a basic report on what happened at the House of Representatives. It's over or not. We can't just act on it, someone was sitting here at the House of Representatives meeting and ran over to let us know what happened. So, in this sense, the first thing that can be held is 22. And I'm really sorry, I'm actually using the opportunity to maybe agree on something else, to express a deep disagreement with the House of Representatives and their decision to change the term so significantly in 15 days. So it's not a small change. They're very, they're not us, they're very serious about 6. It's like the 12th session day.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5208	We had that information in college this morning, right? We had that information at the College this morning, now we've got another one.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5209	So the least we can do is do the first day after, so the first day after that. I think it would be absolutely impractical and I'm afraid inconclusive of us if we decided to hold a House session on the same day they do. That would really be unserious. And in the end, I suggest that this be decided by the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5210	Thank you very much, please, Radovanović wanted to. Please excuse Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5211	I thank the chairman. I'd like to say that I accept the reasons that my colleagues presented and I think that if one club says it can't be on that day, I accept it. But I don't understand why the House of Representatives from 6 to 23 can't find an appointment to hold a session and we can hold that session before 19 and not 23 when they failed. Why is the House of Representatives meeting on 23rd rather than on 8, 9, 10th, 15th, 17th?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5212	Please, 20th is going to be a joint session of both homes, 21st here's how much I've been informed, doing the House of Representatives for my session, the only option is that we do 50 22. If these guys had done six, we could've moved maybe a few days ahead and ended it all. But this is a better awkward situation that I don't know how to get out of. Let's let Jadranko explain it a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5213	Let me tell you, the House of Representatives is let's say in the same situation as our home. They went to that appointment for two reasons. The first reason they end up with that session is that they don't meet twice, and the second reason is that because they're going to be representatives of the 20th here, to be 21st, to be at one cost, to say, to reduce travel costs and everything, to be able to end as many as 21st, so that it doesn't eventually fall between Christmas and New Year's, to meet. If there's anything else,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5214	Thanks, buddy Jadranko. Mr Filipović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5215	I'd say very briefly. This home must know that half of this home of the people, so the Constitutional and Legal Commission is numbering 6 people, will be in the middle of a public debate on the Law on Higher Education, so we are starting from 6th to 16th, so public debate is being held in seven or eight places in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So it's up to 16. The 22nd meeting is scheduled, these are the pre-Blessed days when the hosts and foreigners and the state and the head of state, the president of the presidency, etc. I don't know how that's gonna fit in at all. So this is where you take care of one material dimension, which is good. But it would be good to take a little care of this other one, uh, what I'm talking about. It's impractical and it's not good to say between the 20th and the 24th when Christmas Eve is before Christmas 25th held any sessions. So we've talked about this on several occasions, we've said that we're even avoiding Friday for the reasons of the session's interruption, and here it seems to me that you respect this one, this one, and that once again the collegiate of both homes see the possibility of a possible shift of this, of moving this working session of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5216	We thought, look at Filipović, we knew about this one work in the period from 6th to 16th. We talked about it somewhere this morning, so we wanted it to end somewhere, so if we wanted it somewhere since 19th, then this, so we thought the truth 21. We're due to this joint session that can't be delayed, which has to be the way it's supposed to be, but whether it's 16, whether it's 21 or not, we kind of didn't care. We wanted to use it, tie it up. But here's what happened. I think we'll try to move it one more time with our colleagues from the House of Representatives. I'd love it if we could. And I respect it, and I'd like all of our coworkers to spend the holidays together, but here's the situation, I've just given you one situation as it is. And, I don't, she came, here during the session, I'll try to talk more, see if anything can be fixed, but if she can't, I have no other solution. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5217	So, I'll take it very briefly. The sitting is scheduled for the 20th joint anyway. Why in front of a joint session of both homes is not scheduled for the House of Representatives, and the next day together, so the same costs are whether 20 or 21 or 19 and 20. And then we could sit down after the joint session and do our part of the job and do our 20th. So, materially equal
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5218	Joint session, please nice, joint session is a ceremony in which the Presidency participates and will have something, please nice and will have something about 600 officials and it should have been all agreed and I in that part of that organizer and the selection of that date, Great, Haso, I'll try everything and what if we don't? Well, I'll try.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5220	Try for real, let them go 20 me 21.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-11-28-0.u5221	Here, we'll try and see. What if I don't make it? Filipović, you're my friend, I know I cut you with this information, you'll forgive me and we'll say good-bye, thank you, happy trip. The session ended at 4:40 p.m.
