ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20897	Gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 71st session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I welcome all present MPs and guests, as well as representatives of the media. In addition to the MPs at the session, our regular guests and representatives of international organisations who expressed interest in monitoring the work of this house and all those present, I warmly welcome them. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know on November 27th of this year, our distinguished colleague, Dr. Abdulah Nakaš. This is the first meeting of the House after the death of the MPs, and I invite you to pay our respects to our distinguished colleague Dr. Nakashu. May he have eternal glory, and thank you! According to the Service report, I agree that the meetings are attended by 32 MPs. The absence was justified by Mr. Šefik Džaferović, Mr. Beriz Belkić, Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, due to participation in constitutional change talks and Selim Bešlagić for health reasons. The others did not justify their absence, which means we expect them to join at this session. In that sense, I find that the session has a quorum for full, full work and decision-making. Before we move to work, I would like to inform you that we will have, within the College, agreed that we will have a break between two and three now, which will be dedicated to the completion of this year's work in which MPs will also congratulate each other on each other's New Year's and Christmas and Bayram holidays, and it will be an opportunity for us to look again together at the year behind us and to analyse whether we could have been better, faster and more successful. So please be present between 2 and 3 on that one modest cocktail. Another brief note. On which you received one request for the completion of the survey questionnaire concerning one research project, so here are the assistants and I ask the MPs to come out to meet and the researchers and to fill this questionnaire at the very beginning of this session. You ladies and gentlemen have received a draft agenda in the invitation to the session. From phone calls to sessions took a little while longer, so they gained conditions to place some more materials on the agenda. 2 Therefore, we have an updated agenda that the College has proposed and has accepted the Expansive College of this House. You have received an updated agenda with marked points that have been subsequently included. The updated agenda was agreed at the House College session in an extended composition, held this morning, before the beginning of the session of this house. For the sake of the public, I will say that the following points 1 have been implemented in the draft agenda. Request of MP Zlatko Lagumdžija to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act on Value Added Tax under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 2. The request of MEP Joza Križanović for consideration of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 3. The request of MPs Joza Križanović, Zlatko Lagumdžija and selo Bešlagić to consider the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax by Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 4. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Amendments and Supplements Bill on the Security Intelligence Agency of BiH by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Procurement, first reading, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 6. Appointment by three members of the Joint Commission in order to reach an agreement on the identical text under (a) Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and Rules of Procedure of the People's House of Common Provisions, (b) Law amending and supplementing the Law on Human Rights of BiH, (c) Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Taxes, 7. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the term of office of MPs in the House of Representatives under (a) Abdulahu Nakaš for his death and (b) Seadi Palavrić for his election as Judge of the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 8. Proposal for a close-up of counterpart Muhamed Moranjkić regarding concession agreements in Bosnia and Herzegovina 9. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on International Railway Transport and the Development Credit Agreement, a project to strengthen the health sector between BiH and the international Association for Development. In the last college, we also agreed to take down the review report from today's session, which was 21 as I recall the agenda point. The reason why the Enlarged College did so is to consider these reports seriously so that the remarks and suggestions that MPs in the debate would be considered. In fact, it is impossible for 41 reports to be held if there is a fundamental debate on the evaluation of the Extended College to take place at only one session and we have concluded that at each next session we are considering 10 reports in the way they arrived at the Finance and Budget Commission. 3 We have also concluded jointly that it is not good for the Commission for Finance and Budget to receive a package of reports for the previous year, but we are asking the Finance and Budget Commission to succeed when it receives a report to pass them through in a parliamentary debate so that we can conduct a quality debate. I also need to inform you that the College will, in one conclusion, address the College in the enlarged Council of Ministers, in which we will look for a decadent report on the new situation concerning the permit, therefore, or the change of the tariff system for imports of meat and meat processing, which is estimated to have been done to producers and carnivores in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So these would be these brief notes and changes to the agenda proposed by the College and confirmed by the College in the extended composition. We also agreed that, in the meantime, we will work intensively today to have club presidents take this to the club's account so that there are no too many demands today to expand the agenda, although of course we cannot avoid it or deny anyone the right to propose a new agenda point. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Who's answering for a word? Dr. Crescent. Tihomir Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20898	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear guests, I have asked at the enlarged college to appreciate that we have a new agenda today, but I understand the reasons we heard there. However, I would like to propose to supplement the agenda, which is - the Commission's Report on Human Rights, Migration, Refugees and Asylum on the presentation of the Association of Citizens, Fired Workers from the Republic of Croatia Ugor, together with the fact that our public knows and that the Commission has done its job, in so far as MPs have not received a report from the Commission today. I believe that if we put this item on the agenda before, after the law, it means point 18 that comes, or perhaps eventually, if the agenda is needed, although this issue of life issues of our citizens deserves to be more ranked, but in any case, I think it will be enough time for the Commission, if it has finished, to deliver its opinion, its report with a proposal for conclusions that these people would not suffer for so long, since they have been looking for a sadification for what they have under the law and based on working legal status in our neighbouring country. Here I propose this item of the agenda, and I would ask the MPs to take that into account and make a positive statement, since it is said about the life issues of tens of thousands of our workers who have worked in the neighbouring country of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20899	Thank you, Dr. President. Gligor. I must say that the debate that we had in the framework of the Expansive College is precisely due to the seriousness of the agenda point, it has been requested that, or 4 have passed the proposals for it to be at the next session because the MPs did not receive reports from the commission. It is a serious problem, and it is not a matter of superficial debates that should be conducted here, but that MPs should prepare for this part of the agenda. Therefore, we prayed for understanding, so aware of the seriousness of this problem and these problems, so that was the only reason why we had no consensus in the College today, because none of the MPs received a report and the commission conclusions. Mr. Adem Huskić came forward for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20900	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues, I would also have a proposal to amend, expand the agenda, although I do not belong to those MPs who ask for it at all costs, so I do not think, I do not insist that it be at all costs, but I believe that we should put on the agenda the following: I, somewhere at the end of the seventh month, asked the Council of Ministers and the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which concerned building a bridge in Peljesac that is building the Republic of Croatia. Three months after the question was asked, the Council of Ministers identified the answer to the question so that sometime during 11, in fact the 7.11. came to Parliament. Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency has not answered that question for reasons that are unknown to me, or I can't reach, I think, I suppose, a consensus or think it doesn't matter which is equally sad both. Meanwhile, the issue received a lot of media attention in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also in the Republic of Croatia, so that Croatian President Mesić was dealing with the issue in some way. Since the issue is quite significant, I suggest that we put the agenda - Information from the Council of Ministers on the activities they have carried out to protect the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina if they are at risk of open.../sea access?/ I also think someone from the Bureau should say if they intend to do something about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20901	Thank you. I would only ask the title of the agenda points to deliver to me both you and my colleague Gligorić so that we can read it decadently afterwards. Okay. Thank you very much. A colleague, Đedović. A false quote relating to the agenda point. He was looking for a agenda point. Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20902	In fact, Mr. Huskić said Mesić is the Croatian president. Mesić, Sjtepan Mesić is the president of the Republic of Croatia. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20903	Thank you. So Đedović's colleague answered the word, and Potočnik's colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20904	I am familiar with the conclusion of the College on suspending the application of zero customs rates for certain agricultural products from Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro. However, according to the information I have, if it's correct, and I believe that the matter is changing from 1.1 next year. Given the plan of our session and conclusion, while the Council of Ministers conducts an analysis, while we get an analysis, time passes. And then we open up a market disturbance space. I think that this should be determined today, at least in the form of the House's conclusion that the Council of Ministers undertakes that, by respecting the timings, measures should be taken to protect these, that group of agricultural products. I think we know what they're talking about after 1.1. For this reason, I propose, and the law, i.e. free trade agreements with Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro, Article 13, gives us such an opportunity and I think we should use it to protect those who produce in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20905	Thank you. Mladen Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20906	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to suggest one conclusion, and the conclusion is that Parliament requires the Assembly of the relevant institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to protect the area of Visocica at the High to consolidate the existence of the pyramid, i.e. the fact of the situation. Explanation. This is necessary from caution to possible abuses, and the importance of this site under the above assumption could be of strategic importance for the development of tourism in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20907	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Here you go. Jahić Elmir.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20908	Here's not doing this electronics, so I had to use my hands. Namely, according to the Parliament's conclusion that the introduction of a VAT which should start from 1.1 next year, must be followed by appropriate social programmes. 6 I believe that our Parliament, or our home, must take this conclusion seriously because the introduction of VAT is therefore closely linked to the introduction of social programmes. It should therefore be noted that social programs are made up. So that's one thing. The second thing is that we have a statement from the Direct Taxation Authority, that this administration is ready to introduce a VAT from 1.1 next year. However, we have the condition that entity budgets have not been adopted. As you are familiar with entities, or enterite governments, parliaments are obliged to form a social programme that would monitor and address the potential negative consequences of socially endangered categories due to the introduction of VAT. So, I believe that we should make one appeal, and in this context, the SDA proposes a resolution to this Parliament, so a resolution where we would ask, where the House of Representatives of Parliament would ask entity parliaments and entity governments, or the Government and Parliament of the Brcko District, to adopt budgets by the new year so that social programmes from the New Year's Eve could be implemented, so together with the introduction of the VAT. I'm also going to say that this has an excuse, if we do everything by the new year. Otherwise, there were proposals that this resolution would go into a commission phase and that it would be later discussed. So that's why there's no need. In this way, we in fact express our commitment and consistency to the conclusions we have made and express one seriousness to those decisions, that is, the laws that we have made, that is, the conclusions that we have adopted to follow to realize these conclusions. Unfortunately, the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is such that we, from the state level, from the Council of Ministers and Parliament, can draw up and not be able to implement social programmes, but entities and lower levels of government do, but we can show one seriousness to follow those conclusions we adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20909	Thank you. Who's picking up the word? Is it a replica or a discussion, Dr. Gligorić again. Replica co-worker Gligorić, pa Živković, pa Altić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20910	I do not dispute the right to refer to this resolution, which Mr Elmir Jahić spoke of as a preface, in sum of business opportunities, but I also consider fellow MPs to say this, let's say so little hypocritically. We didn't bring a budget at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, October 15th is the deadline for the presidency to bring it in, so we can discuss it, and we're talking at entity level about how they should behave and we're giving them lessons, and at the same time we didn't do it ourselves. And that's why I think we're asking that resolution to be rejected, and of course, and if it is, then we know that we have to declare ourselves to go into the commission phase, not to apply it directly today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20911	Thank you. A colleague of Živković. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20912	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will not speak of the resolution itself, nor the reasons for the motion of this resolution. It just didn't come to the agenda at all. I just want to ask the College and ask this parliament to treat all MPs the same. Namely, you will remember that last time I submitted a resolution on defence in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it was the reason that the resolution did not come 24 hours before the start of the meeting of this house. If you're going to look at the bottom of this page, this resolution has left 21.12. That means today. She can't even be considered here for technical reasons. If we are going to treat all MPs the same, I think it would be fair for the College last time, Mr Džaferović was explicit that it could only be based on 24 hours when the material was received in the service so that the resolution could be discussed. So that's the first reason. And the second reason is that we have all of the resolutions so far, here are the MPs who witnessed going to the committee first. So the first reason should be respected, if we don't respect the first one, then at least that second reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20913	Thank you. A kolega, Altić, Miloš Jovanović. Did you ask for a replica? The replica of counterpart Jahić. Here, I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20914	First of all, I would like to remind the distinguished representative Tihomir Gligorić that the budget adopted by the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, contains social programmes, so it is not related to this issue. So we're talking about entity budgets. Secondly, we should refer to this project, not that it is a project of some ruling or opposition VAT furniture is a project and should be a project of all structures in the government in Bosnia and Herzegovina. As far as this remark is concerned, Živković, I would like to say, therefore, that it is very important whether the resolution is conditioned on time, so timed. So here we have one situation that is important to adopt entity budgets until the new year. If it goes into the commission phase, then there's no need to adopt the resolution at all. One thing. It's another thing. It's not true, then, that we didn't have a situation like this. Here was the resolution on Srebrenica we discussed the same day, because we were also conditioned on the anniversary, or ten years of genocide in Srebrenica and apropo that we had the same day. So it didn't go into the commission phase. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20915	I'd like a little patience from the MPs. To listen to each other. A colleague of Živković's replica. Just a little bit, please. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20916	I'd just like to say an incorrect allegation. I believe that this resolution about Srebrenica came and received in our service the day before. So this resolution is practically at the same level as my resolution, which was also in the time frame, because right then we were passing defense laws, and it was supposed to be considered then. However, this home decided that it could not attend the session for technical reasons. I would also ask the College and all MPs to apply ourselves to all MPs, in the face of the motions of all resolutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20917	Thank you. Dr. Petar Kunić, Dr. Gligorić. It's a replica, isn't it? Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20918	I have to replicate my colleague Jahić because he puts emphasis on social programs. We know this story in Parliament that we had when the VAT law was passed that it was then as we didn't know that entity jurisdiction, we now know, is now a matter of concern. I think it's cheap political points, because it's absolutely worked out how it's going to be done, who's going to get, how with the 2.3 marks they're giving someone, there's going to be some kind of political theater here. And finally what kind of concern it is now for entities, according to Republika Srpska, when the National Assembly adopts the conclusion and says – if there are no items, and I will not say now which in the Bosnia and Herzegovina budget that we do not support Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget. And I think that's one farce. Let people do normal jobs, don't need cheap political points.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20919	Thank you. Dr. Crescent. It's a Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20920	Thank you, Chairman. Listen, I'd like to do a differentiation here. The intention and content of this resolution. I'd like to welcome the intentions, so the budget, to suggest that the budget be passed within a reasonable legal period, but this one in some way imperative tone. A reminder, I remind you, I have very little of these words, very, very uncomfortable one attitude, because I have read a lot of these attitudes, decisions, we remind you of that and that. I'm not going to name who did it here. One resolution would therefore be acceptable to me, but different content. In addition, I think the entity governments know what their legal obligation is and they are legally responsible unless they do certain things. I think this parliament is crossing its ingenuity and entering the authority of the entity governments. The constitution defines what the 9th government is doing. Therefore, if the content were to be changed, I might find some suggestion, given the introduction of the VAT, it might be acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20921	Thank you. My kolegica Milićević, did you want a discussion, or a replica? Discussion. Then Miloš Jovanović, a colleague of Altić, and Jovanović have you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20922	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, the idea of this resolution is new to me this morning, but I see nothing at all in the sense that, given that this is today 10 days before the introduction of the VAT that the situation is that we do not still have budgets, and that we know that the planned funds are in line with the obligations undertaken by the entity governments for social programs. So that can't be disputed, when they've made a commitment they need to implement it in the budgets for next year. It's also a fact that if we don't have budgets that we're going to go with temporary funding decisions that don't involve these social programmes, then those two things can't go together and I'm afraid there's not much time. Now is the form one word less, it is being talked about, but I see nothing controversial or questionable in one resolution meaning that just in the evening of the entry into force of the VAT will remind us of what we have all committed together and why they have made a commitment, means officially at the level of the Fiscal Council and we here measure social policy, protecting the population. This is just final, and gentlemen speak, to avoid talking about the budget and the budget to treat them there let them finish it with the idea to go on temporary funding without budgets and then talk about the collapse of the socially endangered population in January, February, March, and not support an idea that says – it is necessary. It means nothing to us, we don't order anyone to do this, we just point to the need to make a budget in order to honor one item of the social population. This, if it doesn't come to the budget, means we're going to have pensions at the February level last year, that we're going to have different donations. How are we going to finance it? The VAT will give some new additional revenue. We won't be able to distribute them without a budget. On what grounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20923	Thank you. Keep going. Replica. I only ask if we can avoid the replicas of our colleague Živković. We have regular discussions. Everyone's gonna say what they're thinking. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20924	I don't have a replica, I have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please here, I'm here to discuss the resolution, to discuss whether it will come to the agenda. And I'd have a lot to say about this resolution. Mrs Ljiljana Milićević tells a political story about the resolution. Let's see if the resolution comes to the agenda first. If it comes to the agenda, we'll talk about that resolution to say who obstructs budgeting and how. Let's say we vote now. I've cited formal reasons why he can't come to the 10th agenda. If it comes to the agenda, if the majority vote, then we'll talk about the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20925	Dr. Crescent. Gligorić. Well, I hope we lock up the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20926	Yes, yes replica. Well, Mrs. Milićević says she doesn't see anything controversial. Dr. Crescent. Živković says this is a political story. I want to tell a very political story and two sentences. At the level of Republika Srpska, a political story is being created in terms of whether a new government will be formed and whether someone is a patient place of budget. Put that aside. It'll end the entity properly. That's what I'm convinced of, but here's the political story that the SDA is actually helping the SDS save itself and that it remains the government in Banja Luka. That's all that's true. It is the help and it is a political story in some other way compared to some people who work in Republika Srpska. This is kind of a little bit more subtle, but also transparent. The old allies help each other, and that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20927	Thank you. Replica co-worker Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20928	You see, what Mr. Gligorić says, I think this is a demagogy and an empty story. It's also the fact that whoever read the resolution says what the reason is. Obviously, it means that in the entity's budget drafts, they have the means to mitigate the consequences of VAT for socially endangered population categories. So normally, if it is adopted, if these budgets are not adopted, those funds will probably not be. And we talked here. Perhaps Mr Gligorić is the most appropriate tax rate that was unique, how to free some categories and how to do it for bread and milk, and when it has to be done specifically then it is a different story, then it is politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20929	Thank you. Please, Dr. Crescent. Gligor. Here, I won't forbid it, but let's take this to the adoption of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20930	Well, I know, but my story was liberating, so we could try to free this poor girl, and I was heightened in what way I think, not with two three marks, which is a question of who's going to get it. You'll get the six months and the three stamps these guys are gonna give you telling you the story of the social program. So in a diametrically, the opposite approach, I also want people from the opposition who have proposed how this issue can be resolved is the solution to the issue. And in this way, it's actually demagogy. You're talking about it, and you're not actually solving anything. The opposition proposed constructively how the issue could be resolved and I could not get past the presidency. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20931	Thank you. Here you go. Muscle. A fellow Mišić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20932	I welcome all my colleagues, the chairman, I would like to ask that we return to the agenda. This is all over the place now, and the first hour is emptying out next to each other. At four o'clock, you won't find them here in the benches. Let's go back to the agenda and see if we can adopt the resolution. We won't listen here for an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20933	Thank you. Ljiljana Milićević, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20934	Thank you. Actually, I'm replicating Mr. Živković for a reason. I was just discussing the need to put a resolution from the aspect of the programme for the socially endangered population and the fact is that we realized that the biggest blow was the first, second and third months on that population until it came to the price to form at some reasonable level. From this I support this resolution one means that it requires that we have budgets, that social programs live. So that's why I insist, or support the agenda, means the need for social programmes to start since January.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20935	The word was requested by the president of the house, Mr. Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20936	Dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, I liked not to answer for a word about this resolution, but as time goes by, I feel the need for the public to work. Nevertheless, it has been up to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina since January 1st who told a story. What is the weakness of the Bosnia and Herzegovina authorities is superficiality, and it is expressed through such resolutions. There must be responsibility of the authorities for the reform projects they are leading and introducing. You won't save anyone with resolutions. Whatever. The resolution aims to say – unless the entity governments adopt budgets and there are more social programmes, it is not wrong of the Council of Ministers. Nevertheless, it is the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who are to blame. And it's true Mr. Gligorić is right that this has worked out the love of SDS and SDA. And please be nice, so there's a procedural reason whether the resolution will go through the committee as well as everyone else, or you will support it. I don't mind your supporting her, but I assure the citizens that this is politics. Is it forbidden for the government and parliament of the RS to adopt the budget? Are they forbidden? Is it forbidden for the government and the Federation Parliament to do so? But is there more hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen, that the state parliament that has not yet received its own budget holds a person moral lesson in what is good in the interests of the citizens. 12 In October we were supposed to have a government budget on the table. And then we could tell the entities to see how it should be done. And please let's go to business. He has a party, he has the right to propose a resolution. Don't let us deal with wider debates. We'll vote, we'll see each other, of course they're not citizens, and we're not the ones who don't see why this is gonna go away, or it won't go away. And I think the requests that Republika Srpska and Vlada make here, that they better sit in Banja Luka and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20937	Replica Mr. Almir Jahić, then Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20938	Since Mr. Chairman called me both a hypocrite and in every other way, I am obliged to replicate. In fact, it is very strange when the position comes that resolutions are unnecessary, that they are actually in the function of hypocrisy when surely your political party is the bearer of the largest number of resolutions in this House. I'm sure resolutions have their place. The other thing is, I have to mention again that this is what, so as long as I'm alive and I'm in this House, there's no need for anyone to interpret what I think. There's no need at all. So what I think, either I say, or I write. So I'm doing it, I mean very clearly and precisely, and so there's no need to interpret it one way or another. That's exactly what's said here, and so it's said that we have to be consistent with what we've concluded. This parliament adopted one conclusion, a very important conclusion and we all insisted on it. I think we adopted unanimously, but that's that the introduction of VAT should follow social programs. And given that these mechanisms are not in our hands, but are at the entity level, we show seriousness and responsibility to our conclusion by asking those responsible for this, so in the social programme segment. So I'm not talking about the introduction of VAT, technical possibilities, etc. Although that's not what it's for. So we ask them to get you, to adopt budgets to implement social programs. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20939	Thank you very much, Mr. Jahić. Replication on this, Mr. Špirić, then
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20940	What I was just looking for was said by counterpart Jahić. I seek equality for my political option for both yours and everyone in this House. It's true that we've submitted a lot of resolutions, but it's true that the commission first passed. And I'm telling you that the objective of this resolution, perhaps I'm wrong, is time will show that only the Council of Ministers is amnested to work on any problems in the VAT system, and that's not good. It doesn't matter to the citizens. So I see it as a goal and I won't support it. I demand the responsibility of all the institutions of government and that is the responsibility of the state parliamentarian, responsibility at all levels for the success and failure of the project. That's enough saving. Remember the Council of Ministers' conclusions. Give us customs, give us tariffs, endangered producers, blah, blah, blah, what's the matter? We've ever received a report. 13 Here's the conclusion again today. There'll be problems from January 1st. Will there be responsibility for the exercise of power? Is someone stopping us from calling the council today to tell us if it's ready for the VAT system? Or the Council wants to say through this resolution, yeah, if they don't adopt these, we're not responsible. There's no transfer of responsibility. There isn't. The resolution cannot cover neither entity governments nor state, nor the Council of Ministers. So that's my goal, and I'm looking for the same relationship with the resolution that comes from my party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20941	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Živković, then Mr. Ćeman, then Mr. Križanović's business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20942	It is true, Mr Jahić, that the SNSD has submitted most of the resolutions in this House, and it is true that we have passed every step that you have tried to set and fall here with these resolutions, I would just like to warn the College and warn this Parliament that all MPs and all resolutions are treated the same way. If Mr. Džaferović said that the resolution was not received within 24 hours in the office, I would like to remind the College that this resolution is the same and that we are not now entering the very essence of this resolution, because there is a lot to be said about this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20943	Thank you. Who's next? Be my guest. I'm sorry. Is it a debate or a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20944	I answered, no, not your replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20945	Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20946	It's a replica to you. So here's the deal. It is true that so far we have adopted quite a number of resolutions, and it is true that as for procedural matters, they have come across this kind of approach. Some went to the board, some didn't. There were similar discussions and it just confirms that it is possible, depending on how the House decided to go either one way or another. The concrete motion for a resolution is indeed called for the conclusion of the House of Representatives, and I think it would be correct to notice the matter. It is allowed, of course, to conclude that who thinks what the motives of the one who proposes are. But I'd still like to speak to you especially in this part of it, my colleague Špirić, please be as consistent as possible. No. We just heard from you once that the issue of jurisdiction is a very important issue. This parliament, when it comes to entity budgets, can't help but seem to send this message. I'd like to, and here we are today, talking about the Constitution if we and the social problem were to find as a source in the jurisdiction of the state, and then we wouldn't solve the matter by resolution, but, of course, as you said, we would adopt the budget, so of those revenues that we're going to make to concrete categories. But unfortunately, that's not possible. And at least 14 would be correct if when you refer to jurisdiction, you do it now. It is true that in this case we are the only one who can call, regardless of what we have our fellow parties as well as you at different levels, but from the point of view of the institution, this institution is unfortunately no longer able to do at this point. I would ask that we look at this question from that angle, not really in this way that it's already trying to politicize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20947	Thank you very much, Mr. Ćeman. Again, the chairman of the House, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20948	As time goes on, I'm getting more convinced that this is going to grow into an institution to send messages. I think that's what my colleague Ćeman needs to avoid. The entity parliament may also tell us why the state MPs did not adopt the state parliament, here is the end of the year. Can't he? Well, no, so we didn't, why didn't we commit our organs to delivering the budget? How, then, do we have the right to give a morale lesson, and we have not completed a job that is our constitutional jurisdiction. Why didn't you, and now I'm going to tell you one thing, I need to be honest here. Behind this resolution is hiding exactly what I was talking about because I had a call last night, so you dragged her through the party (?). So this is what my colleague Gligorić is talking about, and don't cover it. So these disagreements about government, the preservation of authorities are the least important to citizens. For them, it is important that the VAT system function on January 1st and that any problems in the social system are covered by states or entities. But the resolution won't solve it. The resolution aims to send a message, we're from a level, but that's no use, sending a message. You see, because the VAT system can perform various stressful social situations, and it will, we are not responsible, or the Council of Ministers, I am not responsible, but entity structures are responsible. And I say it's still gonna be whoever's responsible. There should be a system of responsibility for the exercise of power. Let all governments who are unable to meet the challenge that is expected fall. Or everything's ready, so there's no need for us to have this debate. Until yesterday, we were listening, so everything's ready for the optimal functioning of the VAT model. What do you need a resolution for? These days, battles are being fought as to God's sakes will not produce any consequences. So why do you want that story if you don't want it? Let them tell others they will. That's what you think he won't do. But don't let the resolutions get in the way. I'm just against it, and that's why I'm sure you respect the procedure. And I'm sorry to have to talk like this. I'm not a man who was on average informed, but well-informed.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20949	Please, it is now time for business intervention, business intervention announced and Mr. Jovanović then.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20950	First of all, I would like to say that I have a very serious objection to the work of the session so far. For a motion for a resolution that should be included possibly today in the agenda of this session we have made one general debate on very serious issues. 15 I ask you to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to give to the vote who is in favour of putting the resolution on the agenda and unless there is support for today's inclusion in the agenda going regularly into the committee debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20951	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20952	I'll tell you something else. I really don't have the nerve to listen to this anymore. We here present a serious observation of political options now on very large political problems here. There's no reason for that. If this replica continues and the debate continues, I will ask for a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20953	I thank my colleague Križanović. Here's what I'm going to do to stop the replica. Here you go, pal Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20954	Mr. Špirić, I have a replica of your exposure. And precisely because of the public I want to say, if the SDA wants to pass the RS budget, the SDA has so many MPs in the National Assembly of the RS that it can support that budget. So that story now means there's no need to write a resolution. It is enough to tell your MPs to vote for the RS budget and that budget will pass. So it's the opposite of your story.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20955	That's enough for them, and it's not for you, my Miloše. I'm sorry. Let's move on with the debate. Col. Altić goes with the debate, no more replicas. Here you go, pal Altić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20956	Dear Presidency, dear colleagues and colleagues, I feel the need in front of the Mixed Club of MPs to welcome the efforts of our secretariat, lately in terms of calling for meetings, to prepare materials, and especially their efforts in the organisational and informational sense to create more favourable conditions for us to work in this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20957	Thank you. You see, there are nice words for us. Thank you, colleague Altić. For all of us, of course. Jovanović Miloš, is there a debate or is it over? Done. Dr. Crescent. Duraković, you asked for a word. Dr. Crescent. Nijaz Duraković did you ask for a word? No, I don't. Dr. Crescent. Sead Avdić. Here you go. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20958	Ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, colleagues and fellow MPs, I must really point out that this question has a feeling that this is a sort of pre-election campaign position in October 2006. At a bad time we started both a simple and a bad topic to start such a pre-election campaign. And that means the parliamentary majority and this parliament as a whole, people are responsible for the application of the VAT Act on 1 January 2006. I asked for an extended college and prepared the proposal simply and asked the Council of Ministers and Parliament to schedule a thematic session on how far the Council of Ministers is prepared, how many administrations and directors, i.e. the management of the VAT Directorate, are ready to begin with the 1st January application of the VAT Act. And in this context it is the real concern and the only possible way to simply discuss this issue in the institutions of the system. So the resolution really doesn't solve anything, it won't help ordinary people if it's for one-time political use, it's sad. In that sense, I ask that it simply be suspended, to be put to the vote, and I will submit my proposal on parliamentary matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20959	I thank you for coming forward about the agenda. Niko. We're closing the debate. We're going to a plea. Thank you all for taking part in the debate. We're going as requested as they came. Kola Gligorić asked for a agenda item – Report by the Commission on Human Rights of Immigration, Refugees and Asylum on the presentation of the Association of Citizens, Fired Workers from the Republic of Croatia Ugor, Ugor Association. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Who's in favor of that being a part of the agenda? - For 21, against 9, it has a majority and a total and entity. So this becomes, therefore, the 29th point of the agenda, right. Let's move on. So, Adem Huskić, as far as I can see, is asking for information from the Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency regarding the construction of the Peljesac Peninsula bridge and its impact on BiH's open sea approach. I'd beg myself, if you see, we can have a agenda point, but if the Council of Ministers isn't ready today to give the information, I'm afraid. Maybe it's better Huskić we run for next session for our council to prepare for us. It'll be more effective. I don't mind. Do you agree? It can pass the agenda, it's not disputed. I don't see any reason to be against it, but if the Council doesn't have an answer, there's no written answer, we didn't do the job. So I ask my colleague Huskić, if he agrees for the next session to forward this to the Council of Ministers, so let us agree to forward it to the Council of Ministers to prepare an answer to this. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20960	Let me tell you, Mr. Chairman, I don't mind considering it at the next session, but we have very bad experience, myself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20961	I agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20962	Because I suggested one item of the agenda for the Council of Ministers to provide information on the state of the economy and agriculture, etc. There's one three four months I was supposed to do for the next, so nothing's done yet. I'm afraid that information will never come, but here's what I'll take for the next one.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20963	So, the conclusion is to oblige the Council of Ministers to until the next session to give us this information to be the point of the agenda. That's more effective. The presidency. Here's the presidency. I thank my colleague Huskić. I think it's more effective to get information so we can discuss it. The third request was Ibrahim Đedović – the conclusion of the House which obliges the Council of Ministers to make a decision on the takeover in a timely manner, suspending the application of a zero customs rate under a free trade agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia, Serbia-Montenegro on certain goods, no, no, originating in those countries. Well, then there's one tariff number, so. Please don't let us, as Parliament, address the Council of Ministers, with a sentence we understand each other. Is this enough to go to the Council of Ministers and are we done? That's all I'm asking, and today we had it at the College. But you heard the conclusion. Prepare to plead. Who's in? So the point of the agenda is to discuss this conclusion. Vote now.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20964	You didn't give the signal in time.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20965	Please, let's have a nice re-election. Prepare to vote. Vote now. You vote for this to be a part of the agenda, this conclusion. 18 Please read the conclusion of Mr Ibrahim Đedović, just a little, please slowly, patience. We don't need to be hasty, because when we address the Council of Ministers, we need to be clear because we're looking for clear answers. The conclusion is - all that is imports, the conclusion is, that the House concludes that the Council of Ministers is obliged to make a decision in due time to suspend the application of a zero customs rate under the free trade agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia, Serbia-Montenegro on certain goods originating in those countries, and 02071 and five points and agricultural products. That's your conclusion. Stand by. We had a discussion. Vinko Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20966	We can't do that. Let's make it go away. Someone read me 07 withdrawals through 01. What are you guys making of us? If that's the point of passing without us knowing anything then
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20967	This is a proposal from the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20968	I'm asking for a break for 15 minutes let that conclusion take place here.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20969	Time out for 15 minutes. I'm just asking to be in the O.R. in time. Gentlemen, the word was also asked for a break from the MP, honourable MP from counterpart Vinko Zorić. [[PAUZA]] Is there a need for your colleague Zorić to explain? We can keep working. Have you got a chance to look at all the conclusions? They're printed. So, prepare to vote on the conclusion of counterpart Ibrahim Đedović, who you received in writing. Is there a need for Đedović to, did you ask for a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20970	I need an explanation in a few sentences to say before the plea.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20971	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20972	It is, in fact, the fact that some interpretations in 1.1 stop those protective measures on imports of milk and those of meat processed from neighbouring countries. And the situation is, I'm going to say through an example in the Un-San canton of the Milky Way, as the biggest milkman who doesn't know what 19 will do with the milk, no ransom, peasants spill it out and choke on the fund. By abolishing these measures, we're making things worse. So the essence of this message, or this conclusion of ours, is that these measures remain in force and, of course, new mechanisms are being found to protect these people who produce them. I also spoke to Mr. Minister, if you feel the need before the vote and he is willing, although here I see that he has now come out, but to say a few words about it. Here I hope this is enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20973	Thank you. You have, I will read the conclusion – so the Council of Ministers undertakes to make a decision in due time to suspend the application of a zero customs rate on the free trade agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro on certain goods originating in those countries for the following product lists and listed tariff numbers. No need, there's a lot of numbers to read. It'll be in addition. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - So for 25, 16 from the Federation, 9 from RS, 4 against, 3 abstentions. This conclusion has been adopted, so there will be no agenda point, but here it is adopted as a conclusion. That's right. We move to the fourth request, this is Mr. Mladen Potočnik's request, he suggests a conclusion, a proposal for a conclusion. You have it with you, I will read it - Parliamentary Assembly of Requests from the relevant institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to protect the area of Visocica, at the High to determine the existence of a pyramid, i.e. the fact of the situation with reason. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - for 21.14 from the Federation, 7 from the RS, against no, abstention 7. So this conclusion has been adopted. There will be no agenda. And we move on to the final statement that is – the resolution of the SDA Club. We are now pleading whether to refer to the committee in charge. Prepare to vote. Please. It's business, it has to be asked, does the resolution go to the committee? If he doesn't go to the competent commission, he becomes immediately subject to debate. Yeah, yeah. Prepare to vote. Who's in favour of sending the relevant resolution to the competent commission? Prepare to vote. Vote now. - So for 14, 7 Federation, 7 RS. It doesn't have most of the total, it doesn't have the entity. So it's going to the agenda. It'll be the last item of the agenda. 20 Ladies and gentlemen, we have exhausted the plea and adopted the next DAY RED 1. A record from the 70th session, and, I apologize to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, forgive my mistake, Mr Adnan Terzić asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20974	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the session, I was informed that the chairman spoke about some amendments to the VAT law given by the Council of Ministers. Are they given, withdrawn, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20975	Who told you that? Niko said anything about amendments. I ask you, when you are informed, to be well informed. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20976	Amendments and additions to the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20977	No, nobody said anything about that. The Council of Ministers didn't mention that. The Council of Ministers, no one mentioned. They misinformed you, so please, or attend, or.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20978	I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20979	But no one was mentioned in the Council of Ministers' hearing. I know what this is about and these are the Council of Ministers' amendments to the VAT Act. No Niko mentioned them. Niko one mentioned them, please. I beg you, don't, if I may ask you not to open that crack, because we've adopted the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20980	...just to say the position of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20981	There's no need when he's not in the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20982	The Council of Ministers, we must abide by the Law on indirect taxation. We have a request to amend and supplement the law in one member, but for him we still do not have a position 21 of the Administration for indirect taxation. We asked for an attitude. We do not have the position of the Board of Direct Taxation, and therefore today on your benches, it is not, and I would ask MPs to act individually as the Council of Ministers and each MP on this procedure in the same way. So no one argues with the MPs that any law that regulates the tax or customs policy is making amendments. But to vote on them and make a statement is required under the law that you have adopted, a statement is needed by the Administration for indirect taxation. I know that today you have several amendments and amendments, motions to amend the law, and I ask you to finally adopt it once as a normal legally binding practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20983	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers, of course there was no debate, no one mentioned. Please, the team that serves you well informs you, are not good misinformation and I ask that the session be monitored and I respect that the chairman can contact you when he asks for a word. But there must also be a procedure when the Council of Ministers delivers the law, or amendments to the law in the procedure in the same way should be withdrawn if it withdraws it. And it cannot be done in a diversified way to be withdrawn from the office, but to address Parliament in writing. So it's just not about your discussion, it's about knowing. So let's go, we've adopted the next day's order one. A record from the 70th session, and, I apologize to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, forgive my mistake, Mr Adnan Terzić asked for a word. Here you go. 1. Journal of the 70th House of Representatives, 2. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. Request by the Administrative Commission to consider the draft law supplementing the State Service Act in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 4. Request of MP Zlatko Lagumdžija to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act on Value Added Tax under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 5. The request of MEP Joza Križanović for consideration of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 6. The request of MPs Joza Križanović, Zlatko Lagumdžija and selo Bešlagić to consider the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax by Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 7. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Amendments and Supplements Bill on the Security Intelligence Agency of BiH by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the request of MP Milorad Živković to consider the draft law amending the Law on Postage of BiH by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 9. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the Constitutional and Legal Commission Report on the Proposal for a Framework Law on Higher Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina (Proposer of the Law, Mr Momčilo Novaković), 22 10. Proposal for a law implementing the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons and Destroying (First Reading), 11. Proposal for a law on the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 12. Proposal for a Law on Direct Taxation Administration (first reading), 13. Proposal for a law on the protection of personal data (first reading), 14. A Proposal for a Law on Consumer Protection of Bosnia and Herzegovina (First Reading), 5 / 15 Proposal for a law amending the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 16. Proposal for a law of Bosnia and Herzegovina on pardon (first reading), 17. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Procurement of BiH, first reading, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 18. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Procurement of BiH with the Commission's Report on Finance and Budget, Proposer of the Law, MP Muhamed Moranjkić, 19. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Public TV Service Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 20. Report by the Joint Commission on an attempt to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on the Roads to BiH, 21. Report by the ad hoc commission on the selection and appointment of the procedure for proposing members of the BiH Election Commission from the order of the Serbian, Bosniak and Croatian people, 22. Information on the state of completion of the BiH State Border Service and internal control, 23. Proposal for a candidate for members of the Office for Appeals, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, 24. Appointment by three members of the Joint Commission in order to reach an agreement on the identical text under (a) Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and Rules of Procedure of the People's House of Common Provisions, (b) Law amending and supplementing the Law on Human Rights of BiH, (c) Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Taxes, 25. Proposal for a decision establishing the termination of the term of office of Members of the House of Representatives under a) Dr. Abdulahu Nakašu and b) Seadi Palavrić 26. Giving consent to ratification a) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Korea on the loan of the Fund for Economic Development Co-operation and the Arrangement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Korea on the loan of the Economic Development Co-operation Fund, b) Memorandum between the Government of the Russian Federation and the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, the Government of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the alignment of mutual financial markets in relation to the settlement of accounts from the trade in goods between the former Soviet Union and the former SFRY, c) Protikola on the Amending of the Convention on International Railway Transport, d) Agreement on the Development Credit Project on the strengthening of the health sector between BiH and the International Association for Development, 27. Muhamed Moranjkić's proposal for a conclusion on concession agreements in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 28. Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina Security Intelligence Agency activities for the period from 01.06 to 31.12. 2004 – pov. material. 23 29. Report by the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum on the presentation of the Association of Citizens, Fired Workers from the Republic of Croatia's Ugor Association and Under 30. Declaration by the SDA MPs' club. So we ended the adoption of the agenda. Moving to the first item of the agenda, that's ad.1. A record from the 70th House of Representatives session received a record from the 70th session of the House. You subsequently received an update of the minutes, as the error was dropped, which was adopted in the context of the 6th point of the review of the Amendment Law and the additions of the Law on Citizenship of BiH. I'm opening a discussion on the record. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20984	I just asked, I asked for a break to explain something to myself. But now I'm completely confused. Ibrahim Đedović had a proposal to enter into the agenda and he delivered the conclusion to us and now I don't see that conclusion in the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20985	We've adopted the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20986	As the previous thing adopted the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20987	Yeah, in the agenda debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20988	Who said we were voting on a conclusion or an inclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20989	On the conclusion
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20990	Which part of the agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20991	Discussions on the agenda, since there have been cases like this so far, Vinko. Maybe you didn't get it. I'm sorry, but. The same was true of the proposal for the conclusion of a fellow Potočnik. It's not the agenda, it's the working conclusion 24.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20992	I don't think there's a conclusion about something that's not about the agenda at all. How we're going to adopt a conclusion, and it's not about the agenda. There's nothing on the agenda about this.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20993	No, unfortunately it's not the first time.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20994	I think about the debate on the agenda that it can be concluded that the next time on the agenda will be something, but not that such an important thing, about the debate on the agenda, will be adopted as a conclusion. It's for me, I don't know. I respect most of it and it would have gone the same way if we'd put it as a agenda point, but someone's obviously in a hurry to call those who called them as I did on the phone, and I won't, and I won't. Tell those who called you on the phone that you did. I'm not. There you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20995	I thank my colleague Zorić. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening a debate on the record. Who's answering for a word? No one's answering, and I'm sorry to bother you. Huskić
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20996	The right moment, as far as the record is concerned, I have no objections except
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20997	Please discuss the minutes. We're voting on the record.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20998	I don't know at what point Mr. Chairman, last time it was concluded that until the next session, which is this one to make information about what the conclusions of this house are respected and which are not. It's not done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u20999	Who's on the agenda for the debate? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote on the minutes of the 70th session. Vote now. So I realize that with 31 votes for, 1 against, and no one abstentions, we adopted the minutes from the 70th session of the House of Representatives and thus obtained the conditions to move on to the second item of the agenda, which is Ad2. MPs' questions and answers For this session, we received answers from the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina to Beriz Belkić's question at the 70th session. 25 From the Council of Ministers to the question of Ivo Lozančić, set at 65th session. From the Kolegijum of this home, MP Jozo Križanović received an answer to the question asked at the 70th session. The Communications Regulatory Agency informed me that it received the contents of the issue of Filip Andrić, which was asked at the 70th session and that it would be considered to be an objection and that Mr Andrić would be informed of the results of the investigation as the objector. Any comments on the answers received? No, please, those are comments on the answers received, right? kolega Lozančić, Križanović, and Sead Avdić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21000	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I have been given the answer and I am partially satisfied with the answer to the asked question, especially in the opening section where it is said that four sublaws of the act have been adopted which in some way would regulate and assist the implementation of the law but I am not satisfied in the further course, especially in cooperation with the Entiets and that no sublegal act has been adopted that will further clarify the appeal procedure for the choice of the most favourable one, the bidder, since this is one of the major problems, we should have with these 4 sublegal acts that we have this one too. In some ways, they would then implement more, they would more quickly implement a more quality law that has a lot of inadequacy and will have to suffer, larger and in the proposal to amend and supplement the law. And I'm not happy with the conclusion where he is said to be in the package, in the chapter of the Stabilisation and Association Process negotiations, so he will most likely be implemented as a reform. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21001	Thank you. A colleague of Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21002	I have received a response from the College of our House regarding the adopted initiative in this House that the House of Representatives is forming a committee or commission that would be tasked with carrying out the selection procedure for Bosnia and Herzegovina's anthem. In response, the College said, that the College had taken the view that the Council of Ministers formed a special commission to implement this procedure. You see, I asked the Council of Ministers two years ago with a parliamentary question, a Council of Ministers' statement on whether he was going to do something about choosing the text of the anthem. And just at a time when this house was making such an initiative, therefore a decision to support the establishment of a committee, the Council of Ministers' response arrived that they too felt that Parliament should form a group that would implement it. Now, our college thinks it should be done by the Council of Ministers. So I can't possibly be satisfied with the answer because there's nothing really going on here to realize this House's decision. I don't know anything from this, except that the position of the College is to do so by the Council of Ministers. So I would ask that something be done here in particular, I have been proposing a concrete proposal and I cannot be satisfied with the answer, I will repeat it at the next session, I think it deserves this particular action, the concrete formation of a particular body that should be implemented in accordance with the conclusion of this House. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21003	Thank you. I'll try if I can explain. Of course, the position of the College is that, we have addressed the Council of Ministers, to form a commission to call an an anthem tender for BiH, so the three of us from the Parliamentary Assembly representatives, therefore the House of Representatives, because we appreciate that the Assembly does not have the capacity to end it itself, that it is a serious and extensive job. Here, that's how we thought we could get rid of it, and we, on behalf of the College, have already addressed the Council of Ministers, in this way, to form a committee that can deal with the issue of tendering and selecting the best anthem. Dr. Avdić called to ask a new question, because there are no more comments, so Dr. Kunić,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21004	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, I want to do so in the form of an initiative, I have already told the enlarged College, meaning that the start of the application of the Law on Value Added Tax, the Law of Strategic Interest for BiH, the most significant economic reform in every country, requires continuity of care, I would say to the BiH Parliament in the face of the expected problems in implementing this law, particularly possible negative reflections on social security and the standard of ordinary people. In this respect, it is necessary to organise a thematic session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly meeting where the Council of Ministers and the Administration and Management of the Direct Taxation Directorate would inform Parliament of the measures and procedures of the implementation of this law to social programmes, all with a view to the start of the application of this law, its implementation being primarily consistently guided, for the benefit of ordinary people who, I would say today in the psychoses of fear and with great uncertainty, expect the application of this legislative project to begin. If this is not possible in the next week, as probably not possible, I would ask the College to actually organise it during January 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21005	Thank you. Dr. Kunić,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21006	Thank you, Mr President, I would like to remind you that this Parliament has reached a single conclusion with one vote of abstention, that Parliament's sessions are being transferred through the Public Service. The second time I ask the question, now the chairman, the others are gone, what has been done in the meantime to effect this conclusion of Parliament? Otherwise, Parliament degrades its own value, its own not to say any power. I am aware of the fact that some do not care to pass on the meetings of the House of Representatives, but if the decision has been made then it must be carried out, and the other members of the College are also in charge of the chair. So I would ask that what has been done, what has been done, and who is to prevent such an opportunity be answered. So who is it that prevents such a possibility? What is the higher policy that is being conducted outside the framework of this Parliament, that it does not allow the sessions of Parliament's House of Representatives to be transferred, and is it very important that I think about it too, will 27 pay the monthly fee, what is paid for the Public Service? And is that one fact that other citizens will somehow not pay that fee? I would therefore like Parliament and its leadership to be much more serious in this regard. So it is not only that decision but it is a series of other decisions that have been made in this House and have never been realised, and leadership has never explained why this has not been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21007	Thank you. Dušanka Majkić asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21008	I refer the question to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the competent ministry. When will the BiH Parliamentary Assembly receive a report on the spending of 2 million marks of funds from budgets, from the BiH institutions' budget used for the Stari Mostar Bridge event, as well as justifying documentation that proves the use of these Wednesdays under one? And, two, the second question relating to the Mostar Investment Conference, according to the following, how much was Mostar's investment conference, and on what basis did the Ministry of Finance and Treasury pay close to a million makraks, for which purpose, and how is the bookkeeping of the assets obtained from the BiH budget? I'd like the answer if the minzitarian could, yes, to this occasion and I'll certainly look for it in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21009	Thank you. Dr. Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21010	I intend to place this in the form of parliamentary initiatives by the Council of Ministers, the BiH Presidency and the Office of the High Representative. I would like to ask that these titles be delivered to this Parliament on the issue of the use or usurpation of the city stadium in Mostar. I believe that this is not only a sporty but also an eminent political issue that is deeply disrupting national and political relations in Mostar, as well as throughout the Federation and BiH. Namely, the town stadium under the White Brieg in Mostar was built with the means of all the citizens of Mostar as well as the means of self-dependence and served to maintain all sports events, athletic rallys, international matches and the like. From his construction until 1992, this stadium was mostly used by the football club Velez, not counting wartime, the FK Velez is from '95 until today, simply expelled from that stadium, his archives of signs, cups, etc. The photos, everything was destroyed and it was impossible for him to use that stadium at all. That stadium since the war on here, used exclusively by the football club Zrinski. For the past 10 years, there have been dozens of initiatives to allow Velež to return to the city stadium and make it a common good for the whole of Mostar, Herzegovina and the whole of BiH. Mostar citizens, of course, don't mind that stadium being used by the NK Zrinski, as well as other sports clubs. On the contrary, it would be through sport and joint use of 28 city stadiums that would ensure faster unification of the city of Mostar, strengthen community, co-existence and overall political and national relations both in Mostar, the Federation of BiH and throughout BiH. It is simply not just my opinion, but the opinion of most BiH citizens, it is an inadmissible and illegal usurpation approved by illegal and illegal authorities at the time, so-called Herceg Bosnia. I therefore ask that Parliament's Assembly be fully informed of who today is blocking Velez's return to the stadium, who, and on what grounds today, is obstructing the legitimate initiative and in particular, what will be done to change this situation urgently and that the Velez, who was formed as a Workers' Sports Club, was further formed in 1922, returned to his town and to his stadium, meaning, of course, the rights and other clubs to the common use of the common good, i.e. the city stadium? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21011	I thank Dr. Duraković. Rijeka asked for a colleague, Moranjkić, and Zorić. I'm sorry, but this is, uh, Kolega Zoriću, is there any corrections, allegations in the questions? But I think if the question is asked, whether it's a wrong quote or not, don't let us correct each other, we'll learn, no, I don't think I can forbid you if you want, but I mean, I'm afraid if we go in to correct each other, so there's an address where the question is addressed. Let him answer that he's wrong or that he's right, it doesn't matter. That we don't approve of each other, if I may ask. If you want, go ahead. It's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21012	I will.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21013	Well, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21014	So, it's an incorrect assumption that there's even an NK Zrinski, that's the first incorrect quote. Oh, ask around, I won't educate you. And the other false thing was nothing. Herceg Bosnia, was the Croatian community of Herceg Bosnia and Croatia, the Republic of Herceg Bosnia.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21015	Thank you. The word was sought by counterpart Moranjkić and if you wanted to, here is colleague Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21016	...that I'm exactly the one who figured out whether NK or something, but Zrinski's playing at that stadium,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21017	Since 1905.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21018	Yeah, but that stadium wasn't '905. You know, well, you see, then you talk nonsense and inaccuracy. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21019	You're talking nonsense.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21020	So don't, it is known that Zrinski, who is competing in the BiH League, is the only one using this Zrinski stadium, is it true?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21021	It's his.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21022	So how's his? It's a town stadium. What papers? Exactly an illegal, illegal government, the government in that stadium made a concentration camp where tens of thousands of people were stationed and were distributed from there to Gabel, Dretel, Heliodro, etc. The government gave concessions to Zrinski 101 years. By what right? On what grounds? After all, I don't ask you Zorić a question. I'm setting up for the competent institutions, so let them answer. Whether it's a correct question or not, it's a matter of me, or an assessment of the competent authorities. So, I didn't, why the controversy over my question. You ask whatever you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21023	I beg you, now, but please, I will not, as chairman, allow through parliamentary matters that we can afford each other because they are losing their meaning. Don't be angry, let me run the House. Here's a colleague of Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21024	I don't want this anymore, this is the last time, I didn't understand my colleague, I thought he was talking about a stadium in Mostar, not a stadium in Bugojn. There were concentration camps in Bugojn and I thought he was talking about a stadium in Mostar. But now I understand him that it was about NK Spark Stadium and I, uh, I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21025	Please don't let us get into this any more. kolega. Duraković, Dr. Duraković has asked the competent address, she will determine on this issue and I will not allow you in the future to replicate the questions asked unless you ask each other, and in this case it was not. A colleague, Moranjkić, asked for a word and a colleague, Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21026	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One question. I ask the Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency, when will the state protocol be formed and whose task is it to do so? 30 I note, that today, most likely uniquely in the world, one country performs its activities and functions, doing so without a single state protocol, which gives an ugly picture of this country. It is necessary to do so urgently, so let this parliamentary question be an initiative to do so. I'm also looking for a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21027	Thank you. Koelga Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21028	I have two parliamentary questions for the BiH Council of Ministers. The first question is, what about the Law on Payments in the BiH Institution? I'm going to educate this question a little bit. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives adopted a conclusion in 2005, which reads - it is up to the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver by the end of September 2005 to the parliamentary procedure of the draft law on the salaries of BiH institutions' beneficiaries. The second question is, how much is the price of oil in BiH, and how much in the Republic of Croatia, in the Republic of Slovenia, in the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, and if prices are different, what is the difference in price?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21029	Thank you. The Sopta Ruža asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21030	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I'm going to take this opportunity to ask questions, to turn to the service that prepares these materials to put a representative next to them, that we don't always have to answer in the male race, colleague. I'm asking two questions to the Council of Ministers. When can we expect the Council of Ministers to propose a law on lising and the Securities Act? In fact, the Lising Act has been announced a long time ago, that it should be finished, for us financial licking flowers, and it's in full swing, we don't have the law yet. We also took the obligation and the adoption of the Securities Act, I am talking about uniting the market. We've got two securities markets, and it would be that time these two laws came on the benches of the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21031	Thank you. My colleague Đurković Jelina.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21032	Here's the thing. I have one single question to the Council of Ministers, and this is what it says - I am renewing the business issue from the 41st session of 14 July 2004 under number one. And from the 47th session of the 2.12.2004 year in the form as stated there, and with the renewal of this issue now I ask the Council of Ministers, who is not in the interest of forming a commission on events in Sarajevo in '92. - '95. about the loss of Srbin, Hrvat, Jevrej, Bošnjak and others? Who is blocking and why has been blocking the conclusion of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes for 2 years? Please respond within the legal time limit. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21033	Thank you. My colleague Lozančić asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21034	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is about the application of the Defense Act. Since we have easily adopted the Defence Act, as the compromise has offered us by the Defence System Reform Commission, the problems will arise, i.e. with the abolition of the law from 1.1.2006 at the level of the entity. Practically, we no longer have this, the defence administrations have been abolished, defence offices that mainly carried out most of the work in resolving certain demands of citizens towards the ministries, which is regulated by other laws. I'll give just a few examples, which citizens won't be able to do if they don't get this law from 1.1 next year, for example. issuing new or supplementing convictions in the circumstances of suffering, in accordance with the Law on the Rights of Defence and members of their families, issuing certain certificates and beliefs on the holders of the highest military recognitions. It is known that such a law was passed in RS last year, and in this year, it was also adopted in the Federation, with the application of 1.1.2006. Afterwards, the issuing of a special dual-term internship which is issued for a period of war, sometime by the end of '95, then the recording of war damage, data assistance and services in search of missing persons, at the request of state and international organisations, the issuing of assurances in the resolution of dual citizenship, the issuing of various assurances of membership at the request of courts, domestic names and information of domestic and foreign diplomatic consular authorities following military service for those who were to serve a military term until then with applicable laws. We know that the BiH Law on Defence abolished the mandatory service of the military deadline, resolving the problem of the violent housing fund, serving municipal, county and entity bodies in connection with the appropriate civil protection completion, adoption of the BiH Defence Act, this adoption requires that plans and bids be put out of force, withdrawn and archived, and that all single charts are withdrawn and joined with the parent records, in accordance with the instructions for keeping military records. If we don't ensure the continuity of action, we won't have it since 1.1, so my question, for the Council of Ministers, is how do you plan to solve the above-mentioned issues, which have so far been doing defence bodies on the ground and who will be doing them in the future, what has so far been done in terms of continued work of the same? And my second oral question, for the Council of Ministers, is about the announcement of the gathering. In fact, state and federal power agencies announced with 29.12 that they were going public with a new price of electricity, which is somewhere around 20% more expensive in yielding to date. And I'm interested in the fact that the Council of Ministers, is it in negotiations with these agencies, that there is no such drastic increase? This will be an incredible blow to large consumers and households, and this is the issue currently until 29.12. So I would like one of the Council of Ministers to try to give the answer today, is it in negotiations, will it prevent such a drastic price increase and what will they do to ease the impact if such price formation occurs?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21035	Thank you. Who's next to the word? My kolegica Milićević. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21036	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question concerns the engagement of demining units in Iraq, namely our relationship and our information on this. We're witnesses, we've passed the Defense Act, a decision has been made to send a unit, and there's been an interruption of the film. We were able to find out from the information funds that people were good and healthy, so we found out they were here, and then we found out that the new unit had gone, so they left. I'd like to know if, uh, I haven't seen anyone from our armed forces control committee, or from the College of Chairmans who attended when these people were happily returned, or when they left. So in what way can we be informed about the situation, what is the condition of these people who are on a peace mission, does it mean that we are regularly informed, or are we actually in progress? Because we are witnesses when delegations from other countries parliamentarians never miss an opportunity to visit their people who are here on some missions. So it's mandatory to visit our people, to the citizens of our country, and here we are not asking to visit anyone, but at least to be informed and logical it would be that the commission, means to monitor to be invited and inform us about it and to welcome these people, or when the new unit starts to be there at least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21037	The word's got to be dr. Nikola Špirić, Chairman of the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21038	Ladies and gentlemen, since there has been no, at least I haven't seen any more reports, which doesn't mean they won't be asking MPs questions, I'm going to ask one question that they asked me, here I have this play, a group of Srbin pensioners coming back to the Federation, and they thank me, unfortunately, for asking me what they want to ask me at different addresses. So, the question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, OHR, the House of Human Rights, the BiH Presidency, the Federation government, I don't know who else to refer to on behalf of them, and here I'm going to read a part of the text that they are, and then I'm going to ask a question. We Srbin returnees from the Federation of BiH address you, please state at the next session the case of Serb national returnees who have lost almost all civil rights in the Federation. They do not have the right to receive, or to continue before the war, to regulate pensions, to have the right to health insurance, to work in state institutions and the rest, not to mention, until this is the case with the other two peoples. Our current situation does not resolve either the PIO or the Federation, or the Government or the Assembly, or even Mr. Eždaun, despite the declared right of alleged equality and equality of all three peoples. You've been talking about it for four years. It's nothing. Is this how 33 genocide is being conducted in the Federation of Serbian pensioners returning to the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Unfortunately, you know there's a House of Human Rights decision. I visited Graho's, Drvar, Glamoch, Petrovac, which are municipalities in the Federation of Lebanon Canton. On your fingers you can hardly have any returnees who have earned a pension in these municipalities who receive pensions from the Federation Pension Insurance Fund, etc. Now I ask the question, so all these addresses on behalf of these unfortunate people, whose human rights have been violated so - When will the right to receive a earned pension in the Federation of Serbs pensioners who live in the Federation and who are retired before the war be realized? When it's real, is there even one address in this country that wants me to answer them? Is there any will at least to implement the decisions of the House of Human Rights? Thank you. Who's on the phone? Here you go. Filip Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21039	I thank Mr. President, my question would be addressed to the Federal Ministry of the Interior and possibly to the Ministry of Security, which says: - How long has it been since the investigation into the murder of the late Prime Minister of the Federal Ministry of Interior, Joza Leotar, and when can we expect the perpetrators of this crime to be brought to justice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21040	Thank you. Is there anyone else to set up, or are we exhausted? There's no one here. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we're closing the agenda and we're moving on to the third item of the agenda, which is Ad.3. A request from the Administrative Commission to consider the draft law supplementing the State Service Act in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the Administrative Commission of this House, together with the Commission on Financial and Administrative Affairs, submitted a draft law supplementing the Law on State Service in BiH institutions with a request to be adopted pursuant to Article 105. Rules of Procedure. You've won the bill. I'm opening an emergency hearing. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate and prepare to vote. Who is to consider the request of the Administrative Commission to consider the draft law supplementing the State Service Act in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 105. Rules of Procedure? 34 Prepare to vote. Vote now. - So with 28 votes against no one, abstention 1, I find that we have adopted the request of the Administrative Commission to consider the draft law supplementing the State Service Act in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. We're moving on to debates. Is anyone answering for a word? Dr. Crescent. Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21041	I will, on the proposal for a law amending the law with the support of course that all employees have equal human rights, ask one question and start an initiative. I think we're one of the few countries in the world who still know the categories of regress for vacations, winters, warm meals, etc. and, of course, does not mean that any amount incurred by the team through one-off fees can not be converted into what is obtained as a salary. And I will also raise the issue of unfair treatment for employees in the public sector and in the private sector. And it should also be an initiative that perhaps the competent commission, i.e. this Parliament, to the Council of Ministers, should give an initiative to consider in co-operation with entity governments all the regulations governing this matter, because the human rights violations of ambassadors in different sectors in Bosnia and Herzegovina and how they are highlighted, with the privatisation process, they gain importance, and the public sector still records categories that draw their roots from the socialism period. So as a country that is in transition and which is heading towards the market economy, European integration we need to get used to erasing some categories and not introducing legislation. And I only speak for the law, otherwise I am to equalise the rights of all employees, but here is the initiative to equalise the rights of employees in the private and public sector in accordance with the usual European standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21042	Thank you. Since we should have held a debate on the proposal for this decision whether we will be in accordance with Article 105 or not, since we have declared ourselves in accordance with Article 105, so take or leave the principle, I urge you to plead on this proposal with the adoption of this initiative that Dr. Hadžiahmetović. I think it makes sense, but it doesn't, so we adopted Article 105's procedure. Now we can have as much discussion as you want. We cannot change that attitude, so we can refuse or accept it. So, I have a feeling that MPs should have been involved in the procedure to discuss why they did, why they didn't. Because this is a principle now. We're voting on the law. _______(?) 35 [[speaks from place, doesn't understand]] Well, we do, but I think we should have used the right when we accepted Article 105's procedure. And you know when we adopt Article 105's procedure that we can discuss for five days that it just comes down to a vote whether we're in or out. But here, I won't deny you the opportunity. Here you go, Mr. Jovanović. And I call upon the other messengers, therefore, to take care of it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21044	No, I support this law, but I think there's going to be a problem with the application. Perhaps those who have proposed to explain what serious disability and serious illness are. I mean, what I've seen means I'd like to, so when this law is applied I think there's gonna be problems. And what's the degree of disability, so logically, it would be this one, if that were said.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21045	Thank you. Sena Kapetanović, come in. Senya, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21046	Since I am the president of this committee who has proposed this, and we have had a debate about this, so it is not disputed that a colleague of Azra said that we have in a strange way regulated the rights of some employment-based institute, which is then the old problem with the public, or another part of the population that such rights cannot achieve, but the fact is that we have such laws in the institutions that all the institutions that Mrs Azra, or colleague Azra, mentioned, have so far and we can only propose that the whole law be changed. And so far, we are introducing only this institute the equalisation of the rights of employees and civil servants, i.e. MPs and employees who are regulated in the Labour Act in institutions, and this law on civil servants, the Law on the Labour of Civil Servants, so we are introducing this institute there. And the vision of what my colleague Jovanović is asking us to do is, of course, we couldn't list everything in the law, so we said that it would be treated by a sublegal act, or decisions in the decisions on the reception of MPs and MPs, so we have it regulated, the listed diseases that are and will be able to work on it, but it would not be good to have it in the law, because it would be too gross. The law never introduces all the details, but only as a right, and then something has to be arranged to make that payment, in which way it will work.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21047	Thank you. Is anyone still picking up the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. I urge you to make your statement on the vote with this initiative, Dr. Hadžiahmetović, not to vote separately, seems logical if it is possible to regulate it in one whole way. So the Council of Ministers tries to look at it and do it this way. So get ready to vote. Vote now. 36 I therefore conclude that with 25 votes for, against no one, abstention 2 we adopted the draft law supplementing the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda, that's Add.4. Request by Member of Parliament Zlatko Lagumdžija for consideration of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax under an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. On 9 December 2005, the Rules of Procedure of Kolega Lagumdžija submitted the draft Act amending and supplementing the VAT law to the parliamentary procedure with a request for an emergency procedure under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. This bill, as well as the next two SDP MPs, were forwarded to you with a letter of 9 December. I am opening a debate on the emergency procedure of Article 105. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21048	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, as you yourself have said, we are followed by an indication of three draft laws relating to the introduction of VAT. In order to sort of rationalise the approach and shorten the time around this, so that the introductory notes of these laws are somewhat shorter, I would ask on behalf of the promoter for your understanding to take a break of up to 1 hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21049	It's 1 o'clock.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21050	Until 1 o'clock. Let's start at 1:00.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21051	But can I ask you, because we have two to three breaks too.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21052	So can we move that break then? All right, all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21053	So, I cannot, of course, refuse the possibility of a break, only if it is, the House must be manifested if the break is longer than 30 minutes, Mr. Križanović. Here's a colleague, just a little bit, we'll figure it out. Here you go, colleague Živković. So we have a proposal from Mr. Križanović, asking for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21054	The Honorable Chairman, I understand the need of the SDP Representatives' Club to seek this break, probably so should Mr Lagumdžija come. But we're in the teat today, and I'd like to ask if we can get these three-point agendas that concern their demands to move a little bit, and we can keep working, and then we can use that break at two o'clock. I think that would make us operational and not stop Parliament's work. There. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21055	So please, we have a request. We need to make a statement about the request. I don't mind avoiding giving my colleague Križanović a break. So you're looking for a break by 1 o'clock as I understand it. Mr. Križanović, you're looking for a break to 1.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21056	Can we correct it like this, work now to skip these points.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21057	We can't go through business.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21058	If he can't, I'm looking for a break by 1:00.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21059	Please, it's 30 minutes. Here's to being tolerated. So at 1 o'clock we start working. Well, we'll be 30 minutes late. We can't take over 30 minutes off. Say it, say it. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21060	I only have business intervention. Mr. Chairman, I don't know if there are any conditions for us to even discuss... Article 105. A moment ago, it seems to me that the gentleman... has said that there are no conditions for something to go in the process if he doesn't have an opinion of the administration.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21061	He can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21062	If that's the opposite of the law, can we do it if there's no opinion from the administration?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21063	Mr. Terzić can't decide on our demands, but we can. I'm sorry. Break to one o'clock. Please let us be here at 1:00. At the request of the SDP Club. [[PAUZA]] Is there a need to explain the break? I'm asking my colleague Križanović, no. Ladies and gentlemen, we are on the fourth item of the agenda, it is – The request of the 38 MPs of Zlatko Lagumdžija to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax under an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. I repeat, my colleague Dr. On 9 December 2005, Lagumdžija submitted the draft amending and supplementing law on VAT with an urgent request under Article 105. This bill, as well as the following two who were submitted by SDP MPs, were forwarded to you with a letter of 9 December. I'm opening an emergency hearing. Who's answering for a word? Dr. Crescent. You're a Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21064	I thank Mr. Chairman, just to be clear, we were right here at 1:00 p.m., the SDP MPs' club-- since it was the insistence to start exactly at 1:00, but here we were alone. We were alone and Nenad was there in the moment, he was, and then you were slowly gathering and here we are. Now we have this quorum that we have. So, I want to very clearly explain why we came up with a proposal for this law on amendments and amendments to the Tax Act on additional value, and this applies to the next two points of the agenda to a lesser extent, and what we will talk about later. Namely, you are well aware of the SDP's earlier attitudes. We also believe today that the VAT next January will lead to a significant collection that will significantly affect, among other things, the most socially vulnerable category of the population. There are also other problems that will arise from those that bring down the subject matter of this law, which concerns the lack of means of trade, very quickly for a healthy economy, etc. etc. However, this law is only focused together with the next law, which is our next item of the agenda only on what the SDP proposed in the amendment phase when we had a proposal for a VAT law. Why do I mention this, Mr. Chairman? That we move exclusively in the domain of what we have already repeated several times identically, because that a member, in order to be able to come out with the bill of law, would be possible. The law must be either extremely urgent, and it must also be very clear and precise in the sense that it is clear to everyone what I'm talking about. Since we've talked so much about this, I think it's clear to everyone what this means. Why the second element of chalan 105? So clarity, it's very clear what this law is proposing. He suggests introducing a zero rate for those life-saving foods that are of wider social interest, primarily for all types of bread, milk, and all that comes from milk, including children's food, all kinds of edible oil and those products that come out of it and medicines and medical aids and aids that are now zero taxed on the market, and as of 1 January next year, there will be 17% of cattle food without concentrate as an impute to primary agricultural production. I mention all of what we've proposed now has several times been the subject of a segmental SDP, and now it's a zero rate for this. 39 In the following, the next law, which Mr Križanovć will speak of later, is practically an integral part of this, and it is practically everything that we did not cover with this law, and earlier proposals from our laws were covered, i.e. media printing, books and so on, which will be later on. What are our reasons? The reasons are the same as before. Unfortunately, however, new reasons have emerged. It is well known to you, and today I was informed by the chairman of the Council of Ministers that I had brought a new confusion in informing us of the same things, informing us further about what we knew, which is that the Council of Ministers from the press we saw, suggested an exemption for the press, books, or newspapers. The Council of Ministers has proposed an exemption and our calculations say that, with this exception, that the section proposed by the Council of Ministers is about 10% of the value of the increase in prices of the total package we talked about earlier. So the Council of Ministers suggested that, conditionally speaking of 10 marks of additional burden on each man month after January 1st after calculations made by the IMF, our speeches are unfortunately even rougher, I will remain on the IMF's data, so of the 10 marks of burden additionally per man, that on the press is 1 mark. In sobzrati of the fact that the exemption, meaning less release than a zero rate, you can practically get to accept what the Council of Ministers has proposed as an exemption, would mean that some 5% of total purchases would do so. I am not going to enter into the possible implications and motives of the Council of Ministers, or the chairman of the Council of Ministers who seems to be deciding on a war against the poor, that at least there is a media coverage of the written media, I would not want us to conclude these things immediately, but unfortunately when the law appeared that the Council of Ministers proposed an exemption for this, we realized that there were no reasons why the Council of Ministers told us not to have a zero rate. Namely, if you can exempt yourself, except the newspaper, then there's no reason not to introduce them as a zero tax rate, therefore moreover, which, I responsibly argue, the software solutions that would be needed for the exemption are easier to apply if it's zero. Naturally, if anyone wants to talk about it metrically, I suggest that the Council of Ministers send someone who understands that. So I responsibly claim that software existing, with little changes, if we make this decision today can accept a zero rate. And in the end, I just did it for practice with my graduates, 15 days ago, to make me two seminars on the subject. And it was very interesting how simple it was for them. So you can. So software restrictions are no longer present. What reported as a new moment, the High Representative woke up in the middle of the winter and said it would come to chaos on January 1st. Unfortunately, we have been saying this for a long time, but here's how he got close on January 1st, it seems everyone, including the High Representative, understood. And we also think that this whole mess that's going around the budget and connecting the budget with this doesn't satisfy us at all the story of entity budgets as a substitute for this right now for one simple reason that we don't think even if social programs were applied to stop this blow. I won't bother you about that, because you've been listening to me for too long, and a lot of people get nervous when I burn, especially when I show up. 40 We have broken this in three laws. The first law applies only, I repeat once again to bread, milk and basic provisions of life. The Council of Ministers, that parliamentary majority that is splenada discusses the press exemption, is obliged before it releases this world, the country's citizens for basic life supplies. If they have to read the papers I don't know, but if they have to eat, I know they have to. And in addition, our additional argument is who wants to see, there are MPs at the Club to see the exact signatures with a home number, a name and a last name, over 130,000 people who have stopped over, we told them not to sign what they're looking for anymore. And in the end, I would ask Mr. Chairman, once again as the desperate cry of those people who signed this to respect this so that after the new year, we would not be the ones who are responsible for the operation of the executive government both at the state level and at the entity level. I thank you and stand at my disposal, regardless of what I have now come up with discussions on constitutional reforms when they are very important. I think they're irrelevant to what's waiting for us in the next five days. These constitutional reforms can also end on 5 January. We certainly have until January 15th, but we can't wait today. On January 1st, as the High Representative would say, it will lead to chaos.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21065	Thank you, Dr. President. Lagumji. The word was answered by dr. Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21066	Thank you. My discussion won't be a classic discussion. There will be more of a question or correction of the wrong quote. I was informed by means of public information, that the Council of Ministers, i.e. the chairman, would refer to the parliamentary procedure of amending the VAT Act. As an MP, I have never received a proposal from the Council of Ministers to amend the VAT law. A colleague of Lagumdžija spoke earlier in his discussion, i.e. he called for a proposal from the chairman, so on the amendments to the VAT Act, or it was a technical error, so I just didn't get it, or no MP received a proposal from the chairman of the Council of Ministers. And therefore, I would like to ask that we focus on the debate on the proposals that have officially come into the process and that are ahead of us here. To call on something that informed us of the chairmanship of the Council of Ministers through the media, or for informing us today that he is withdrawing from the procedure, and I have never received it as an MP in the Parliamentary Assembly, I ask that this is not discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21067	Thank you. Dr. A Lagumdžija, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21068	I apologize to my colleague Hadžiahmetović, not a replica, more clarification, and I thank you for pointing that out. So, we don't think at all now that we need to treat it in 41 contexts of the proposal that existed, and now it doesn't exist and that we're practically not officially getting. I just said that the moment we saw as serious people the President of the Council of Ministers publicly coming forward with proposals to exclude the press, or newspapers and books from the VAT, that was also the argument he used, and that was actually an argument for us to present this now, because that was why he denied his argument that this had previously been rejected. And it's just like an argument. Otherwise normally, I completely agree that this proposal, which is clearly standing and the proposal of the Council of Ministers who officially does not exist for us, should not be brought into a formal relationship at all, although they are doing what they are doing.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21069	Thank you. The word is Mr. Špirić, president of the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21070	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished ministers and esteemed guests. The story of VAT and tax reform takes a long time. The public follows that we have conducted a real and fundamental debate at the time of preparing and holding local elections. At that time, we all said that the system of differentiated VAT rates was the best and most optimistic model for Bosnia and Herzegovina, then there were different possibilities to talk about until the elections passed, and then we went back to our political platforms one that thought the single VAT rate was not the best solution and others who think that the differentiated rate was a much better solution because of possible social tensions and poor standards of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And then today I was defending the principle of differentiated VAT rates, and I think that even then, today, I'm standing at this point of view that dr. The Zlatko Lagumdžija and any feeling of happiness that makes more sense would make more sense for what's called a care for an ordinary man. And today we are essentially divided into those who can think to suggest those who have to confirm a model that they're not convinced is the best. Because the international community interprets that this is the best possible model, because if the rate is differentiated, tax evasion will be increased, income collection will be reduced for reasons to which we are criminal society, we need a lot of time, but whoever is ready for crime, whatever the rate is. I agree with dr. By lying that software can withstand one, two or more feet and that's not an unknown example. And I think this is really the time when we have to ask ourselves if, therefore, there is no dilemma here whether or not the VAT system needs it. We don't have any differences between us from opposition or ruling, or the great-grandfather of any political party. So here it is now said what's better for what's called a regular man in Bosnia and Herzegovina. One of us thinks that a unique rate is a better solution, that's what the Council of Ministers proposes, Mr Dikson of the Department of Direct Taxation, and others think that it's better socially differentiated rate. Both of us will face arguments very quickly. So that's the time that's ahead of us. The more those who propose a unique rate, the more they feel like explaining that a unique rate is a higher social rate, more tolerable, the more it opens my eyes to say that it's not exactly like that. Because if you don't care what the opposition says. There's a better model. But I think that, unfortunately, we are here at the opportunity to implement what we are offered, without being able to influence it. And it is true, this morning the chairman said that 42 of the Council of Ministers, at least that's how he informed us of the motion submitted to the Parliamentary Assembly. I have it listed under 20.12., which says that at the 99th session held on 1.12., the Council laid down a proposal for a law supplementing the Tax Act on Additional Value where it is said in the article that here it is said that the Law on value added in Article 24. point 11. adds a new point, which reads: – 12 books of the brochure, magazines, publications, scientific artistic, cultural educational character, official texts, daily, weekly press based on the opinion of the Management Board, and on the proposal of the competent authority, newspaper paper in rolls, or sheets in the headings of these and are released from VAT. It means that the Council of Ministers also dealt with the budgets and thought that this, that the differentiated rate in some segments was better. But this, I would support this if it had come as a proposal, because I think that, of course, it should be done, but the question is whether that's enough even though the Council of Ministers' argument was that it was only a single rate of the best solution. And now there's been a small one, I think the charms of the Council of Ministers and the Board of Direct Taxation, because Đoli Dikson was able to convince them at night that this is a stupid solution and should be withdrawn. So he told them don't do it, now how you're gonna give Zlatko Lagumdžija arguments that man is right when he's looking for a differentiated rate. So dr. Lagumdžija is looking for all kinds of bread, all kinds of milk, all kinds of edible oil, medicines, medical aids, livestock food, etc. Now here you can draw one conclusion and I'd like to see the media, who's ready for differentiated rates, or zero rates for a written medium to defend babies who die because they don't have a zero VAT rate on food, people with disabilities on aids, sick people on medicines, etc. That's where we came from because we didn't coordinate this activity together. Very quickly, so we will get into a situation very quickly that we are convinced there is no country, that we need to be clear where VAT has not caused less earthquakes, the more powerful countries have gone through this painlessly and it is almost certain that the introduction of VAT is a good solution, but I think that the starting position of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been at a differentiated rate and I defend that solution. It would be good, so when we get a request for a change, we'll get a state bill that defends that proposal. It would be good if the Council of Ministers, here's when we say medicines, food, etc. to come out with a bill and say no, it'll jeopardize the system, because it costs so much and so much. We don't even have that many answers. We here now have only two conflicting political stories. Two opposing political stories. Do one or differentiated rate. And in the end, I say I will advocate the adoption of Article 105's procedure on Dr. Lagumdžija and if the Council of Ministers had come here for publications, science, so roll paper for written media, I would have supported that because it is not a problem. It was better if we were a higher rate for luxury products so whoever had to pay without burdening the poor. Unfortunately, I have a feeling we haven't had any political sense and understanding, but I am convinced that this invoice will catch up very soon. And she won't be here. I'm not looking forward to it. I do not live on the moon, but the power of the earth, that I may rejoice in what they sin; for we shall all bear these consequences. More poor than we are, and God damn it, so are we. So I will support Article 105's procedure. I think these other laws that require a delay and that's better than social stress that won't, I suppose, be able to control. I wish my prognosis wasn't true. I'll be happy to believe me. I don't need anyone replicating me. So we divide ourselves into those who are at different rates and those who are unique to 43. And now I ask - why the parliamentary majority who supported the differentiated rate in the election campaign for local elections accepted a unique later. I'd like to get those arguments, maybe I'll support the one today, if you'll explain it to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21071	Thank you very much. The word was requested by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Terzić, and then Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21072	First of all, it is not clear to me that the man who presides this House, and Bosnia and Herzegovina is a country of parliamentary democracy, means he presides over the House and calls himself an opposition.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21073	Well, you can handle it today from most of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21074	It can't be sold by anyone under the real deal. So the man presides over the House and he's the opposition. That's not true. It's another thing. I'm not telling the MPs right now, I'm saying if any of the media are recording, and I think that since Mr Lagumdžija sat down, they probably stopped filming, but if someone accidentally shoots, the message to the citizens – all of what Mr Špirić was saying now, who please just forget it, because he's mixed up all of the living, he's brought out a few facts that aren't true and ultimately, and finally, he's saying that he's speaking on behalf of this opposition when he's reading the amendment and supplementing the laws that the Council of Ministers sent into the procedure. So first it's absolutely incorrect. If we wanted to discuss it today, we'd put it on the agenda. We wanted to argue, but the legal conditions were not met. The indirect taxation administration has not yet given a positive opinion on this, and we are not in a dispute with the Indirect Taxation Administration, but we are in conflict with individual members of the Indirect Taxation Board who believe that their stubborn behaviour can change the decisions of the Council of Ministers that are indisputable and it is the Council of Ministers and States that adopts the law and that can amend the law. However, here are the entities, in this case the Federation has its stubborn behaviour simply vetoed a normal procedure, because if you remember when we discussed a rate of VAT then we clearly and precisely said – let's now adopt the law. We have plenty of time to run an analysis of who they're going to hit and bring in prior to the introduction of VAT, possibly measures that will mitigate the negative consequences of VAT introduction. And then we did an analysis and we found bread, milk, basic life supplies could hit the eventary gatherings socially endangered, so we forced them, but we literally forced the entities to build social funds. And that's why we have social funds. Meanwhile, we talked to publishers, bookstores, journalists, etc. and came up with clear exact indicators that they would be affected by the introduction of one VAT rate precisely because Bosnia and Herzegovina took over the former state's obligations in terms of publishing and obligations 44 which mean that in this country books, textbooks, magazines are imported without customs and tax based on international regulations in that part, and we found that publishers would be affected. Since we don't have any social funds for them, since we don't have the opportunity to give them funds, then we've come to the conclusion that we should go with the amendment and the addition of the law. But there's no discussion about it today. Why? Because it's not true that Đoli Dikson was able to convince the Council of Ministers that we did something stupid. These are the arbitrary co-evaluations of this chairman of the Council of Ministers. I can also say that, the chairman that, at home, I can also say that, that they convinced him that he had done a hundred stupid things so far. I think Špirić is really a mess here. The other thing is, it's not, well, Nikola, it's very rude to say this all the things you said here.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21075	I'm begging you just finish up.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21076	Not only is it rude, but you show how much you don't know. You're talking about differentiated rates, you're talking about zero rates, and the Council of Ministers just went with the idea, since we have 11 exceptions, to give 12 exceptions. And that doesn't mean we gave up one foot. And look at the stenogram. You're saying it's like that here. And it's true that this is all about politicization. Therefore, the Council of Ministers stands at the point of view, firstly, that the law must be respected and that any amendment to the VAT Law must give its opinion. And that's the only reason why you're not in the process of today's amendment that the Council of Ministers has already adopted, but we didn't put it in the process because we don't have the agreement of the Directorate for indirect taxation. I beg you, the amendments submitted by Dr. Lagumdžija the liar through that prism. I want him to turn to the I.D., get him to get consent, then vote on them. Neither the Council of Ministers in this case has any constitutional or constitutional jurisdiction to discuss amendments. It's just the indirect tax administration. You can say it's a reduction in the dignity and rights of MPs, but you've passed such a law. I beg you don't deceive the public, don't discuss materials that aren't in the session today. The Council of Ministers did not withdraw its amendment, its proposal to amend and supplement the law, but the Council of Ministers did not receive an answer from the Directorate for Direct Taxation and we did not receive any legal assumption that the amendments and addition of the law were found on the benches today.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21077	Replica Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21078	So this is a serious problem, and no one will be denied speaking and replicating. But you see, I regret that in this way I must replicate the chairman of the Council of Ministers and then when spoken without arguments, then this is exactly what a talker like the chairman of the Council of Ministers looks like. You cannot tell parliamentarians what they will talk about and what they will not talk about. They should argue against their proposal, as I also respect 45 for the chairman to defend his proposal. And now, Mr. Chairman, I am, by my will, the majority of the chairmans, I can from this moment on not be chairing to sit as an opposition, because my political party is opposition and I have tried to draw closer to the position where I think the general public, civil interest of this country is, and perhaps it would be best if I fell at a unique VAT rate and for power, and also for opposition. So you're wondering, but we need to talk on the basis of the arguments. You have now told me that you have not withdrawn the law that you have delivered here to the Parliamentary Assembly, to me as chairman. You said you pulled him out this morning. And now I'm going to read you what it says. So, if it's already a story of deception, I don't know how to deceive but to speak as it says. So read what it says. It says – in the value-added tax law, Article 1 of the proposal that you submitted, and you did not withdraw it in writing, it writes – on the additional value in Article 24 behind point 11 a new point of 12 is added. So 12. – books, brochures, magazines, publications, scientific, artistic, cultural and educational character, official journal, daily and weekly press, based on the opinion of the board of directors, and now you say you did not get it. Well, as you will keep me informed of the opinions of the board of directors, and you have not received it, so on the basis of the opinion of the board of directors, and on the proposal of the competent entity body, newspaper paper, etc. Who's lying here today? It's not my intention, nor do I think it's your intention, I don't know if you're cheating. So, but I had a connection, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21079	What are you talking about, man? You have no idea what you're talking about, man. You have no idea.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21080	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21081	Please, can you be disciplined? I was listening to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21082	I can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21083	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21084	Well, then don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21085	Mr. Terzić will get your word, if you like, right after.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21086	I'm begging you, so that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21087	...recording this, 46.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21088	Well, of course they're supposed to be filming. And I've had conversations with the director of the indirect tax administration, but it's not good for me to paraphrase it. Not good for the Council of Ministers. So whether you wanted this or not, let's keep this for later. Here you say you haven't given up if you get consent – you will. So you intend to enter either zero or differentiated. Then what makes it different from Dr. A liar who had the strength, without consent, for instance. Here you are saying there is no agreement, to say that all kinds of bread, all kinds of milk, all kinds of edible oils, fats, medicines, auxiliary drugs and food without concentrate have a zero rate. What makes it different? They've got a zero rate. Here he didn't pull. A man asks why this isn't good for citizens. Why isn't it good? So, I'd like to get answers. It's state math. And there's no need, so we're dividing ourselves into those who think
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21089	Replica was chairman
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21090	Well, here's the replica. He said I was cheating. I have no reason to. I'm reading to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21091	I'll prove you're cheating again.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21092	Here.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21093	You'll get your word, Mr. Terzić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21094	Wait a minute. It's obvious.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21095	I ask that we respect each other, to speak with arguments, that you will all receive your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21096	It is obvious that the chairman of the Council of Ministers and I are different whether one or differentiating rate and that is impossible to change, so we do not have to replicate. It's very important that he has a majority. Those who think it's one rate of rescue for the citizens. And it will be adopted today. But I guess as an MP, I have the right to speak my mind. And I will defend him, if you will defend yours. And don't be afraid. God Bog the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina forget what I said and enjoy January. Here, that was a message from the citizens, please forget what the House of Representatives is telling you. Everything will be fine if this doesn't come true. But what happens if it's true. Is there anyone here in this country who is willing to accept responsibility for the exercise of power. So today we have a message that it would be good for entity parliaments to adopt budgets. 47 So we didn’t adopt the state. What are those, I mean, I really can't figure it out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21097	Thank you very much. The replica of the Council of Ministers chairman, Mr. Terzić, and then we'll figure it out. There were more requests for replicas and business interventions. So after Mr. Terzić's business intervention, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović and the replica Mr. Felić. Is it a Replica? You're the first to discuss this, Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21098	So just to prove that Mr Špirić has no idea what he reads to you here and what deceives you, I absolutely have no idea that he reads the Bill's amendment and additions and the first article makes it clear and precise that books, brochures, magazines, publications of scientific artistic, cultural and educational character etc. etc. on the basis of the opinion of the Management Board, and on a proposal from the Competent and Entity Authority, to be released. So it's an integral part of the law and that means the procedure that has to give the competent entity a request to the board of directors to release some books, let the brochure and that the board of directors can only do so by their own decision. And that's the law, that's not an explanation of the procedure that the Council of Ministers is. A man reads here and you and the public deceives you. Why? Because he has no idea what he's talking about. That's all I'm saying. And there's no difference between me and him. So, please, there's no difference between me and him that he's two feet away, I'm one foot away.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21099	I'll take your word for it if you do that if you do.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21100	than he has no idea, and I know what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21101	I'll take your word and you won't get your word if you act like one. I am to you chairman, you to me president, chairman of the Council of Ministers. Please, there's no reason to say someone's cheating. Read, how could you send a document to Parliament that you did not get consent? How could you?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21102	For God's sake, you read the law that the Council of Ministers sent, the amendment and the addition of the law, and you tell the MPs that we have explained to you that we have consent. This refers to books that should be released painfully.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21103	Here, explain it to them. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21104	Well, I explained now.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21105	Here, let's see. Come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21106	So it's no difference, since you, Mr. Chairman, have clearly said here that the difference between me and you is only political in that I want one rate, and you want two. No! No! The difference is you have no idea, and I know what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21107	Please use words and arguments for those claims.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21108	Ladies and gentlemen, I won't, I don't need to replicate. I think I must rise above this council of ministers to preserve Parliament's dignity. We're continuing the debate. If you want to keep your dignity and Parliament, please keep in mind in the future how you will address my fellow Members, if you have no respect for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21109	Thank you very much, business intervention by Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. Then we have two replicas, Mr. Hadžić and Mr. Felić and then there are discussions. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21110	Well, first of all, I really do have a need to react in a way that discusses something that is part of the agenda and whose proposals are Members of the Club or individual MPs of the SDP. I ask the Honorable College to stop discussing something that we as MPs didn't get, or to inform us here, or to give us a break so that a proposal can be repeated, because I insist, here I repeat, as an MP, I didn't get a document on which it is being discussed here.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21111	I apologize to my colleague Azra, keep going.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21112	kolega Špirić, as chairman, I am asking you to inform this Parliament whether the law you have been under discussion for half an hour with the chairman of the Council of Ministers is officially in the procedure. If so, please deliver it to us. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21113	I don't have it pulled out of the procedure the way it's delivered.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21114	Then I beg you to take that law
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21115	Then let the Service divide you, but it is not translated into language variants. It's the only flaw.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21116	Or that we don't have him, that we don't have a debate about him.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21117	I ask the Service to forward the message to the MPs in one language variant.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21118	And secondly, I'm going to make a team to remind you all, or all of us, that the VAT goes into effect on January 1st, that today is December 21st, that any changes, changes to the law, etc. They require proper procedure. And what has already been announced that we as citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina have had the opportunity to read in the media that the Council of Ministers will propose amendments to the law in terms of extending the time limit, that we no longer have time. So it's either a public deception by means of information, or some bullets are here at the House of Representatives, or the College of the House of Representatives and the Council of Ministers. I ask you to inform us about it or interrupt the debate about something that does not exist in the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21119	I thank you for the request of my colleague Azra. You will get this law that I have, which is not written so withdrawn. There are no bullets or misunderstandings. We all need to behave with dignity, to conduct an argument, for example. I didn't say who knows, who doesn't know, but I said what we have from the material, and now you're going to get what I have and the thing is the democratic procedure that people are going to say. The Republic was sought by Mr Izet Hadžić, so Mr Hazim Felić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21120	Dear Chairman, esteemed fellow Members, I would really like to ask the chairman to rise above the situation he was in earlier. I think the replica on his claim that Mr. Dikson called during the night and said the Council of Ministers did something stupid. This was your statement. I believe it was your arbitrary construction, rather than Mr Dikson informing you. If it was an arbitrary construction, then accept that the replica is in place and that we do not go with such disrespects of the Council of Ministers' work, etc. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21121	There's no need for this other one, because I've never sent false messages behind the pay phone. So,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21122	Wait a minute. You said Mr. Diskon was in the middle of the night.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21123	Not during the night, but that he called the motion stupidity
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21124	He called the proposal stupidity. You said he had a stenogram, that he called during the night and said the Council of Ministers did something stupid.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21125	It's stupid. The point is stupidity.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21126	So you're saying Mr. Dikson convinced the Council of Ministers that they did.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21127	I told them they were smart.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21128	And the chairman denies it. And I'm asking you not to provide incorrect information.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21129	Okay. Here's the deal between me and the chairman. You don't have to arbitration.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21130	But no, don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21131	Mr. Hazim Felić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21132	Mr. Chairman, it's a replica to you. The point you discussed and the point you gave is not on the agenda. I'm asking you to stick to the agenda and talk about what we're about on agenda item number four. And secondly, the replica to you is that you called the release from VAT pay a differentiated rate. I claim that release is not a differentiated rate and that is not true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21133	I could, thank you, but I could hold one smaller course on VAT, but there's no need, I have to chair. 51 Mr. Potočnik called for a discussion, a regular one.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21134	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you for a few minutes of attention, because when I think about this problem, I am thinking as a representative of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and at the same time as a businessman and as an MP in Parliament. There is a solution that is the way out of this situation and that allows us to keep it so as to say socially threatened, which at the same time enables the introduction of a one-stage, one-stage tax base in the state and that this is done with 1.1, and that is also a condition that would say that reduces the maneuvering space by various manipulations. It's about the next one. I suggest -- it's normal for us to accept that on January 1st, it's VAT. Secondly, that VAT is 17%, and thirdly, those 50 million, which are intended to address social problems, are directed towards companies that, which produce, or which place those products that are related to this proposal, which the SDP has made. An example of France. France has frozen the prices of bread and all the provisions of life, and it has given those companies the means for social peace. In this way we are sure that no one will be threatened, meaning by freezing the prices of those products that are of vital importance, and these funds are given, or distributed to those companies that will have to keep those prices. Since the Council of Ministers has been working on analysis and, for example, on the example of bread, it has found that 29% of the additional profits, it means that the price can also be kept there. So the proposal is this, I really want to tell you from both economic and human point of view, and I think that Parliament can order the Council of Ministers to freeze the prices of those vital products that are socially threatening, and that the resources provided for in the social policy would be to address social problems directed towards these companies. In this way, our government will also face the state and entity problems of the economy and will reach into the area of incentives for economic operators. It's a solution that's certainly the solution to this situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21135	Thank you. But I'd like to ask you to come back on the subject. It's a method for a member of 105 at SDP's request, so we don't tell a wide story. So we need to make a statement first of all about the procedure in order to be able to decide the measure. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Jahić, is now being sought.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21136	Mr. Chairman, here we have now some document, some draft law that is not in the agenda at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21137	She asked Azra to share. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21138	So no one can ask for something that is past, so Mrs. Hadžiahmetović did not ask for, but Mrs. Hadžiahmetović said why we are talking about something that is not the point of the agenda. So one thing. That's not the point of the agenda at all. Please state the point of the agenda and why you're sharing our material. If you're, uh, you've got some frustration, if you're angry with the Prime Minister's chairman, that's your problem. So don't transfer some of your internal frustrations to Parliament now. So this document shouldn't be shared with us at all because it's not a part of the agenda. Now imagine if everyone said de please share that material, share that material that is not at all a part of the agenda. I really don't see what's causing this kind of behavior.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21139	Please, colleague Jahić, I didn't share the material while Ambassador Dr. Hadžiahmetović did not say she wanted to be as informed as I did. And I don't have the right to be more informed than any of you and she asked for that material to be shared. If that material, you don't have to consider it, but it's enough to get it at any time. So there are no misunderstandings of me with the chairman, but you can't defend the thesis he told you. So that's where the MPs should be, since it's being told from a pay phone who's telling the truth. Now you get as much information as I do and you can tell me the same thing as he does. So no problem. I didn't do it on my own, and I would have done it if you'd asked. I have no reason to hide anything with me. Because the chairman said that the material was not withdrawn, but that it was seeking a statement from other institutions. And that's a good thing to inform yourself. So I have no intention of really breaking the Rules of Procedure, nor did I break it. You got a series of materials on the table today, like me, that don't concern this session, so you didn't react. Here I have ten materials that aren't tied to today's session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21140	...that I'm half-committing at all. It's clear to me who's right, who's wrong and they're clear to me here. So we have Mr. Lagumdžija here with a proposal of three laws. That's what we need to break up about. Obviously, then, you've been driven by some emotions, so this is how you react. Because if we all wanted to get to know each other, we'd have this before, and there's no reason for that to be especially because that's not the point of the agenda. And this may never come to this congregation. So if someone wants me to say it one way or another, I'm not going to tell them if they're private, so they can get it in some other way. So this isn't the agenda point and there's no need to share. So, but here, I suggest we move on. We have these three laws and they need to be discussed. You don't need to talk, because it's obvious that someone here may be missing arguments because the arguments are prepared to bind to this law. So now there's no argument, so let's share, and then connect this.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21141	Thank you. Mrs. Hadžiahmetović is looking for a replica. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21142	I thank the chairman. I need to intervene in terms of private information. I don't know if my colleague Jahić was thinking about me, but half an hour here is a debate about some paper between the chairman who even reads under what number something went into the procedure. It discusses and paralyzes with the chairman of the Council of Ministers, for more than half an hour a debate is being held here through discussions of some MPs mentioning the document, and as MPs, I do not know what it is. And I ask you either to stop the debate about something that's not the subject of the debate, that we don't have in front of us, or that it's delivered to us all so that we can all participate in it. I wouldn't say these two don't matter, because it's about amending the VAT law. I wouldn't say it doesn't matter, but we have a proposal in front of us, which is the official agenda point, if we're going to discuss it to focus on the debate, but only that. Then there's no chairman who says yes, there's something sent, it's not sent, it's waiting for an opinion, etc. I mean, please, don't lead us astray. I didn't ask for private information. It's perfectly clear to me what this is all about.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21143	I'm asking you to put the ball down. It is not the aim of delusion, but the goal is to have all the information we need and if there is too much information for the MPs, for the first time I hear it, I will keep an eye on the future that you do not have any extra information. If it helps us to make rational decisions. So the word was Jovanović. It's an intervention, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21144	Well, here I am, when you're talking about excess or lack of information, I really don't understand why the MPs didn't get the board's opinion on the tables. This morning I attended a session of the Expansive College and I was given the opinion of the board of directors on this issue that we are talking about and I'm surprised that, so the MPs didn't get it. I don't know who's hiding what from. So I attended the session this morning, and I got it, and I think all MPs should have got this.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21145	If they were supposed to get some. I don't mind. I didn't attend, and I didn't win. Everything that comes to me, you get.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21146	We got all this this this morning. So I don't know what they didn't get, so reading means all the other colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21147	It'll be divided. Now the service tells me it's divided. I have no reason to hide it. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21148	Obviously, someone's hiding something from someone.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21149	No, no, there's no reason. You were in the session and it was sent to you to know how you would behave. Mr. Križanović asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21150	I'll do it later.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21151	Later. A fellow Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since there's been a lot of discussion about this, I'm now thinking about how to work it out. What our good Kant would say – the public use of the mind and my colleague Blagojević says as much as the farmer does, the bigger the potatoes give him. And that's what makes fun of these agronomic engineers who come and say this to the crew, but when the crew is better off than with these professional people. But that'll do with potatoes. But when it comes to a serious thing like Parliament should do, then it cannot be interpreted as that. First of all, I am sorry that there is no Council of Ministers chairman, because he is angry at the chairman of this distinguished parliament and now I am thinking something, the Honorable Chairman, both of them are respected on my part, I respect it. You know, there's an old rule. I don't agree with them, I don't respect them, I don't support what they may say, but I support them as people do, it's essential. That's the difference. I wish he were here, because he gets angry, and we're discussing a state-run social issue so important. A man gets angry and leaves. Now, I don't know if he's mad at me, so he's not even the chairman anymore, so maybe he's pissed off. If that's a good thing, then. Well, you can't get angry like this, and it's about so important things for the state. So, why don't you call him and get him back in touch, 'cause he'd like to ask him this, too. It's clear to me, we have a agenda point. This isn't technical, it doesn't matter at all. It's important that we see what we do with this mess that we have when it comes to the application of this law. And that's where I'd like the chairman now. So please, people, if anyone has taken this issue seriously in terms of saying we are implementing reforms as a general question. Are we in line with the endurance of our population? What pace and hodogram should these reforms be so that we don't break those people down ours? So who takes care of our people.? There is a Roman when I began to say something – the voice of the people is the voice of God. So where are we going? We call for a conversation with the publishers and the chairman has been enlightened after that conversation recently after so much time as Mr. Lagumdžija and we here are saying that this is justified. And where is that voice and the will of the people who spoke to that people to grasp that they also need it. And I'm not at all, I'm not in a dilemma at all, because I wasn't when we were on the committee and Mr Lagumdžija suggested that this issue should be resolved, he said – 55 will we be based on the existing law that we have, or will we be able to list or list the release of certain products that will not be taxed, which we were talking about. Because you have such a possibility within this existing law. Or it's someone who wants to, after a while when it's over, they're letting it go now to publishing what we've been saying, and they said it was a complete nonsense in its own time. Does this not mean that before the elections themselves, the people of the congregation will remember that we are now going to what Lagumdžija is going to talk about all the time and sign what he's looking for? So that then they abuse actually to get to the political points they'll then release as feces and food and children's and medicines, etc. And we in this House when we say that, then it's something we don't see, we don't have visions, we don't have a future, and they don't actually have them. That's the problem. And now we're always talking about the indirect tax administration. We were so embarrassed in the sense that we were normally waiting for them to give an opinion. The chairman of the Council of Ministers is small, nothing can change that. As much as I'm saying he's gonna have to do something. Neither can this parliament, because we are within this Parliament simply below the Directorate for indirect taxation. And who brought the law. But you brought in the majority of the congregation. how you have the strength. Since you're not ashamed to lecture us that such a thing can't happen in law. You're saying now that you've passed the law. Says the chairman, gentlemen, you've passed that law. Where are you from the congregation majority, where are you from the SDA of the SDS, HDZ, to tell you that with interest, it turns out the invoice? He's mocking your face. And your executive leaders ordered you to do so. So, you're in pain of PDP, we're gonna make a new government, so let's get what you're getting at. So let people be consistent in what we do, in what we behave in the evaluation of important social issues that we discuss. What we're turning into law. What did we do? We got hypocrisy. Now he can't, now he can. So how can after a month, or a couple, two months be claimed to be the best solution. After that, we're changing it ourselves now. Or after a proposal from the opposition that something like that doesn't work. He's waiting for the knife. I believe that in this country, Bosnia and Herzegovina should be respected, regardless of whose opinion it is, whether it is positions or opposition, if it is currently more constructive and smarter for my people. Bosnia and Herzegovina won't start with the forces they're breaking, so here we see today in this House. So I suggest that what we have on the agenda is enough for us. I think we can fix that, and it doesn't matter what he's done right now. Not only does it matter that the congregation majority who made the mistake of fixing something, not only in publishing, but also what is proposed by article 105 and first and second, and thus to fix something. And it doesn't matter if it was delivered by Lagumdžija with the signature of the population, with a list of citizens who gave him support, or if it's anyone from the U.S.A., let's say. It's important that we do something good for these people. And don't listen to these strangers in every way, if they say it's the smartest. They're doing an experiment. Unfortunately, not on us, not on me, not on this people who have something, we who have something, but on a people who have absolutely nothing. There's no right to peel his skin, no matter who's in this people. And you gentlemen, that's why we're calling you, and now we have a chance to make it right, and I'm asking you to do it. If not, I'll call you that you're riding preferable. Thank you. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21153	...please keep your words. So please, please keep your words. Just a little bit, please. We have a proposal from the College to complete Dr. Duraković, Živković and Dr. Azra Hadžiahmetović and to take the break we announced. Hazim Felić had a replica, but to avoid replicas, I will make a contribution further that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21154	I'm just saying to Mr. Gligorić that the Romans failed under the first, and second, I don't think he really meant it in the end.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21155	Thank you. Dr. Crescent. Duraković has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21156	I'll try to be brief so I don't bother this distinguished home.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21157	Let's just hear from each other a little bit. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21158	But in my court, I will point to what is the key misunderstanding of both this Parliament and this state and this society. Namely, to teach here whether there are different systems, the political systems in the world are even applied whether it is. There are systems of unity of power, division of power and mixed system. We've given ourselves up, by our constitution, that it's a system of division of power. You can only divide power into three parts, it is legislative, executive and judicial. The highest body of the legislative authority in this country is this very parliament. Now I'm going back to these phantom documents. Now all of a sudden we got a letter from the board of directors signed with Đoli Dikson, who says in the second paragraph, as you know, quote him, the Management Board for indirect taxation has already been considering certain and similar amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax and decided to reject them all, etc. I am now asking a question that I have apostropheed in several previous sessions – is indeed the board of directors above this parliament. If he calls for certain legal solutions, we refer to our constitution. Because, I repeat, this house is the highest body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's legislative authority and there are no questions that he cannot decide in a legislative sense in one way or another. And they don't have to scare us. It's a nonses, I think. We are making a cartoon out of this parliament by some Dikson, an international bureaucrat, blackmailing us and saying – so we have decided to reject all your proposals both future and past, etc. And we'll decide to reject his suggestions, if we decide. So there's the key question and let's get back to the scale. It's said to be too late now. It's not too late. This Parliament may decide that VAT shall not apply from 1.1, as may be said to be from 1.6 next year, or yes and whatever. He can make all the decisions, legal and 57 legitimate. So we don't need them. He says he can't chew it up. Well, like I can't count those rates. To introduce a zero rate is so complicated. Science and discipline say they're lying, because it's a simple operation. The computer handles billions of operations, not one or two, or three feet. They're stories for little kids. So there is no valid political reason that would now be against this proposal, the proposals of these laws, entering the procedure by emergency procedure. how it's going to be, it doesn't matter. And I guess that's the point of the agenda. First comes the proposal I think Lagumdžijin, so Križanovicev etc. Now let me say something about that because I'm sorry Sead Palavrić isn't here. She said a year and more here when we started discussing VAT and social programs. That's no problem. I have finished social programs in my drawer. I'd like to open that drawer of hers now and see. And now all of a sudden we're looking for an emergency resolution where all the responsibility and responsibility of the Council of Ministers and entity parliaments would be transferred to this parliament, right? All responsibility therefore, we should now appeal to bring in social programs, please. Add protection prices for certain products. E came from behind into the head, now you should see because every real analyst is clear that there will be social chaos if there remains such a unique rate. Everyone. No one can defend that anymore. Now, suddenly the Council of Ministers remembered that, because there's a pre-election campaign, we should have all the press and the press, and we'll exclude them. If you can exclude the press, why not bread, milk and medicine? I mean nonses. Let's not be wrong here. We need to look into the people's eyes and tell them if there's even one valid, first economic, second political, third social, fourth here, not to say morally ethically and one reason why we're old enough to do something to protect the most vulnerable categories of the population. I will end up in this short appeal. It doesn't matter who spoke the position. We're all MPs here. Let's say the BiH Party is in the so-called The position, but since the beginning, the Party for BiH and its club have been at a differentiated rate. Which didn't go away, all right. But I cited the reasons, the great reasons. And I'll tell you again, just to remind you, then let each one of you decide on his conscience. We have the most unemployed in Europe by the proportion of the population, of course. Most unemployed in Europe. Secondly, we have the most pensioners in Europe. On one employed Malta, not one pensioner with a tendency to further increase. We have the most disabled and sick in Europe. So these fundamentally endangered. The problem from paraplegics, from the wounded, from the blind, the deaf, to the unaccounted for by the blues, etc. With this law, even those stretches for hands and legs and for those machines for the blind and for and for all that goes under the VAT. All the production that isn't small, that she lives on. It has nothing to do with the national issue, it has nothing to do with the political issue, it has nothing to do with the party issue. Invalids and diseases are the same in Banja Luka and Mostar and Sarajevo or Bijeljina and in the same catastrophic position. Well, then, we have the most illiterate ones in Europe. Most of all. It's our shame, and we're introducing a book tax, a bookie, a bookie. I spoke last time 180 KM needed a founding, a basic notebook of beginners, a reader, etc. 180 marks in a country where the average income is here somewhere. Now let's get out of that corner. Why don't we put this in the process and then we'll see and let it come out to the people and let it be said who voted for and for what reasons and how. But let him interpret it any way he wants. We don't need the world's bureaucracy to determine our constitutional, restrict our constitutional powers. That's what I'm saying. We can do it. Is it too late? It's late, but we should've done it before. It was, the proposals were many, many months ago, but they were deliberately delayed. Now that he's come to the door, let's go now. What if 58 really comes to social rebellion and dissatisfaction? Let's appeal to some other things, etc. It's political games. So I suggest that after this break we finalize the discussion and see if it goes according to article 105 and then we open a brother's debate if it should be until New Year's Eve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21159	Thank you, Dr. President. Durakovic. Dr. Crescent. Kunić has a replica, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21160	It's about this discussion, you can't say it's a replica, but I'd like to say something. Thank you, Chairman. I mean, what kind of situation are we in right now? I am one of those who was against giving authority to the board of directors to give his opinions when it comes to this law, or in fact to be entrusted to the Council of Ministers and Parliament, of course. Because without his opinion, we can't make decisions. And it's an actual situation. Please. I was at a different rate, so I voted for it. But what do we do now? There's a question. These discussions are acceptable, they've been before. So it's especially acceptable from a social point of view. But now our hands are tied, we can't do that. If we want to respect the functioning of the rule of law. Here is Mr. Duraković in favour of the division of power and the Trialist system whether the division is executive, judicial, legislative. This is the basic principle of the rule of law, but in order to comply with the existing law and possibly change these rates, then we would have to change first, please, then we would have to change the powers of the board of directors first. So if we want to change this rate, we need to change the powers of the board of directors. Without that, we can't decide. Although I'd like to do the same. So I don't differ on the point of view when it comes to the social situation. Therefore, in order to amend this law, we must also amend the provisions relating to the powers of the Management Board. Otherwise, we can't, and let's not ask you to politicize this situation and stall with pauses. It's a real possibility. We can't do anything else. Unless we do illegal things to this House. And let's not discuss it anymore. It really doesn't make sense. Or, please, let us make a decision that an amendment of the Law on indirect taxation will take place for the next session of Parliament where the powers of the Management Board will be reduced. It's the only way. It's a legal procedure. There's no other procedure. And let's not argue nonsense.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21161	Thank you, Dr. President. I Kunić. There's more. Replica Dr. Duraković. Let's finish this, please. We'll take a break. Please don't replicate.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21162	I don't want to argue with a respected professor either, but in my deep conviction, that is to say legally, the opinion of the board of directors is not binding on this House. Because he is constitutionally stronger than the board of directors and cannot be a single law stronger than the Constitution. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21163	Thank you. Dr. Crescent. Kunić and we end the replicas. We'll take a break. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21164	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, hello, I'm sorry to have to replicate, because this Parliament has passed a law that provides for that opinion. Therefore, you cannot without changing that provision that has given that authority.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21165	Thank you. Dr. Crescent. Lagumdžija replica and finish our lines and we'll take a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21166	I agree, Mr. Špirić, I can't think of spreading any further. I've got a thousand and one thing I could do here and I can't even think of getting into it. I'd just like to ask, after we've finished, to conclude the debate, please just vote before the break on whether it's accepted to follow Article 105 or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21167	That's good.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21168	So let's end this.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21169	If there's no more charges for discussion. Is there any more of them that have been reported for questioning? Please, here's a replica of Dr. Avdić. Here's your line for a little while. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21170	Just a moment to comment on what Dr. Duraković said. So even though we have passed a law which obliges this Parliament to consult the Directorate for indirect taxation, we have made a mistake. We have therefore sinned on the constitutional jurisdiction of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, i.e. the House of Representatives. Which means it's stronger than what we brought. So we had no right to do that. Which means we don't have to go as far as dr. Kunić respect this.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21171	Thank you. Is it a replica of a colleague, Novaković? Replica. Here's your replica. Momčilo Novaković. To bring this point to an end, please and plead. I think it's okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21172	I must say that it is not common, probably in parliamentary practice for Parliament to adopt some law, and then after that it says it will not comply, however it seems at 60 at some point the wrong decision. So maybe this was the wrong decision, but it was the gentlemen's decision. Just because some didn't vote for her doesn't mean they don't have to stick to her.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21173	Thank you. Is there anyone else to discuss? A colleague of Moranjkić. Let's just get this debate over with and get it straight. I think we're done here.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'm listening to this and I'm already listing these papers and I don't understand anything anymore. I don't know how or what to vote anymore, what kind of attitude in my head to finally put it together, and then I put it on paper for a second. And I want to make a loud comment in the shortest lines. I'd like someone who's willing to listen to me see if I'm missing anything. We're voting VAT law with a differentiated rate. This law lasts for ten days, we return it to the pressure benches, we change the law with a single rate with a condition that is here and given and accepted, and it is that until the start of the VAT application all the social programs that finally follow this law will be completed. Since the program wasn't even on the dock, and we knew in our assessment that it wouldn't be for a long time, not to say there wouldn't be anything, it appeared in these benches of two laws. One law of the SDPs and one law of mine. Mine was something wider and he treated part of the economy and they both fell with the Council of Ministers' explanation – No release because it fell out of the VAT system. And this means that the input elements in certain products remain under VAT and there is chaos in the economy. Okay. Now it's not. Furthermore, there is no application of these laws because it is late, and that is two months ago, late, programs, computers are finished and everything is set up etc. Suddenly now that in seven days, eight should be applied, someone pulls out of the drawer and can also walk through the benches of a law that is now denied, now someone is potential. And I don't know if he's alive or dead. If he's alive, then something isn't what I said ahead, and if he's dead, then he needs to be buried if he's not on these benches. Therefore, I ask that, finally alone, I am standing now with formal legislation, yet we look at the law that we have passed, and that is what we have given to this, this administration of power greater than all the legislative authorities that have in this country, including us and these under us and the Presidency of the State, etc. Now let's just do this. I get the impression if we pass, we'll be working illegally in these benches. And we're referring to the law. And if we do something like that, then we have something else, and that's why I'm in a dilemma, and I said I don't know why I'm voting here anymore in these benches.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21175	Thank you. Dr. Crescent. I'm just asking you to close the argument.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21176	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, I would only really not intend to spread the atmosphere, since we are now pleading on Article 105 whether or not we accept it, I would just like to draw attention, since you have shared a letter to the Board of Direct Taxation, or to the Management Board, I would draw your attention only to read this letter carefully and to see that this is the opinion of the chairman of the Management Board. Even the administration that received our law 61 on 9.12. we put the law in the procedure, today's session was waiting to be held after 11 days, although there were meetings of the board of directors, actually sent to us yesterday by the chairman of the board of directors, not by the board of directors. Look at the terminology - I think, I'm worried. The man cares. So it's not the board meeting that worries, it's the man who cares. He's worried. So here you have no negative opinion of the board of directors. You have the opinion of a man who is concerned, who is under the circumstances of the chairman of that board of directors. So don't be burdened by the possible negative opinion of the board of directors. It doesn't exist. No, they deafened him.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21177	Thank you. Wait a minute, please. Thank you, Dr. President. Lagumji. I'm closing the debate. Everyone's worried and worried has a chance to plead. It always seems the strongest rule of democracy. I call upon you to plead on the request of the MP Dr. The Zlatko of Lagumdžija to consider the Amendment Act and the Supplements of the Tax Act to additional value by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - For 13, versus 19, abstention 3. So this proposal has not been accepted to go to the regular procedure and thus we gain the right to move to the fifth item of the agenda. I suggest we take a break, something shorter, so 45 minutes we announced. ________(?) We could've done the fifth and sixth right away because it'd be the same. Well, it doesn't matter, if there's a request for a hearing, please. It'll be the same. _______(?) Let's go now.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, it's a shame we broke up the previous debate and my role is now, I believe ungrateful after this break where we return to one of these looks important, but the subject we're not prepared to consider seems to be committed. First of all, I would like to say that we have come up with these three proposals of the law for purely procedural reasons and, first of all, I am asking my colleagues and colleagues not to take this proposal as an unnecessary abuse of your colleague and colleague, but indeed that this was our commitment from the very beginning of the proposal for a law on value added tax. Respecting everything that was said in the previous debate, I want to thank most colleagues and colleagues who have given very reasoned debates and who I do not want to repeat in the interest of rationalising time here, but I want to highlight only three things. So I want it to be understood that our proposal for this part of the law relating to VAT is one constant for why we advocated saying a year ago when we adopted a VAT with a reduced rate in this House. So in one way where they were respected were almost all of these suggestions that we now propose. I will not, of course, explain again what we wanted to accomplish, remind you of the situation in which the country is in economic, social and poverty in the need for better education, etc. but I'll tell you that we had one additional obligation to use all the time available to us for a possible
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21181	Mr. Potočnik, please listen to your colleague will give you this conclusion that you should suggest. It's just not over yet. Wait a minute. Listen to some of Križanović's colleagues. It's not over yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21182	Please. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to point out that here we have respected the views and demands of a large number of pensioners, farmers, trade unions and, as counterpart Lagumdžija says in the previous point, over 130,000 signatures of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am now asking a question if we are deafening ourselves as parlametarians of such a general mood in the country, then the question really is who are we representing in this House? It seems that we represent most of the views and interests of the Directorate for indirect taxation. Today, there have been a lot of words about how legally we are prevented from changing anything compared to what the Board of Direct Taxation is thinking. Let me quote just article 14 of that law that we passed two years ago. 63 Article 14(1) reads - The Committee is relevant for the determination of the proposal, watch the policy proposals on indirect taxation for the entire area of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dot. The second sentence after this is: The Council of Ministers determines the policy. And the last item of this article is – The Management Board for its work is responsible to the Council of Ministers. I am now wondering by what momentum, by which mentality of inferiority we are starting from being us, having our hands tied and the Council of Ministers and Parliament to change anything... Indirect tax administrations. And therefore allow me, because I know the outcome and this law to say that I am carrying one deep bitterness as a Parliamentarian with the inferiority of our power as well, above all in the Council of Ministers, and I share that opinion when, in terms of our relationship as Parliament, that we simply accept one, one act of reality, one act of perfection, that we do not have the opportunity as the largest institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina to make any. And, you see, the issue has been raised with particular serious warnings about possible chaos due to the country's unpreparedness, overall, for the use of VAT, especially the consequences of these endangered layers of the population. I'm asking if we're going to blame all of Đoli Dikson for this condition? Here, think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21183	I thank my colleague Križanović. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to prepare yourselves to plead on the request of Mr Križanović to discuss the Amendment Law and the Supplements to the Tax Act on additional value by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - So 14 against 16, 3 abstentions. I find there is neither a total majority nor an ethnicity, that we have not accepted the request of Mr Križanović's MPs to consider the Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Act on additional value by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. So this law goes into regular procedure. Moving to the sixth item of the Ad.6 agenda. The request of MPs Joza Križanović, Zlatko Lagumdžija and selo Bešlagić to consider the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Tax Act on additional value by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, who's answering for a word? Here you go, pal Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21184	I thank the chairman. I don't know, I believe you've gotten the impression in these general arguments that we've given here before these two laws that we've given this third law 64 in one condicional sense and since this is the outcome of these two laws, I would ask you to accept the withdrawal of this law, because now it doesn't make any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21185	I thank my colleague Križanović. This is about a delay, and it's really written about the fate of these two previous votes. So, the promoter pulls out of the agenda procedure, and that's what we get, I hope you don't mind either, or if you think we should, so here is the procedure of Article 105. If you think you need to plead, I don't want to violate the Rules of Procedure. There's no decadent business security, and I think we'll make a minor mistake if we come forward, although the promoter knows what fate is. Please, if there is no further discussion, prepare to vote. Vote now. There's no right to a business retreat. He's right, colleague Novaković. In the new Rules of Procedure, it will be right. So for 8, versus 20, 5 abstentions. I find that we have not accepted the request of MPs Joza Križanović, Zlatko Lagumdžija and selo Bešlagić for the discussion of the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Act on additional value by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda, that's Ad.7. A request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Amendments and Supplements Bill on the Security Intelligence Agency of BiH by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. We received the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers' Bill on December 12th of the current year, and we sent it to you on December 13th. It is a request for an emergency procedure under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate. Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So for 22, versus 3, abstention 2. I therefore find that we also have a total majority and entity majority that we have accepted the request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of Amendments and Supplements Act on the Security Intelligence Agency of BiH under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure have thus obtained a condition to move to the eighth point of the Ad.8. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the request of MP Milorad Živković to consider the draft law amending the Law on Postage of BiH by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. At the 70th session, we discussed the request of fellow Members of Živković to consider the amendment of the postal code under Article 105. Rules of Procedure. 65 During the request, he did not receive an entity majority, so he followed the procedure for agreeing the Kolegijum as a commission. You have received a report from the Commission to the College. You've reached the Conformity Report. The Commission does not have consent and we are going to the second round of voting. So only those who are against it vote. Right, Branka?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21186	The vote should be fully held, but the decision will be made by those who are against it. Because the Rules of Procedure for, against, abstention, and against them are important in this voting process.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21187	Of what? Reports or laws?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21188	No, no. It is a request for a member of 105 who did not receive an entity majority at the last session. So we're going to another vote. in that second round of voting from the total number. First I appreciate the first one if he's got the total majority, then he'll decide which one they're against and that the last request should not be against 2/3 of the entity.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21189	Okay. I'm calling you. Prepare to vote. You've got an explanation. Vote now. Please, the Proposer requests prepare to vote. If it's missing, it'll be missed in the re-election. Vote now. For 18, versus 10, abstention 3. So, the request did not get most and. Here is a colleague of Živković's you have business intervention. There's no ordinary majority, there's an ordinary majority, 18. No entity.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21190	Please, most of them have a total majority and since this is a reverse vote, it was important not to be 2/3 in one, in entities. Since it's not 2/3 in entities, I think it's over. Please!
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21191	There's 2/3 of the Republic's against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21192	Wherever he's against, 10's in. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21193	Yes, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21194	Forgive me, please. I'm not looking enough. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21195	Wait a minute. We need to establish everything. He's right, colleague Živković. So 2/3 must be against it. The Federation doesn't have 2/3. So this one was accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21196	This is my lapus. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21197	Therefore, the Commission's report on the effort to reach an agreement on the request of Ambassador Milorad Živković was accepted, and in that case we are going to the law. So now the proposal for a law amending the Law on Postages of BiH is by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. I'm opening a debate. A colleague of Živković's answering for his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21198	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, allow me just a few words about this request of mine. Namely, in conclusion with the 55th session of this Parliament, 20.4.2005, we obliged the Council of Ministers to define the headquarters of the Post Office in Bosnia and Herzegovina within a month of the publication of the Law on Postage of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As the deadline is greatly exceeded, the seat has not been defined, I believe it is not in line with its powers defined by the BiH Constitution as the most responsible law-making body, but, more importantly, I think even more important control of their implementation. We have a duty and obligation to submit proposals for amendments and amendments to the laws already passed when the need arises, as the need is currently indicated. I would like to remind my fellow parliamentarians that the inability to organise the Post Office provided for by the Postal Law, because of the failure to determine its seat, has conditioned the delay of this law and would unblock this process and return the jurisdiction to determine the legal solutions to us, because we are the ones who bring legal solutions, and the Council of Ministers is the one who implements these legal solutions, I have proposed this amendment to the law. Given that in the first proposal Doboj came into consideration as a centre and it was not for me to say a great debate about it, I will also read to you from the 23.7th conclusion of the Government of Republika Srpska which, on the basis of the proposal of the Ministry of Transport and Relations, gave its opinion and said – given the geographical location, accommodation capacity and other conditions that are important for the functioning of the Post Traffic Agency, the Government proposes to appoint Doboj as head office of the same 67. A representative of the state capital and the Post Office Restitution Fund of Serbia's AD Banja Luka will take the necessary activities to ensure all conditions for the accommodation of the agency in Doboj. Practically, the RS government has taken on the burden both materially and financially and technically to train the centre in Doboj for work. Therefore, I think that there have been conditions for this parliament to regain the legal authority to pass the law and vote Doboj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21199	I thank my colleague Živković. A colleague, Novaković, reporting for word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21200	Dear colleagues, the SDS Club will support this law in due course that, I think it is not good that this law was proposed by Mr. Živković, since Mr. Živković was agreed on in the joint commission, so the two homes agreed therefore with the proposal not to have the seat in Doboj. In fact, we know then how we voted here at the House of Representatives, and how he voted the House of Peoples, and I don't think it's cordial, to say it this way, but of course I accept the fact that some MPs sometimes respect the government of Republika Srpska and sometimes disrespect its views. Here we are, and we will support Mr. Živković's proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21201	I thank my colleague Novaković. There's no need for a colleague, Živković, for a replica. You respect the government, Momo knows.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21202	The correction of Mr. Novaković's allegations, so Živković, when he agreed to this law in the post office, was a representative of this Parliament with the House of Peoples and I went towards passing the law, that by consensus, you know and only how the common consensus works. However, the same parliament concluded that after a month, the Council of Ministers was set at the centre. So I didn't give up the request for the agency to be in the post office, but I gave the opportunity for the law to be passed and given the possibility to the Council of Ministers to appoint that centre after a month. So I think my attitude and the attitude of that part that defends is quite correct and I don't see that I've done anything wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21203	It's okay, but be careful, Doctor, most of the time. You see how they can object. Who's still answering for the word? Nobody's answering. We're closing the debate. 68 Ladies and gentlemen prepare to plead. Vote now. So for 20, versus 13, there's no one on hold. - Nine from the Federation, 12 from RS. He doesn't have an entity majority. It remains for alignment since colleagues do not have Džaferović. We're moving on and we're going round and round to the new Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, that's right. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda, that's Ad.9. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the Constitutional and Legal Commission's report on the Proposal for a Framework Law on Higher Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina (Proposer Momčilo Novaković) At the 71st session, as you know, the Constitutional and Legal Commission's report on the Proposal for a Framework Law on Higher Education did not receive an entity majority. I note that for the second time we have considered a report by the Constitutional and Legal Commission that is negative about this legislative proposal. In the College, a reconciliation procedure was carried out as a commission. You've received a match report. Also, as you can see, there's no consent. We're voting on the commission's report in the second round. I note, if there are no 2/3 of the entity against, the report has been passed and the bill has fallen. If 2/3 are against the report, the report has not been adopted and the committee in charge is reviewing the bill again and submitting a new report. Please be. I'm opening up a debate. No discussion, just a vote. So get ready to vote. Vote now. The commission's report is being voted on. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21204	They're just voting against them. Just against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21205	- For 14, v. 9, abstention 2. So you're looking, please get ready to vote nicely. Vote now. So we're voting on the commission's report. - So for 17, versus 9, abstention 2. The commission's report was adopted and I'm guessing you're welcome. Please don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21206	Report not accepted, return to the commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21207	It's coming back to the commission's report. Yeah, yeah. The report is coming back to the commission. So if the report has not been adopted, the competent commission shall review the bill again and submit a new report. No, no, 18, no RS. [[Common discussion]] It's not adopted. It's not adopted. He's coming back for a new report. We're right. We're moving to the 10th point of the agenda. He's a bit of a complicated Rules of Procedure, but he's fine. Wait a minute, please, we're going to the 10th point of the agenda, that's A.10. The draft law implementing the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons (First Reading) is in the parliamentary procedure of 6 October of this year. The 69th session adopted a proposal for a procedure under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 13 October. The Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs shall be responsible. The committee's report was delivered on November 18th. You saw from the commission's report that there were no amendments to the bill and that the commission unanimously accepted the text of the law that it also proposed to the House. So we're in first reading. I'm opening a debate. Dušanka Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21208	The Honorable Presidency, honourable colleagues and colleagues, on the basis of Article 7. The Convention prohibiting the development of production, accumulation and use of chemical weapons and its destruction, which Bosnia and Herzegovina has ratified the obligation of all members of the Convention to adopt the relevant laws necessary for the regulation of this area controlled by the Convention, as well as for the consistent implementation of all the obligations arising from it. The Convention of Member States for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons Organisations adopted by the end of 2003. Decision on an action plan for the implementation of Article 7. The Convention, which obliges all Member States to adopt state laws and measures, and the UN also called on by its resolution 1540, adopted by the Security Council on 28.4.2005, to adopt national rules and regulations to ensure compliance with obligations to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The UN Security Council has established a special committee tasked with monitoring the implementation of that resolution. Bosnia and Herzegovina has not had the area legally regulated so far, although it has made commitments by joining the Convention. Therefore, it was necessary to pass such a law, which complies with the provisions of the Convention, also confirms the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons from The Hague. Given that the proposal for this law allows for the fulfilled obligations that Bosnia and Herzegovina has made by accession to the Convention and since the convention is an international multilateral contract, I propose that the Parliamentary Assembly's House adopt the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21209	Thank you. I thought there was an objection, but this is good support to the law. Who's coming forward for the debate after there's been no amendment? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote, ladies and gentlemen, please prepare. Vote now. So I find that with 26 votes for, no one against, no one abstention has adopted the draft law on the implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of Development of Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons and its destruction in the first reading. Now I ask you who is for it, since there were no amendments in the first stage to move on to the second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For second reading, yes. I find that with 28 votes for, no one against, one abstention, we have moved to another reading about the implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production and Accumulation and the use of chemical weapons and its destruction. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. No Niko's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote in the second reading. Vote now. So I find that unanimously with 31 votes for, no one against, no one abstention has adopted the draft law on the implementation of the Convention to prohibit the development of production and accumulation and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. So both in the first and second readings, the law was passed. Moving to the 11th point of the agenda, that's Ad.11. Proposal for a law on the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) The proposal for this law to Parliament was submitted on 28 August 2005 with a request for an emergency procedure under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. At the 65th session, Dom adopted a request for a procedure under Article 104. At its 69th session, Dom set a new 10-day deadline for submitting a new report. 71 We received a new report from the Finance and Budget Commission on 28 November 2005. You saw that the Commission supported the bill and adopted five amendments. In the plenary phase of one amendment, Mrs Dušanka Majkić and Ruža Sopta submitted. I'm opening a break in my first reading. Who's calling for a hearing? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote on this law in the first reading. Vote now. So I realize that with 32 votes for, against no one, abstentioned no one, we adopted the proposal for a law on the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. Since we only have two amendments to our colleagues, Majkić and ruža Sopta, I ask who is for us to move on to another reading of this law? Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, for 30 votes for, no one against, no one abstention, we adopted a proposal to go to another reading, related to the Law on the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. Mrs Dušanka Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21210	This is already an amendment that I have defended on several occasions.... Those amendments remain one, which means that Article 24(1) changes and says that the auditor-general and vice-general auditor appointed the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Commission's contribution to the selection and appointment set out in Article 3 of this article. The proposal is based on the candidate list. This means that, given the expected constitutional changes and the unnecessary extension of the procedure for the selection of the auditor-general and his deputies, I believe that Parliament should remain entitled to the choice of the auditor-general and his deputies.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21211	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Majkić. Sopta Ruža, then Ljiljana Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21212	I thank Mr. Chairman, I have explained my amendment for the last time, but I have a need to complete it. In fact, when we were preparing for the Commission and for the last session of Parliament at which this law was held, one of the arguments was presented to us and that harmonisation of the law should be done that in BiH there is entity and Brcko District, that there are solutions in them, that solutions are as proposed to us in the law. I last felt it seemed to me that part of the MPs here, that they supported my amendment in one way, when it comes to and my amendment refers to the fact that under the conditions of the auditor, there must be also a condition that there is a certificate for the performance of the duties of the auditors which has been issued by one of the competent institutions authorised in BiH. It means he's standing and he needs a certificate from an authorised auditor. In fact, I happen to have in my hand, and there's a competition under way, which was called by the Commission for Elections and Appoints in the Brcko District. Note, according to the Law adopted in this year 72, where it says it needs a certificate to perform the duties of an auditor who has issued or nostrated some of the authorised institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So we have institutions, we appoint an auditor and a deputy auditor, I think this condition should exist in this law. I last proposed, and if we don't, then we change the name, not to call the chief auditor, but to be chief director and deputies. This was not accepted by anyone to submit such an amendment, and therefore I call on my colleagues to really give someone the title of auditor, that they must have a certificate from an authorised auditor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21213	Thank you. Is the replika Dušanka? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21214	I specifically asked the Swedish Audit Office when they were at the presentation of the whole project. I specifically asked whether the general auditor and his deputies should have a certificate from an authorised auditor and the answer was that if you came to England and asked an English state auditor such a question, he would react very sharply. It would be absurd to ask such a single person to have a certificate. Mrs. Sopta said on the Commission that there was such an authorisation in Croatia and I took it, I got this law and here I saw that the certificate of an authorised auditor applies only to employees, not to the state auditor and his, here's the law here that I have next to me. So the state auditor refers to 2-3 positions, very simple and nowhere to be mentioned, here's the document, I'm not saying this by heart, so I think we're unnecessarily complicating this thing, about the certification of the state auditor. In the end, who's that facility that's gonna give it to? We still don't have an authorized house to give to the public administration.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21215	Thank you. My Kolegice Milićević, you asked for an argument. The rose also has a replica, please. Gopođo Sopta, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21216	Mr. Chairman, my colleague didn't replicate to me at all. I didn't even mention the law of the court, although I claim that there is a condition for the main auditor's certificate in the hotel law, because I checked it out, and I didn't mention any sides of this, counselors or I don't know who you said, I called for harmonisation of the law in BiH, I called for what I read from the Brcko District competition. So this wasn't a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21217	I thank you, Ljilja Milićević asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21218	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will also, on behalf of the Commission, because this has everything to do with it, so we've had this twice in the debate, the Commission's Law on the Audit of Institutions. The present amendment was the subject of the debate both at the first Commission and second and did not receive 73 support from the Finance and Budget Commission. It relates to having the presidency shut down from this, the appointment of an auditor. I must repeat the reasons given to the Finance and Budget Commission, when a representative of the Council of Ministers said the Council of Ministers remains in the original version of the text of the law, which it referred to in the procedure, that is. The reasons for this are not because it is like this or the Presidency, which tomorrow will be one president or three, but because this law, if we delete the Bureau, leaves the appointment of the office to a revolution, on one leg, to a depth, which this home appoints the Commission and that position of 4 members, opposition 2. So he dictates this, the Committee for the Selection of Auditors. They make a list, so now there is no presidency, that list decides who will be selected from that list, and by law you know that the House of Representatives has been given jurisdiction, confirms their work plan, their work report. We've adopted a conclusion, and as a House, we're choosing who's going to audit the work of the Audit Office. We have the right to recall them, to do what we want with them, that most of them who are should be, and they should be doing business audits by the BiH institutions, so by order of whoever elected the Council of Ministers, that office will review all of this. In my opinion, erasing the Presidency, or those other legs on which the Revision Act stands, is placed in the pocket of the Audit Office by the parliamentary majority, whatever it is. And that's why I insist on you colleagues, for the sake of the Office of Audition and their objectivity, so that they can get out of that story, because now they're going to tell me what you don't want us in Parliament to do all that. In order to be more objective, and in Europe, since we are constantly invited to Croatia, so little Serbia, little London, so this one, you even have the president of a country, the king of a country, to appoint an auditor and that's the person who does it. I did not mean to delete the Presidency because here it was given enough to the House of Representatives, or the Parliamentary Assembly, has great powers, the control mechanism, but let's not round up the whole process, that it all starts in this House and ends up, because the majority of Parliament is a product of mathematics that it has, and the Office of Audit should have independence. And, in my opinion, the presidency should be in this vicinity. We took his jurisdiction over the past law, they don't, they've got 10-20% left, but believe it's in the function of a better and more objective audit office. Why am I saying all this? When the presidency had 90% ingenuity on this law, it received a negative opinion from the Audit Office. He supported Dom's opinion. Normally, they weren't doing well, and that was the review office's report. Will anyone, if we delete the Presidency, ever from the Audit Office to squeeze the loop, which our people say, write something negative, because there's a cadiya suing you, cadiya sues you. That's the solution without saying, another lever that has, which doesn't matter but it has to exist. And that's why I'm asking you not to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21219	Thank you. Azra Hadžiahmetović, Dr Gligorić, and Dušanka Majkić, then a chimpanzee.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21220	I'm really surprised. I would like someone here to explain to me how the objectivity of the Audit Office is achieved if the Bureau appoints auditors? That, however, suggests in general what the Presidency will do in the audit unless it is subject to review.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21221	Unless it's subject to review. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21222	I'm sorry, but I really mean, what objectivity, the presidency that determines the principles of human policy and appoints auditors. I mean, I think it's about time, that this Parliament, too, especially when it comes to institutions that need to be run by the principles of the profession, are really inorientating and handling the interdepartmental and when it comes to amendments to the law, by the principle of preference of the profession. I'd really like to see, with the full respect of the current presidency's summons, or whatever I think, what the Presidency is going to do and what objectivity is achieved with the Presidency. And even more so, I can give you a thousand and one argument that it is precisely in favour of the objectivity of the Office of Audit, which should be professionally doing its jobs. And I'm sorry, maybe I'm a little emotional, speaking as an economist, I guess most of them here understand me. And I'm really surprised, if there's any reason for the Presidency to be in this or in some other segment, when it comes to the appointment of expert bodies at the state level, then let's explain it fatly, but don't let the flossulas achieve objectivity by dragging the Bureau into the appointment of the Office of Audit Management. Thank you, excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21223	I thank my colleague Hadžiahmetović. Dr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, slowly, slowly, let's get out of here when it comes to the presidency. I believe that Parliament should lead this work from the moment the competition is called and until the elections are held. I find it unnecessary to introduce the Presidency into this institute for a reason, we recently had a problem with this relationship between this home and the Presidency, and at the same time tomorrow, if we could leave that possibility in the sense that we would finish our part of the job, that the Bureau would propose candidates for auditors, that we would at the same time reject it and why we would need unnecessary leprosy on that route. I believe that parliamentary control is the meaning of democracy, and that is why this issue should be addressed exclusively by us in Parliament, and we do not need any indirect authority, so in this case neither the Presidency, I think even that this issue is incompatible with the powers that the Presidency has and that we do not need to comment there, it is too much to comment on. This second amendment to Mrs. Sopta that talks about the certificate, I've had a chance to talk about it before. I think that we must have a unique principle when we talk about auditors, about three auditors, that they must have the same conditions, cannot be taken into account, should not be questioned that we have different approaches because they represent the Institute of Audit and that responsibility and they are not, not wearing that individual mandate, in which case and should be taken into account. Here, perhaps, we should point out this, that we are saying that in that Article 3 and Article 8 of the Law that speaks of this comprehensive knowledge, when we talk about auditors, about this one broad knowledge. Then we have a problem if the need for law school, which means j... in a direct relationship with the application for certificates because it discriminatoryly affects lawyers, in a concateous case from the RS. Because one of these rules excludes Article 3.8 of this law and puts it in an unequal position. This should be taken into account when proposing the meaning of this amendment. 75 He is also discriminatory in case some university professors report, who would apply that they do not have a certificate. They would thus be disqualified from being able to apply. Then the difference between the audit and the public administration and the commercial sector should also be taken into account here, it is indeed obvious. These certificates we now have, which are given here in Mostar, etc., they're commercial and this is the public sector, it's a big difference and we need to keep that in mind. Next, well, what is now being betrayed is being issued exclusively, so it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter where it is, but it's being issued for these commercial purposes because it's not being issued by the state agencies, we'll agree to that, right? No, the state agency is talking about something we set up, and I think we should respect that, not the state agency now, come to Mostar in East Sarajevo, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21225	I'm asking you to allow your colleague to finish his dispersion, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21226	I can have the dialogue and everything. We don't even have these standardized meanings of the conditions we're talking about and we have to have 'cause right now it would go wrong, important with this certificate. And that's why I think this is where I'm supposed to be taken care of, so I made a note of myself, and I'm thinking
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21227	I beg you, colleague Gligorić, do not hesitate, continue the discussion please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21228	I don't mind, it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21229	No, it's okay. I've got a session to run.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21230	Man can also work under difficult conditions
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21231	That's how it is. I'm against everyone. You know, the old positioner's always learned against everyone for years. Therefore, I don't think this amendment should be accepted, so I don't think there should be any more comments, that it's quite enough. What I heard as an argument, I respect it, but there's no reason to support it. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21232	Thank you. kolegica Majkić has a replica, then a debate between Ćeman, Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21233	One sentence at a time. As far as we've come with the dignity of this home, he speaks in favor, and the MPs themselves do not believe that we will successfully finish this job but should leave it to someone else, he will do it better. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21234	Thank you. A colleague of mine, Mirsad Ćeman, answered for his word. Ljilja Milićević here, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21235	I don't really know... For 5 years, it means not 5 but 6 pardons, years, we've come to the vote of the Law on the Audit of Institutions. Now everyone's in wonder, which anyone's going to wonder, except for this home. I remind you October 16. In '99, a Financial Business Audit Act was adopted by the BiH institution, which wrote, the auditor-general appointed the Presidency exclusively with the previous consent of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes. And no one had a headache because we've been asking ourselves this question for six years. Now, from once on, it's a miracle it's not 100% here. I checked, never a single amendment to this law has been passed in six years. And it's all about us and the relationship to the laws. And please, for the opposition, for the difficult working conditions, we should somehow benefit from the benefits of the internship, as they complain.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21236	Please, no more replicas if there's no need. Let's get this serious, we've still got a lot of work to do, we'll be working till half the night. So, fellow Ćeman. Don't please, colleague Gligorić, there's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21237	I actually have one question only to Mrs. Majkić as a proposal for an amendment. I find this solution acceptable and this is the last thing that my colleague Milićević said, in fact, says that Parliament seems to have fought for more rights than it had in particular on this issue, so he moved the centre of decision-making from the Presidency in Parliament. So he's doing a little more fighting for his influence. Of course, this one, we can look at it differently, but the last sentence from your amendment, Col. Majkić, says the proposal is based on the candidate list. I suppose here is the intention to necessarily respect the order first, etc. There's something that's right, in the event of a dilemma called historical interpretation. I'd like it to stay marked, to think of it. For if, indeed, this can be understood differently, that it is based on the ranking list, therefore anyone on the ranking list can be considered. So your intensity was that when the score procedure is carried out, there, the first one, goes necessarily into the proposal. I just wanted to, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21238	Thank you. A colleague named Momčilo Novaković was marketing the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21239	Dear Chairman, I must say I am surprised by Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović's surprise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21240	Thank you. If there's a need, you appreciate it, go ahead. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21241	I don't really intend to surprise anyone else. I think the best colleague Ljiljana Milićević will explain to her colleagues what objectivity means in the audit process. But I had a need to react to part of my colleague Gligorić's discussion. There is no revision of the commercial sector and the public sector. Please don't, the auditor is doing his audit work in the sector no matter which sector.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21242	It hasn't come to Doboj yet. Minister Ljerka Marić
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21243	I just want to tell you, we're the legislator. We remain with our proposal especially for the discussion in Article 24, not to defend amendments to life, of course, is it. As for Article 24, which defines the appointment of the Auditor-General and the Vice-General of the Auditor-General, we remain exclusively in our proposal as written in the law. Therefore, the Bureau in the procedure of proposing, i.e. proposing, in fact, future auditors and general auditors.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21244	We thank the minister. We would like to thank the minister for the clear position of the pronoun. Who's next to the word? We're done arguing. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded the debate. Let's go make a statement about the amendments. Prepare to vote. Let's go from the amendments to Mrs. Dužanka Majkić. Amendment I, in Article 24(1), amends and amends the words of the auditor-general and the deputy general auditor-general appointed the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on a proposal from the Commission for the selection and appointments referred to in Article 3 of this article. The proposal is based on the candidate list. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Please vote and not confuse each other. So, for 19, against 11, 3 abstentions. We have most of each other. This amendment by Mrs Dušanka Majkić has been accepted. We're moving on to a statement on the amendment and Mrs. ruža Sopta. Amendment I, in Article 23, under point (a) behind the words of the Faculty of Law, shall be inserted, the text shall be added – the certificate of the authorised auditor, instead of the public administration and the word – Public Administration should be stood. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 16, against 13, 3 abstentions. 12 from the Federation, 4 from the RS. There's no entity majority left to match. We don't have a Šefik We can't agree. Let’s make a statement about the Law in the second reading at the second session. We can't, so we're not done with it. We can't, we can't, we have to get along. We need 78 to finish the amendments and then vote afterwards on the law. So, all that remains is the vote on the amendment and the alignment. Ladies and gentlemen, we've come to terms with the 12th point, Ad.12. Proposal for a Law on the Directorate for indirect taxation, the first reading of the proposal for this law, the Council of Ministers, delivered to Parliament on 10 October 2005, with a request for a procedure under Article 104. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 13 October. At the 69th session, the home adopted a request for a procedure. On 28 November, the Commission responsible for finance and the budget requested an extension of the deadline for considering the draft law in order to clarify the amendments. We received a report from the Finance and Budget Commission on 16 December. You saw the Commission adopt 27 amendments. At the plenary stage, we have no amendments. I am encouraged by the service to inform you that the different marks on the language versions of the draft law, so that there is no confusion about the amendments adopted by the Commission, please take the Commission's report and follow me. The difference is only in the Croatian version. So in Amendment V point g) in the Croatian version is point ð. In amendment X point j) in Croatian version is code f). In Amendment XI, point e), and in Croatian version is point c). In Amendment XV, point j) is in Croatian point f. And, in amendment XXV, point g) is in Croatian point ð. So it's just that language versions attitude, no so moving in text but just in, it's an amendment not an article. Amendment V How could they not?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21246	All the versions are gone, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21247	I'm asking you, so I can just level this out, so there won't be any language interpretations by respecting it. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, I find that with 30 votes for, no one against, no one abstention, we passed the proposal for a law on indirect taxation, first reading. There were no additional amendments, the request for re-defense at the plenary session. I ask the question of who is it to move on to reading this law in the second reading, to move on to another reading? 79 Prepare to vote. Vote now. So I find that with 37 votes for, against no one, one abstention, we have accepted the proposal to discuss the Law in the second reading. I'm getting rid of the debate. No one's answering the question. Prepare to vote. Vote now, on the draft law on indirect taxation management in the second reading. So I find that, unanimously, with 29 votes in favour, we have adopted the Law on indirect taxation in the second reading, and thus obtained the conditions to move to the 13th point of the agenda, Add.13. Proposal for a law on the protection of personal data, first reading This legislative proposal has been in parliamentary procedure since 22 July 2005. He was considered in a regular procedure. Opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission was delivered on 15 September 2005. The Constitutional-Pave Commission is the committee responsible for examining this law. The committee's report was also delivered on November 2nd. The Commission adopted 3 amendments. At the plenary stage, an amendment wants to defend MP Filip Andrić. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. There's a supplemental report. What's extra?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21248	Corrections were made, since there were some misunderstandings of technical nature.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21249	And who asked for a supplemental report? So please nicely, so we have received one report and the supplemental report can only be requested by Parliament, the commission itself cannot give an additional report. We need to see business. I don't know, this is the first time I've seen it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21250	Therefore, the Commission adopted one amendment but, when drawing up the report, that amendment involved interventions in the text of a number of members of the law itself, so this supplementary report is actually just no-technical clarifications of that amendment, and today we have verified this in mind at the Commission's session. So in that sense, it's a supplemental report. So, it's not about any of this, not about any difference compared to the previous report, it's about the purely legal nomotechnic precision of that report that you received earlier.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21251	I, please now, which is, now I have to ask business, this is the first time we have a commission report, so we have an amendment phase, which is, by law, we have therefore Filip Andrić's request to defend one amendment and now we have a Commission supplemental report. I beg you, here you go, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, this is unclear to me. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21252	Please, obviously it's a confusion and if this confusion had been a few moments ago, probably some MPs, I'll say right away, the BiH Party's MPs wouldn't say we're going to another reading today. I propose that we postpone the statement in the second reading for the next session and, in the meantime, the Commission deliver the consolidated text of the Report and that we declare it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21253	Can we support the proposal, I am closer to this proposal by colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović than to make any mistake. So, to get the Commission out with a unique one, you see we have here a supplemental report which did not ask for Parliament. So, I'm asking you, just to help me. So, I have a dilemma. So, a report by the committee responsible was delivered on November 2nd. The Commission adopted 3 amendments. At the plenary stage, Mr. Filip Andrić wants to defend his amendment. We have now received, therefore, an additional report on the proposal for the protection of personal data, so the Commission's supplementary report on its proposal. Niko one asked. I beg you, so I think it's best if the Commission sits down before the plea and before the second reading to level this. Please quietly try, you can, come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21254	So let's try to get out of this situation. Maybe it's clumsyly said, extra. In fact, it is only a correction of the existing report in accordance with the technical regulations. And so it's about the report, not some supplemental report. It's the same report. And we can make that clear. There's no need for that. Well, it's not a problem, toots, we can do it next time, but basically we're gonna lose time because it's about one correction to an existing report.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21255	Was the Commission unique in the supplementary report?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21256	Yes, of course. It wasn't a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21257	Was she unique? If it was a single Commission, just so there's no post-polemics, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21258	Well, you know I'm usually there against it, so when I say so, then it can go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21259	No, no, please, just a minute. Please be patient.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21260	The opposition is trusted 81
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21261	My kolegica Hadžiahmetović, since the Commission was unanimous in technical, therefore in technical corrections, can we not break the law because we have only one amendment to the plenary phase, to accept this as a report from the Commission, technical corrections? So, as a definitive report, with Mr. Andrić's amendment remaining in plenary? Do we agree? Is there a debate about the law, about principles? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. So, we vote, we repeat, we vote on the proposal for a law on administration, no, the bill on amendments to the law, you took it from me. The proposal, we vote, therefore, prepare for the vote, we vote on the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data, first reading. Vote now. For 31, against no one, abstentioned no one. So we passed a bill on the protection of personal data in the first reading. I ask the question, we only have one amendment from Mr. Filip Andrić who wants to defend. Who's in favor of discussing the Law in a second reading? Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 32, against no one, abstention 2. So I find that we have adopted a proposal to discuss this law in a second reading. Who is it? I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We declare the amendment of Mr Filip Andrić, where it is said, in Article 37, paragraph 1 is amended and read – the headquarters of the Agency is in Mostar. Prepare to vote on the amendment. Vote now. For 18, versus 14, abstention 2. We don't have most of the Federation. Thus, it remains for alignment both with that and with the Law in the second reading. We must leave for the next session, although it was the mood of us from the College to plead today. I'm sorry. We're going to the 14th item of the agenda, Ad.14. A bill on consumer protection for BiH, the first reading of the Council of Ministers on 30 September, submitted a bill on consumer protection with a proposal to consider it in a regular procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 13 October. The Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum is responsible, which delivered the report on 21 November this year. You saw that the committee in charge adopted two amendments. At the plenary stage, 5 amendments want to defend the MP, Tihomir Gligorić. 82 I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Who's answering for a word? Dušanka Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21262	The UN General Assembly adopted Resolution 39/248 of '85. the year is a guideline for consumer protection. This prompted countries, members of the legislative organisation of this area, as the development of institutions that will inform consumers, teach, and effectively protect their rights. The European countries, signatories of the Treaty of Rome, brought to the end of '73 the European Charter of Information and Consumer Protection with a Consumer Rights Programme consisting of, the rights to protect economic interests, the rights to protection against life, health and property in the purchase of products and services on the market, the rights to legal protection and support of the state, the right to inform and train consumers, the right to association in order to protect the interests of consumers, and the right to represent in bodies that resolve matters of interest for consumers. Since then, there has been a very rich consumer protection legislation in the EU. And what is it like in Bosnia and Herzegovina? We know that in 2002, BiH received the Consumer Protection Act, but these laws did not provide consumers with any special protection mechanism, so according to this, the adopted Law was lacking, with many aspects. Like. aid in obtaining compensation, intermediation in the exercise of citizens' rights, etc. This bill offers an Ombdusman institution for consumer protection, a solution that has been taken over from EU comparative law. The common feature of modern democratic states is the protection of economically weaker parties in business transactions on the market, and therefore consumer protection laws in those countries are protected only by natural persons, so consumers when buying products and services, for their non-professional purposes, are for personal and family use.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21263	I'm asking you to listen to each other, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21264	For this reason, I believe it is necessary to support the principles of this law because it represents a dam against harsh traders and poor quality products, because the Institute for Consumer Protection is being introduced to provide consumers with access to a simple, fast, efficient and cheap court to resolve consumer disputes, because the adoption of this law is one of the 16 conditions provided for in the Implementation Study approved by the European Commission in order to conclude the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, because the proposal for a law is in line with EU directives. Finally, I believe that the principles of this law should be supported because this law represents a positive and significant step towards European integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21265	Thank you, is there anyone else who would like to discuss reading about the principles? He doesn't want anyone. We're closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. He'll be protected if he has anything to spend, that's for sure. 83 So, I realize that with 25 votes for, no one against, one abstention, we passed the Bill on the Protection of Consumers of BiH in the first reading. Since we have 5 amendments and which Mr. Dr. Gligorić wants to baratine in the plenary phase, I ask you who's in favour of moving on to another reading? Prepare to vote. Vote now. - For 22, 3 against, abstention 4.. I konstatovati that we have agreed to move to another reading, related to the Bill on Consumer Protection of BiH. I'm opening a debate. Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Let's make a statement about Dr Gligorić's amendments. Is there any need to read the amendments? You have them in front of you. Prepare to vote on the amendment and Dr Gligorić. Vote now. - So, for 14, versus 12, abstention 3. We don't, we have RS, we don't have the Federation and most of them. It will be agreed on Amendment number I. Prepare to vote on Amendment number II. Vote now. So for 10, against 14.5 abstentions. I find Amendment II not acceptable. We are going to vote on Amendment III. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - For 10, against 16, 4 abstentions. I also find that the third amendment has not been accepted. Prepare to vote on Amendment IV.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21266	There's no microphone on... I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21267	Mr Gligorić withdraws amandman IV and v.. I zahvaljivati you but the amendment I remains unanimity and thus remains a declaration of the Law in the second reading and amendment I for the next session. Moving to the 15th point of the agenda, that's Ad.15. The draft law amending the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina in its first reading This legislative proposal was submitted to us on 14 July 2005. It's being considered in regular procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 16 September. The competent, also 84 Constitutional and Legal Commission reports we received on 2 November. The Commission supported the proposal for a law in the proposed text and concluded that even at the commission stage, there were no amendments. I'm opening a debate. Comrade Filip Andrić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21268	Thank you, Mr. President. This Proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council requires that jurisdiction over the appointment of judges for the offence, judges, as I do not know correctly, be transferred to the High Court Prosecutor's Council from the jurisdiction of municipal assemblies, i.e. county councils, where. I think it's contrary to the fundamental principle of the structure of this state, or decentralisation of the state, to the extent that it's centralized, I think it's absurd and out of my mind. It's on one side. On the other hand, I would like to say that so far the trust received by the High Court and Prosecutor's Council has not justified its work on basic courts and county courts. Especially in the Federation, or in our counties. I remind you that on two occasions behind this pay phone, I asked the High Court Prosecutor's Council to bring its decision on the appointment of judges and prosecutors in Herceg-Bosnia County in line with the Constitution. That's what I've been looking for for for two years, so I've been renewing on several occasions, but I haven't received a deal, nor have they done anything about it, according to my initiative. And I remember that it's a county in which, according to the census, in '91, the majority Croatian population lives, and just to remind you, to give you information that now the state of the prosecution and in the judiciary is such that of the 4 prosecutors, it's only 1 Hrvat and not the chief prosecutor. Of the four judges in the county court, he is only 1 Hrvat and is not the president of the court. The High Judicial Prosecutor's Council has persistently disobeyed our objections and assumptions, so I believe that they are least independent and that they are working on someone's guidance and did not justify our expectations. So I don't think they deserve to be given any further into jurisdiction and courts for violations. So I call on my fellow MPs to reject this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21269	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So I find that with 20 votes in favour of, 4 against, 3 abstentions, we have adopted the draft law amending the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina in its first reading. Since there were no amendments to the commission phase, I'm asking the question, who's for us to move on to another reading? Eighty-five prepare to vote? Vote now. So for 21, versus 1, abstention 1. I konstatovati that we have made a decision to discuss this law in a second reading. I'm opening a debate. Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I therefore conclude that, with 23 for, 2 against, 2 abstentions, we have adopted the draft law amending the Law on the High Skud and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, in a second reading. And thus obtained the conditions to move to the 16th point of the agenda. That's Ad.16. The draft pardon law, the first reading of the Council of Ministers on 3 October 2005, submitted to Parliament a bill of pardon requiring consideration under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. The 69th session adopted a proposal. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 13 October. The Constitutional and Legal Commission, whose report we received, is competent on 22 November 2005. The Commission found that there were no amendments to the draft law and unanimously accepted the text of the law in the proposed ext. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate and calling for you to prepare for the vote. Vote now. So I find that with 26 votes for, no one against, two abstentions, we have accepted the bill of pardon in the first reading. Given that there was no amendment in the commission phase, I'm asking who's for us to move on to another reading? Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that with 23 votes for, no one against, two abstentions, we have accepted the proposal to discuss in the second reading on the draft pardon law. I'm opening a dispersion. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So I find that with 27 votes for, no one against, two abstentions, we have accepted the draft pardon law in the second reading. 86 We move to the 17th point of the agenda, that's Ad.17. The draft law amending the Law on Public Procurement, first reading on 18 September of this year, the Council of Ministers submitted the draft law to the parliamentary procedure requiring consideration under Article 104. At the 70th session, a request for an emergency procedure, the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, was passed on November 22nd. The Commission for Finance and Budget shall be responsible. A report from the committee responsible was delivered on November 28th. You saw that the committee in charge accepted the law in the proposed text and that there were no amendments in the commission phase. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Mr. Križanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to point out one fact here, which is that this third amendment is the addition of this law. It is always stated that the establishment and appointment of the Public Procurement Agency and appeal offices has not been carried out within a certain legal period. So this is cited as the reason for this amendment and the addition of the law, and nowhere is it said why it has not been done so far. You see, for a year this law has been in force, we still don't have the Public Procurement Agency and the Board of Appeals. In today's agenda, today's session is the appointment of this, this complaint office. So, today we're going to name probably the Ironing Office, we're still not going to have an agency. I've really pointed out several times on a very easy decision-making here at home on a request to extend certain deadlines. We never got much of an explanation why it's not done. You see, that's all three months' extension. So let's just make sure that this law applies until it's filled, I think we're just wasting our time here. We have no effect. At least I'd like to, if we can get from a representative of the Council of Ministers an explanation why doesn't this seem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21271	I thank my colleague Križanović. Here's a word from Minister Ljerka Marić, wants to explain.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21272	We really apologize to Parliament for this sort of thing, Mr. Križanović, is largely right. The agency is formed. Meanwhile, the director was appointed, a competition was announced for other jobs. The board of directors has been established. They have rooms, etc. So they're budget users for next year which you'll see in the 2006 budget. Unfortunately, this complaint office has still not been formed. If you find out today, you vote members for the appeal office, and tomorrow, if God gives us the House of Peoples, so we're 87 done and we don't need an extension anymore. If this is not voted out, then it should really be re-expunged to extend the validity of the law, because in that case the appeal-solving authorities have entities' finance and state finances until this office is established to consider complaints. That's it. So if this doesn't go out today and tomorrow, I don't know when the People's House is, then it'll all end. But all the time we've been living in hope it'll be next session, but there it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21273	Thank you. Dr. Crescent. Kunić asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21274	I would like to give my support to Mr Križanović and his remarks. Personally, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think the biggest crime is being conducted through tenders and public procurement. And it's too serious to work this way with this law. Millions are taken through public procurement. I really have no idea what to do about it, but I think that some body of this House should be dealt with more seriously. The law is completely empty and hollow. Allows malversions from all sides. And it requires serious consideration for serious people to sit down to consider all aspects of these public procurements and to look at the gaps, which are variants that give the possibility of malfeasance and crime being conducted under the auspices of that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21275	Thank you. Who's still answering for the word? Ljilja Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21276	It is precisely this item of the agenda that was subsequently included in the agenda this morning. We have had a point which is also the next to amend the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, proposed by Mr Muhamed Moranjkić. By considering the meaning of the law, we are all witnessing a number of requests for opinions on the Law on Public Procurement, Interpreting and Different Proposals. I want to connect this point to the next item of the agenda and say that the Finance and Budget Commission is aware of the situation of these numerous proposals, amendments and additions and a lot of ambiguity in the existing legislative solution. So maybe she found something, tried to actually find a solution, and that's in the next item of the agenda. You have one conclusion with a report from the Commission proposing to the House to adopt a conclusion saying under (a) of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is required to make a consolidated text of the Public Procurement Act, and to consider all the proposals submitted for amending and supplementing this law in order to deliver a comprehensive amendment and supplementing the Public Procurement Act as soon as possible in Parliament's procedure. So this was before it came. 88 And the second was to ask the Council of Ministers of BiH and other relevant institutions to set up public procurement agencies as soon as possible. Why did you set it up? It's not enough to give an office, name a director. So to live, it actually means that we have a place to ask a question, get an answer, and do their job. So this is what we suggested by considering this law by Mr. Moranjkić. I think it also refers to this, and in part to Mr. Križanović's discussion of what was said here, so here I'm saying I think the House will have to make a statement on this conclusion. We've been predicting this for the next item of the agenda, but this is how I'm going to ask you to support this conclusion that addresses these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21277	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm closing the debate and prepare to vote. Vote now. - For 17.4 against, abstentions 3, so the draft law amending the Public Procurement Act was given to the majority. I'm asking a question, since there were no amendments to who it was for us to move on to another reading. Vote now. - So we have a majority, 23 votes in, three against, one abstention. Let's go to another reading. I'm opening a debate. Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - So for 23.7 against, no one abstention. We have most of the entity. I find that the draft law amending the Law on Public Procurement was adopted in a second reading. We're going to the 18th point, that's Ad.18. The draft law supplementing the Law on Public Procurement of BiH with the Commission's Report on Finance and Budget /Proposer of the Law, Mr Muhamed Moranjkić/ Mr Moranjkić, submitted a draft law in 15.9.2005 requiring consideration under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. A request for emergency procedures was adopted at the 66th session. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 30.9.2005. The Commission for Finance and Budgetary Report delivered on 28 November. You've seen that the report from the committee in charge is negative. So we're discussing and deciding on a report from the committee responsible. So if the report is passed the law has fallen, if the report is not passed the law goes into further procedure. That's the procedure. I'm obliged to warn you. 89 I'm opening a debate. Here you go, pal Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear fellow Members of Parliament, for my discussion and participation in this House I have made two three times, and I've gotten the impression that I should write a bouquet for you to at least paint a little bit, as Mr. Kunić has just said. Considering this a problem today, which was staged in the final phase by the Bosnian Herzegovina robbery of the state and the people, and called as an MP to an economic organization where I was presented, and there I found a set of experts and minds of this country, where they presented how and how the country is robbed, we saw that each day goes into the pockets of certain individuals groups and options hundreds and tens of millions of marks. Every day. We watched how we tried to temporarily shut up and the best proposal was to intervene with the Public Procurement Act in the shortest lines where the economic and financial side got and processed Dr. Professor. Izudin Kešetović, today's top financial expert, current chairman of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Finance Committee and economic issues until recently, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Finance Minister and lecturer of this case at four universities. When we staged it, I didn't even suspect it, of course it had to go over me you for you levels, we didn't even know we were going to hit an ax that didn't have axes, but horns, and there was such an alarm that it was that my head hurt, and my phone got warmed up.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21279	Drop the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21280	That's exactly how it was supposed to be. The problem has been seen by the commission as well. She saw that she too needed to get out of this storm and sought the opinion of the Honorable Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers delivered its opinion. That opinion was hidden by two members of the commission, given not. One of them stayed, looked a little bit at the diaphragm. So the commission vote was 2 for, 2 against and 1 abstention. Right, in the end, it's negative that omen, but for the record, it was tense. Please, dear colleagues, I said the result of such a vote is the opinion of the Council of Ministers, so I returned that opinion to that respected expert and listen to what the expert says for an opinion that is really beyond reason, which is lax, which reflects the complicity in the most orthodox crime committed today in this country. According to the expert, Article 1 is now needed and represents the meaning of amending and supplementing the applicable public procurement law in Bosnia. It is therefore illogical for Article 5(2) to apply. The law was contrary to the supplement, because it is the essence of awarding concessions in the achievement of public incomes which do not have fiscal character, but original or own on the basis of an indication of their own property, or property by the state. The ministry says that, in its comment, it is now the complexity of the state that holds such a law on. The professor goes on to say -- that's exactly the condition of a decentralised system that stems from so many cantons, so many entities, etc., which is 14. The Law on Public Procurement in order to monitor the same to ensure that such a broken system of concession rights is at least in one place seen and distributed. 90 To conclude, concession or concession law is not only a purpose, but is the essence of applying this right through a public procurement system where the state can effectively exercise public income control based on these original, or own incomes. And it is illogical not to require, among other things, paid concessions on the material being built on. And, please be asked if he paid for three PIO workers, because in his opinion, he will say that concessions are made, followed by other laws. Do not the PIO follow other laws? So what parts of the fening are going through aren't necessary. They're being taken into a tender, and those going through millions of marks, they're protecting themselves from what they're saying is that it's a crime race against certain, or a complete lack of knowledge of certain matter. If this issue were to be brought into co-ordinating with the acquisition of public income, and the tax burden shifted from the back of citizens to the function of the state, as a good manager, then the reasoning given on the basis of this amendment would be reduced to the fact that, contrary to what is stated in the explanation of the procurement law, it follows the Law on concessions, makes it essentially and fundamentally, rather than vice versa, that it is rejected and that it is a reason not to accept these amendments. At that time, the concession law also receives a purpose without which the dead letter is on paper, and the bond which is at the expense of public interest, and not in the function of economic interest, would be at the very least a crime and would be subject to strict sanctions, if there are states. It is also unfounded that the proposed addition of the law is contrary to the basic settings of the law, i.e. contrary to Article 5 of the same law where concessions are found to be awarded in accordance with the Law on concessions. That's true and no one denies it. On the contrary, the proposed amendments do not affect the procedure for granting concession rights, but only seek to achieve the purpose of the public procurement law set out in Article 1(1) and Article 1 point (c) of this law through the obligation of the contractual authorities to take all necessary measures to ensure fair active competition among potential suppliers with the achievement of equal treatment of non-discrimination and transparency. It is the proposed amendment that achieves that purpose for which the ministry's position is not to be accepted in order to place itself in an unfavourable position of tenderers who do not meet the conditions for compliance with concession obligations, tax-based obligations and contributions. On the contrary, We would favour those who do not pay the covenant of the state according to these rights. And he doesn't know just one expert like that wonders that he finds places to explain it. Furthermore, if you read, your hair would run away from your head, so I will refrain, but I will tell you that what is imposed is typical obstructions of moral and legal work and proper law enforcement, justice and justice in this area. This is just saying and confirming that the lack of the Public Procurement Act is not an accident. On the contrary, both he and some of the laws surrounding him were just designed to legalise the crime that is today the final crime in this country, which is the robbery of economic resources in this country. That's all that's left, we robbed the money, we robbed the factories, there's still hills, woods of water and air. I wonder, therefore, whether this Parliament or these people in this House will accept these absurd views and opinions which, you see from the most valuable experts, are characterized like this, and I'm the only part of it I've brought out. At the same time, I wonder – why is such a resistance to supplementing this law which only said deliver and confirm that you have paid the concession right. What's with all the resistance? I'm simply interested in it as a man, and then I found it, and it's simple and clear. Currently, illegal sources of millions of income are being lost that go into the pockets of criminals, criminal groups who designed it all, and today they are fighting for the same until the last day to stay that way. Every day is for charm, because every day there are dozens, hundreds of thousands of marks and millions. Well, isn't that more than a crime? Yes, it is. Against these changes, 91 can only be affected by alleged signs, or by their own sides, but both are either directly involved in crime, or are their helpers. Therefore, gentlemen Members of Parliament, my fellow Members, please do not accept the commission's report, it is in itself on the scale, because it has been extorted, vote for the law to at least suspend these two holes that millions of marks are going through temporarily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21281	Okay. You guys are gonna Momčilo around the hole, or you're gonna shut up. Here you go, Momčilo Novaković. I made a joke.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21282	Well, you see, I'm just about to vote against the commission's report, and then I get confused by my colleague, Moranjkić, when he says it can only be those who are in crime. I don't think you really need those qualifications, please. We don't define ourselves in that way, Mr. Moranjkić, who is in crime or against crime. We're the only ones voting.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21283	speak from a place, not turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21284	Mr. Moanjkić, we're the only ones voting. Unfortunately, you said the vote. We're the only ones who vote, and the others don't vote. So, I'm just saying that I'm not committed to these things, Mr. Moranjkić, but I'm convinced that there's something more to be achieved by this law in this area, and I think we're going to get better quality solutions. I think that's missing. And that is why I will support this proposal by Mr. Moranjkić, or I will be against the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21285	It'll be good support. Ljila and you will support it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21286	So these conclusions, which are an integral part of this report that I was saying earlier, I am asking that the House be made known also about the conclusions. This conclusion relating to this consolidated text of the Public Procurement Act
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21287	Well, we can't do Lilja's business. We declare the report of the law, not the conclusions. Please don't get into anything that is. Dom can consider it and come to a conclusion. We now have a report on the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21288	Part of this is reports and conclusions. 92
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21289	Yes, but we're not voting on the conclusions, we're voting on the report. Thank you very much. We have to do business. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, prepare to vote. We're voting on the commission's report. Vote now. Who supports Moranjkić must oppose the report. - So for 3, versus 21, abstention. I therefore conclude that this report has not been adopted by the Commission and the law goes into further procedure. He's returning to the commission for a new report based on what we've been listening to today. Moving to the 19th point of the agenda, Ad.19. A report by the Joint Commission on the effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Public TV Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina You have received a report from the Joint Commission on the alignment of the text of the Law on the Public TV Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The text of the law is in line with the adoption of eight amendments. So I'm opening a debate. Nobody's answering. Prepare to vote. We're voting on the report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - So 23, v. 5, abstention 2. I therefore kontatovati that the Commission's report has been adopted and that the Law on the Public TV Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted in the same text in both homes and thus we move to the 20th point of the agenda, that is, Ad.20. A report by the Joint Commission on the efforts of both homes to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic on the Roads to BiH You also received a report from the Joint Commission. The law on the basis of traffic security on BiH's roads is agreed by the adoption of 22 amendments. In addition to adopting this home report, the Joint Commission proposes to adopt the next conclusion -- it is asked by the BiH Council of Ministers to submit a report on the effects of the law to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly six months after the start of this law. I'm opening a debate. Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - So for 29, against no one, abstention 1. I konstatovati that we have adopted the text of the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on the Roads to BiH in the same text in both homes and thus the law has been passed. 93 We move to the 21st point of the agenda, that's Ad.21. The review office's report and the financial no, no, that's the point, so we're going to 22 now, right, to the 21st point of the agenda, that's Ad.21. The ad hoc report for the selection and appointment of the procedure for proposing members of the Election Commission of BiH from the Serbian, Bosniak and Croatian people As you know, we have adopted a conclusion when considering the previous report by the ad hoc commission on the implementation of the procedure for proposing members of the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina which we have committed to the ad hoc commission to deliver to Dom a full report on the selection of members of the Election Commission in the order of all three constituent nations. ♪ Hot commission delivered the report that you got today. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'll be in touch.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21290	Mr. Špirić, president of the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21291	Ladies and gentlemen, so we have finally received this report from the commission that we have been looking for and what we have now to find is that we have not asked for no reason, nor have we asked for this report, that unfortunately it has been stated and that we have therefore realized that we have made certain failures, and in this sense I congratulate the commission that has made an objective report and I think that no one is infallible and that we can all be wrong, but we parliamentarians have no right not to correct because we can feel the consequences of the mistakes we make. In this sense, it says that the process of proposing candidates for the appointment of members of the Election Commission of the Serb and Bosnian peoples has made the failures of a procedural nature. The Ad hoc commission did not meet in full as prescribed in Article 2.5 paragraph 5. Bosnia and Herzegovina's electoral law. It is said here that the second extension is not an actual failure, and we, as Parliament, have therefore appointed members of the Election Commission, must be determined if the failures have been made, and there is a decadent view of what we are doing. So can Parliament acknowledge that there are gaps and that it does not react, and therefore I ask that we try today to find an answer to that question. So we're not looking for a report from the commission that we just have it as paper, but to see if there's any possibility of missing IDs. Here's mine, my discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21292	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorić, then Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21293	It is also the purpose of the report that we show objectively whether things are right and that it is up to Parliament to decide as far as possible. I said that on the commission, and even some journalists, it seems 94 to me, and if it isn't for the three of us, or for the seven of us in that commission, that we're making decisions, that it's possible that two options are whether it's how this case ends, and that's that the ad hoc commission will do another interview with all the candidates who competed and another possibility to repeat the competition. There's no third option. I think it would be from this Parliament that it wouldn't be right if we disobeyed the report and said it doesn't matter what the mistakes were made. Indeed, and when it was that first report, I defended him because I didn't know and no one warned me from the services that logging us into that commission that it was such a big failure whether it was made as it was that a commission with five members worked, and it must work with seven when it comes to ranking candidates for the election commission. No Niko deliberately made that oversight, and we were all unanimously on the ad hoc commission when this report was made. We all agreed that it was a major failure, and that's why this report came to the commission. And he'd just say something about a time period why it didn't come. It's very difficult for us to put the quorum together. And you'll see, I'm not scaring anyone, you'll see that we're going to have big problems meeting in the seven-member band, because people have learned as the Council of Ministers appoints various working groups, people have learned to have compensation for that work. And we are composed of three different organizations and there are huge problems. I've got it, I'm not going to elaborate here what it is. People work where they are. You know, you get a regular M.O.P. in a community or city when a driver's fee is passed, and that's a good fee for the people on the board. These people learned how to do that. We're not. We heard it from them for the first time. We work at five six commissions in two three for a match and that's normal. But I'm telling you, it was a problem why we didn't make the report right away. We could have made the report in three days, but we couldn't put the quorum together until a few days ago, and you'll see there's a fresh date that we immediately put it into parliamentary procedure and I thank the College that it immediately placed this point, because next year is an election year and I ask fellow MPs to take a better look at whether it is better to go to a re-interview with all candidates, or call a new competition. I think the election commission has a lot of work to do, so they serve three very important laws such as the Law on the financing of political parties, conflict of interest and the election process itself. There's a new election law in preparation. They and that kind of logistics behave for another task force appointed by the Council of Ministers, so I think it would be better to go with a new interview. Although I don't have any interests or differing opinions if this parliament says we are discussing a new competition. But I think again it's the opinion and commission that in the second competition there were no failures. So I'd like it to apply to the first competition even though we put together the report as requested, looking for this House of Representatives for both competitions and for all three candidates.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21294	I thank my colleague Zorić. My colleague Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21295	You see, first of all, let me say that we've really been working this issue out for a long time, and we need to go to concrete suggestions. Since it is quite clear here that a procedural review has been made, or whatever you want, an injury, in the sense that the law is not violated, but an act means a commission to which the ad hoc commission, under which the ad hoc commission is working, I suggest that the 95 House of Representatives draw a conclusion by which it obliges the ad hoc commission to meet again and re-implement, in accordance with its acts, to propose a ranking list for the House of Representatives. So that's what removes practically what the commission didn't do.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21296	Thank you very much, Mr. Novaković. The word is made by the chairman of the dom, gospodin Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21297	On the trail of what counterparts Zorić and counterpart Novaković spoke about, so as Parliament, we now need to find something that will not expose us again to some criticism, and by reason of the criticism of the public. So the public should criticise us when we make mistakes, but if the report is exactly what it stands for, I have no doubt and therefore I say that the commission has made a good report in the process of proposing candidates for the appointment of members of the electoral commission of the Serb, Bosniak people, a failure of professional nature has been made. The Ad hoc commission did not meet in full as prescribed in Article 2.5 paragraph 5. BiH Election Law. So that member of the law was violated. I think it is more legally legal to call from Parliament's point of view to call a competition. All candidates report, so everyone can pick up and do interviews. It's the same as this. This is how it's gonna turn out to be avoided. So we are introducing a formally clean relationship between Parliament. So I'm up to this proposal and, of course, it's probably going to be two proposals. But I think this proposal avoids any speculation. So a new competition will be launched, which will include all those who want interviews and will be accepted. Maybe they're the same, maybe they're the other ones. I don't know. Therefore, if it is found here that an infringement of Article 2.5 paragraph 5 has been committed. Election law, then we must, therefore, is not respected election law. So a member's injury, if I understand that correctly. I'm not a lawyer. So it's cleaner for me to go then, and that's why I think one and another proposal to consider. New competition, people come forward. All will be interviewed as proposed in the second proposal. So the second proposal requires that interviews be renewed with everyone. Here in this competition can only be more candidates, but for me it's a cleaner variant. At least I think and I'll be supportive of that variant. Thank you very much. I don't mind these, either.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21298	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mr. Kunić answered for the word, so Mr. Jahić, as far as I am. The replica before Mr. Kunić, Mr. Novaković. 96
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21299	I just want to replicate Mr. Špirić. I don't think this proposal of mine can cause any doubt. So it's all about all the candidates who applied to the competition. All candidates will be invited. All candidates will be spoken to and a ranking list will be made. So, I don't see any reason for doubt. Mr Špirić, a member of the Electoral Law, is just talking about the fact that the commission has not respected the necessary legal provision under which it must have been in full composition. I just, so my proposal is only on the trail of what the commission has procedurally made a mistake in correcting that mistake. I'm not suggesting anything else. I believe that the opening of the competition will leave space exactly what Mr Špirić is saying that we will have a new 30 days so he will come forward, so we will probably have another 90 or 120 days in the Election Commission of a man who will feel unequal with the other members of the Election Commission, because there will be not one, but two under constant suspicion that they have been chosen in an irregular manner. So it's my desire to get elected as soon as possible, or those or others who are elected on a regular basis. So no ad hoc commission mistakes at all. That's my motive, which is why I suggest we go faster, and I don't think we're making any trouble.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21300	Thank you. Dr. Crescent. Kunić asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21301	...Glad it came to this because I was pushing for it to be done that one legal way and when the debate was last time I was just warning about those facts. I don't think there's any need to call a new competition. There's no need because there's no harm to the rules of competition. So in the election procedure, the rules of competition are not violated and there is no need to call a new competition, but it is necessary to ensure that the commission works at full capacity. So, with the capacity prescribed by the law. If we went to a new competition, it would mean that we could literally damage the participants in the first round of competitions and bring them back into one unequal position, not by our own fault, but by the Commission's guilt, therefore by the procedure that was carried out, and I think we need to go more correctly to get the commission back together only in full composition, full capacity and that proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21302	Thank you. The word was asked for by counterpart Jahić, then Zorić, then Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21303	Thank you. I'd like to say that I agree with these attitudes here's Professor. Kunić and Mr. Novaković. So here is a violation of a member of the Electoral Law of Chapter 2 that actually treats this procedure of electing members of the Electoral Commission. I'm a competition that includes both competitions and these interviews etc. As far as the competition itself is concerned, everything was regular and therefore the breach in the procedure was made after that. So, from the interview on. So, I don't think there's any need to do that, especially when we're in this time right now, here we are now, so in early April 97 we need to literally announce the election. Since we have this experience, we work in this task force to make the Electoral Law, it really takes these new people a few months to come in to say if they can track all the activities. So that's one thing. And another thing. I'm interested now, I don't think I know who to really ask that question, so what is it now that we make this decision, these members of the election, these now elected members of the Election Commission, are they stopping this moment's term?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21304	If the law is broken
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21305	Well, he's hurt. Let's see what it is. So I support this attitude of Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21306	Okay, there'll be two bets. No problem. Thank you. So there'll be a two-seat crystallization. We'll make a statement about them, and it may not take too many replicas. So, my colleague Zorić wanted to. Is it a replica? No, I don't. Okay. I'm a colleague of the Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21307	I just wanted to express my agreement with those who think legally and feel that in this situation things should just go back to the moment when the law was broken. Therefore, the Commission's composition of the decision at a given time is procedural. Anything else would also be misbehaving. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21308	Thank you. A colleague of Avdić. Thank you. Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21309	I may make things a little more complicated, but in general any election procedure when seen as a whole – the competition is one part of the election process. If an entire election procedure has made some mistake, it will be restored. I'm just afraid we won't make a mistake. It might be a good idea if the Committee on the Legal Commission and I don't know anyone who really understands that before we possibly decide on something not to make an additional mistake, that we might have legal interpretation of the legal affairs.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21310	This is where dr. Hadžiahmetović two bet. One is a re-competition, the other is to renew the procedure. So that's almost crystallized, so we're going to get to the bottom of each other. And I'm not going in now, I want to avoid the polemics of each other. He's a colleague of Suljkanović. Huskić, I apologize. Huskić, I'm sorry. Martin disaved me. 98
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21311	I wanted to, I want to say something, I think we're discussing the consequences here, I think it's the cause of the law. That's my opinion. I'm not a lawyer, but there's a lawyer here. I think that in law we have laid down too strict conditions that we cannot objectively meet in practice. We have two cases. One thing the commission can't do, here's counterpart Zorić as chairman of the committee said it's hard to get seven people from different places, that's one thing. And the other thing in the second part when it comes to the candidate from the Croatian people again is the competition because no one, no candidate, has reported to meet the conditions of the competition. I think it might be convenient, since we already have a situation like this to think a little bit about any changes to the law to make things a little easier to come up with a solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21312	It's over now. Please, there's more debates. There isn't. We're closing. So, ladies and gentlemen of the debate, there have been two positions. One that should therefore repeat the conversation with all candidates who have applied for the competition, and the other is to repeat the competition as a whole. We'll vote on one and the other. So I'm putting the first motion to a vote. So get ready to vote. Please. Here you go, so you gave up.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21313	I said it wasn't a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21314	Okay. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21315	I'm sorry to hear from you the second time. I wouldn't want anyone to vote here for any political motives. Kunić said one good thing here that if a re-competition occurs that we only harm those who complained. So to those who complained. You see, none of those who didn't compete were complaining that something was wrong and that's why he didn't compete. Only those who competed were just complaining, and the procedure really wasn't, they're right. And for that reason, I will vote for the first proposal. For no other reason. But it won't really be hard for me to do that job again, no matter what, it's really hard to get us together. We have come here several times, the three of us from Parliament come and the people one or two from the electoral commission, but these from this high court and prosecutorial council are very difficult to bring. I think so.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21316	I thank my colleague Zorić. I beg you not to return the debate we have concluded. 99 Dr. I Kunić you wanted a replica or something. And don't, please don't let the others in. We've closed the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21317	I wanted to say one thing that appears in this House. Today we had a vote that was anti-legal. The chairman is obliged to take care of the legality of Parliament's work. Today we had an eclectic act of breaking the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21318	Can I know which one?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21319	Well, we had it in indirect taxation. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21320	You didn't get a good look at dr. I Kunić. I will call you the Council of Ministers Act where it is said that the Council of Ministers is responsible for indirect taxation not vice versa. But, let's not open the debate, we're done. You can ask that question I'm not running away.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21321	We're not going back to that now. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21322	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21323	Without the consent of the Board of Directly, you cannot change the law of the Management Board. It was therefore necessary to amend that provision so that you could amend this other provision. That's clear and clear. I don't know what I'd say about that, 'cause I just can't get along that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21324	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21325	It's an exclusive position. You can't discuss that. A similar position is this now. You can't expand you put to the vote, you can remember everyone, let's go do not know what you're putting to the vote. You must take care of the way Parliament works. Parliament must act in accordance with the law, it must comply with the Rules of Procedure, it must take account of moral principles, not to speak of legal principles. Therefore, why put to the vote when this variant is clean, much cleaner. They'd get into some thing they wouldn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21326	So don't come in. You'll vote against it. Is someone making you come in? 100
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21327	No, but I want to tell you how to run the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21328	And that. I didn't really know. I didn't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21329	That you're committing violence over
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21330	Don't God save it. No, no.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21331	And that you put everything to the vote
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21332	Please refuse the synergy. Please let me conduct the session properly. You will plead as you think you should. I'm not getting into that. Zorić made his proposal. So we have two suggestions. People will say what they think. I guess we have the right as MPs. If I break the law, you complain that I broke the law. You just have to tell me which one. So please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21333	Indeed, if there are such thoughts as yours, then indeed we are in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21334	Thank you very much. Well, we did, I see we did depend on how
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21335	We're not going to get out of here for years. We're not going to get out of here in a legal way. We're working.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21336	Depends on how some people are in trouble, some people aren't. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21337	It's really hard for everyone to work.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21338	Thank you for your discussion. We've closed the debate. Please, we're pleading. Prepare to make a statement, so we vote on the first proposal to repeat the talks with all candidates. Vote now. - 23, 2 against, 1 abstention. I find this proposal has passed. 101 There is another proposal that will fall, so I ask that we plead. Prepare to vote. You should, why not, it'll fall. No, they don't. They don't rule each other out. Please. Yeah. So one rules out the other. Okay, there's no voting on the other one. So this first one rules out the second one. So since it's accepted procedure to take. All right, all right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21339	You said with all the candidates.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21340	With the candidates who signed up for the contest.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21341	From the order of the Serbian and Bosniak people.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21342	Only where a mistake was made. That's how we figured it out. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21343	So it wouldn't be a different conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21344	Thank you. We did everything according to the law. So since this one excludes the other, and there's no need to vote on the other, even though I can think differently as I think, but it doesn't matter. I respect this House's position, and it doesn't occur to me that I don't respect the law. Moving to agenda 22, Add 22. Information on the state of completion of the BiH State Border Service and internal control Council of the Ministers delivered to the House on 7 October 2005 the information on the state of complete DGS delivered to the Parliamentary Assembly. The Joint Commission for Defence and Security Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of defence and security structures discussed this information and took note of this information and delivered it to further procedure. The Joint Commission has proposed to the House to adopt the conclusions contained in the four points, which reads 1. It is necessary to speed up the ratification process of the BiH-Montenegro State Community Agreement on Border Traffic and the border crossings agreement between BiH and Serbia-Montenegro, under 2nd. It is necessary to initiate and speed up the identification procedure in determining and marking the state border between BiH and the Republic of Croatia and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, 102.3. It is necessary to pass the law on the maritime navigation of BiH as soon as possible, 4. It is necessary to initiate the procedure and to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control and Control of the BiH State Border in a section that regulates criminal provisions. Please be patient, I know you're as tired as I am. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr Miloš Jovanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21345	Well, I'd just like to look back at this first conclusion. Does this mean that, here, the agreements between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia have been ratified. So all that is mentioned is the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro, and that all agreements have been ratified between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. I don't know if there are any members of the commission who, I see, Mrs. Paravlić was determined to be a reporter at our home, she's gone. But I'd like to get an answer to that question so I can vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21346	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Mr. Ćeman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21347	So, I support not to enter into the information details now, and I have a proposal for a conclusion is related to point 2 of the Commission's proposed conclusions. It is said here that it is necessary to initiate and speed up the process of identifying and maintaining the state border between BiH and the Republic of Croatia and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. I think it would be good to ask as information to Parliament right now, although it is a question of a different nature, but it is also about what the disputed points are otherwise related to the marking of the border between Bosnia and Herzegovina and neighbouring countries in order to simply gain insight into it, because there are several open points to say issues that affect citizens' rights as well. That's one thing. And the second thing, I think, even though, in part, from what is said there, it is necessary to affirm in the DGS the principle of rotation of employees from time to time at individual destinations, simply as a principle, so to say the staff policies not only in terms of the most prominent positions, but in general the employees employed in this service. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21348	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have here, so we're getting information here, and it would be logical to adopt these conclusions. So is there anyone else to report for the hearing? There's no one here. I'm closing the debate. 103 So prepare to vote on the conclusions of 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th and receive information. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - I find that for 23 votes in favour of, 2 against, 3 abstentions, we have therefore adopted these conclusions regarding the Information on the state of completion of the BiH DGS and internal control. We're going to the 23rd agenda, that's Ad.23. Proposal for a candidate for members of the Office for Appeals, the proposaler of the Council of Ministers of BiH You have received this proposal earlier. As you know, we delayed the discussion of this proposal at the 70th session because he was not present as a proposing representative. I'll remind you that the provision of Article 49. The law on public procurement that the Office of Appeals consists of three members who are elected from the order of recognised experts in administrative law and administrative procedure and three members who are experts in the field of public procurement and transport and strategic business management, and who have been chosen through a public competition in a manner provided for in the legal acts. The Council of Ministers sets out a proposal for candidates after a public competition, taking into account that two members are from the Federation of BiH and one member from RS. The members of the Board of Appeal shall be appointed by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. You have therefore received a proposal for the appointment of five candidates, and this is proposed from the order of management experts – Amira Pilav, Dragica Miletić
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21349	He's a man, Amir Pilav.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21350	Amir, I'm afraid I have a mistake, I don't know, Amir Pilav, Dragica Miletić, Jasminka Putica. The order of experts in the field of public procurement suggests Blago Bošnjak and Kasim Bajramović for one place of experts in the field of public procurement, the Council of Ministers will discuss the re-competition. With these notes, I'm opening a debate. Azra Hadžiahmetović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21351	I'm not talking about candidates, but two complaints in this whole procedure. Members of the Board of Appeal are first elected. It doesn't appear here that it's about the Board of Appeals about the Public Procurement Act that was supposed to stand. And secondly, I just can't believe that the competition is called for a member's post, for example. Offices for examining complaints from the Federation or, for example, Probably even from the RS. We need to learn 104 to abandon this principle of candidate choice in institutions of this kind by some kind of entity principle, the delegate principle, etc. Indeed, if it is put into competition to choose, or fills the seat of a member of the Office for the Review of Appeals of a State, or for the implementation of a state law from one of the entities, it is a drastic violation of human rights. And I want to warn you because there's a contest here for a member of the Federation's office. I just want to mention that if it is said to be rectified urgently, because this really violates the provisions of the International Convention on Human Rights, does not at all disprove candidates and candidates, with the suggestion of course of which office to consider complaints is related to the Public Procurement Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21352	Thank you, Dr. President. Hadžiahmetović. I just want to remind you of Article 9. The law, which is said under b) has therefore been done by law after the end of the Council of Ministers' public competition, proposes to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, therefore to the Office, taking into account that two members are from the Federation of BiH, one from the RS. So it's legal. I don't think he's in competition, no. But this is a legal provision, and I think it was in the competition, and it wouldn't have been past the law, and it wasn't in the competition. So the law has made it clear, and we don't need to get too much temperature. It's important that we get good candidates. So, who's still answering for the word? Dr. Crescent. Tihomir Gligorić has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21353	I would like to warn my MPs that it would not be good to support these candidates. All the things Professor said. Kunić and Mr. Moranjkić are falling into the water because here the government mechanism through their staff solutions enables them to continue to control public procurement because they are carefully selected people who are constantly in the system with this in power, all these 15 years that have come there today, should come and cover up and possibly not miss something and that possibly justified appeal is rejected. This is a closed system of robbery and about everything you've been saying, you haven't recognized that people continue their journey, that this government with its leaders in executive power covers practically everything and that direct government is in line with everything that's illegal, because this way I can compromise these people, but I won't. I talked about it once in a while, but it's not worth it, I have no one to talk to. So I'd like to pray, so I'd like to ask people to think for once, let's choose smart professional people, new people. What we choose over and over again is these people who are always there where there's illegality and where there's something wrong with it are always there. Either they were, or they were working and spending time for illegal. I have filed criminal charges against some, unfortunately everything in the system is corrupt. And what division of the government Mr Duraković is talking about and what is related to democratic and legal states. It's not there. This is all the same thing about corruption and crime. This is the highlight of what you vote today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21354	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Dr. Crescent. It's a Kunić. 105
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21355	I'd ask if the competition was scheduled for these candidates? Is there a competition in place? It is. Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21356	It says here, I have information from the Council of Ministers establishing a proposal for candidates after a public competition. So it was a contest. It was a contest. A colleague of Altić. Yeah, everything's fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21357	Same question. Same thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21358	And here's the answer, so there was a set criteria, then a contest, then after the competition separated. So it's all, the procedure is respected. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21359	It would be good if we had as much information as there was, what was it. You guys, let me tell you, 50 of them, you pick out three guys you want, and you always do that. Simple. Well, of course. That's right. Great. Well, that's a confirmation. It's okay. It's a confirmation.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21360	Thank you. Is there anyone else who can come forward for discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21361	They bring everything in time, even if it's up to you to 20 people, so they pick again as well as these. But at least they're open.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21362	Please, we will have the opportunity to declare democratically every candidate. So I'm closing the debate. No one's answering for a hearing. Now let's make a deal, so we vote individually. First of all, the order of experts. Prepare to vote. Who wants Amir Pilav to be a candidate? - So for 19, 4 against, 4 abstentions. I find that Mr. Amir has been elected, so 19 for, four against, and four abstentions. 106 Let's move on. Who's for that, Dragica Miletić? Prepare to vote, to be elected from the ranks of experts? - 22 for, 3 against, 2 abstentions. So I find that Dragica Miletić has been chosen. Prepare to vote. Who's in favor of Jasminka Putica being elected from the ranks of experts? Vote now. - So 21, 3 against, 4 abstentions. I also find Jasminka Putica has been chosen. Prepare to vote. Who's in it for the Blago Bošnjak to be elected? - So 21, 3 against, 5 abstentions. I also find that the Blago Bošnjak has been chosen. Prepare to vote on Kasim Barjamović. Who's for Kasim Barjamović, vote now, to be elected? - For 20, against 1, 1 abstention. I also find that Kasim Bajramović has been elected. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore find that Amir Pilav, Dragica Miletić, Jasminka Putica, has been elected from the administrative rights experts. From the order of public procurement experts Blago Bošnjak, Kasim Bajramović, and remains that for the next place, a competition by the Council of Ministers will be reopened. We're going to the 24th agenda, that's Ad.24. Appointment of three members of the Joint Commission in order to reach an agreement on the identical text under a) Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and Rules of Procedure of the People's House, the alignment of common provisions, please three names – Filip Andrić, Momčilo Novaković, Ćeman Mirsad. b) The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Obdusmen for Human Rights of BiH, - Tihomir Gligorić, Vlatka Komšić, Nadžida Mlačo. c) Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Taxes - Dušanka Majkić, Senija Kapetanović and Ruža Sopta. 107 Shall we plead? I suggest we come forward together on these names. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - So I find that, with 26 votes for, no one against, 2 abstentions, we have appointed members of the committee to agree on the text of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and Rules of Procedure, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Human Rights of BiH and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes. Moving to agenda 25, that's Ad.25. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the term of office of Members of the House of Representatives Abdulah Nakaš for his death and Seadi Palavrić for the election of the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina You have received proposals for these decisions. I'm afraid dr. Abdulah Nakaš died, and according to the Electoral Law, it is formally necessary to establish the termination of the MPs' mandate so that the Electoral Commission can assign the next qualified candidate from the SDA list. As for the termination of the term of office of Honorable counterpart Seadi Palavrić, you have been given the decision to elect Seade Palavrić as judge of the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so in accordance with the provisions of the same law, the mandate of the MPs ends on the day of the election in court because of the incompatibility of these functions. I'm opening a debate. No Niko's answering for a hearing. I'm closing the debate. We vote and we make a decision on the termination of the term of office. Prepare to vote. So we can all of a sudden vote for each other. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - So I find that with 28 votes for, no one against, no one abstentions confirmed the decision to terminate Dr. Abdulahu Nakaš and counterpart Seadi Palavrić and obtained the conditions for moving to the 26th point of the agenda, and t o is Ad.26. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Korea on the loan of the Fund for Economic Development Co-operation and the Arrangement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Korea on the loan of the Fund for Economic Development Co-operation, (b) Memorandum between the Government of the Russian Federation and the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, the Government of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the alignment of mutual financial claims in relation to the settlement of accounts from the trade in goods between the former USSR and the former SFRY, (c) Proticola on amendments to the Convention on International Railway Transport, (d) The Development Credit Project for strengthening of the health sector between BiH and the International Association for Development of 108 Ladies and gentlemen, I open the debate and propose to make a single vote. The Commission met and gave its position on these contracts. So Ibrahim Đedović, Dr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21363	Before the plea, I would only ask the answer to the question concerning this agreement with Korea and this agreement with the Republic of Korea and the Agreement on, on the Development Loan Health Support, Strengthening the Health Sector – is there any idea where this $20 plus $14 million is going? It means a specific user. If you know who it is, and if you don't know what the way to spend that million dollars is? Please respond before your statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21364	Who are you telling?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21365	There's a minister here. She's the signer of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21366	We have a minister to give an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21367	I'm afraid I don't have those contracts here, but I know exactly where the funds are going. It is about the funds that the Federal Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health of Republika Srpska have made a specification and set out the exact equipment relating to specific homes of health, hospitals, etc. And it was built as a project. After that was rounded up to how many pieces and equipment were exclusively hospitalized, these funds were therefore sought by the Korean government which were obtained on this basis. So the contract is tied to the Korean government's funds with symmens' equipment, but that's, there's a specification that can be delivered to you from these entity ministries if you're looking for, I'll ask for a delivery to your address. So it's really clear to the end of the project how it goes and what hospitals are equipped and within what time, because it's very favourable loans that are consensual and that we can take. In that sense, it was done. I think it's a good project and it's only being realized now. And health care is also a well-known project that has dedicated users, but they refer to entities and everything is realised through the entity health ministries. So the Federation continues through the cantonal, and Republika Srpska still shares it a little more centrally. Here's the global answer. If you need details, details can be delivered in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21368	Thank you. A colleague, Đedović. 109
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21369	I'd just like another addition, I don't know if my colleagues will agree with me, but since we need to raise our hand for this, I think we should know where it's going. And not just for these two contracts, but for everything else. If you're asking us to name something, at least let us know where it's going, or where it's supposed to go. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21370	Thank you. A colleague of Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21371	I just want to pick up where my colleague Đedović left off. It concerns our simple relationship, and mine personally, and I see myself here under these agreements. It feels like no one's reading this, and no one's putting it under criticism. Believe it or not in this agreement under 4 means developing and strengthening health care development credit, out of total funds of $11 million and $200,000, 50 percent is spent, what do you think? For consulting services. For consulting services. And he says it like this. In the Federation 3 million and 100, or 10 thousand dollars, 100 per cent for foreign consulting firms and individual foreign consultants and 80 per cent for local consulting firms of individual and consultants, etc. etc. Training further worsens this relationship, training $780,000. So equipment, goods, medical instruments and all that other healthcare training in Bosnia and Herzegovina goes only 20%. 50 per cent goes to consulting services. I am really wondering how the Council of Ministers can and how Parliament can accept such agreements under the firm's development agreements and over 50% of the consulting services. I don't think that can be defended. I would ask Mrs. Minister, I mean this is very difficult, just try to defend when on this part of the funds we spend on simply not productive and simply, not goods, not funds, not instruments etc. etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21372	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Ljerka Marić. She asked for a word. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21373	Every criticism is welcome to criticise. Something good will come of it, I hope. Health care, health services, health care, health care, etc. It's on the entities. So entities are autonomously deciding how to develop health care which may be good, perhaps not, but the current constitution is such that it is the jurisdiction of the entity. When an entity is a Federation says that they need these loans on these elements that are inside and that they will spend because it says here, then the state is obliged to provide assistance, co-ordinating along with them and to contract credit in time, to ratify Parliament in time so as not to go means service costs, they are charged on something that we cannot quickly realise. Our role in this whole thing means that we as a state provide assistance to entities in concluding these agreements, because we are a party to the contract here. This loan is paid by entities when it comes to order and they are in charge of these loans to seek such consent because they have the responsibility for health services. That's it. 110 So we don't have the authority to define ourselves about something within these loans in any way other than they say. They need it, they schedule it, and our jurisdiction is not to determine how they will do it, but to support them so that they can realise these resources and ultimately means to provide better health services to the users.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21374	Thank you. Just a little bit, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21375	That's what our tragedy is, that we don't engage in loans that fail and entities. With all due respect, since this parliament is voting, it approves this loan, it assumes on itself people's responsibility for the realisation of this loan. We're not a body just like that, a voting machine without any responsibility. Which means this isn't right, Madam Minister. The Council of Ministers has the right to make amendments and to make observations to entity governments in such a way as to adopt programming and development sectors and strengthen health, etc. etc. So it's not true that we just need to raise our hands for this all that's going on.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21376	Thank you. A colleague of Altić asked for the word so Gligorić, so Dr. Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21377	Here, esteemed presidency, esteemed colleagues, Sejo wait, wait, Sejo. I would, I think my discussion was moderated if Mrs. Minister gave me an answer. Allow me. You said they were programming this, or planning health care services or the Federation. I see no reason for this parliament and this home to be guaranteed this loan. Allow me. We have experience before, as far as health care is concerned, that the health departments, regardless, will not say in the Serbian Republic, but in the Federation they force certain areas and I couldn't raise my hand for this loan to vote for this convention to be signed, this agreement because I have nothing, nothing I have here to tell me what is done, where it is done, who is doing it, etc. And does it work? Watch out. Secondly, we passed an hour ago the law that Moranjkić proposed on purchases. That's, there's a lot of money being stolen here, a lot of money. We have such cases with us in Bihac where the courts are, but it's all arranged by a team of criminals suppliers, suppliers, etc. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21378	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21379	So it would be very interesting if we had a further explanation. Next time I look at this specification, what is it? What kind of consultants we need. If I have to build spatial capacity, I have a project, I have engineers, I have a supervisory authority, which I need 111 here to consult. If I'm buying equipment, I know what companies are and knows every doctor who's a firm that sells surplus equipment.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21380	There's no money.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21381	But there's $3 million for that. So I don't think that this fourth in a row should be accepted without the addition of whether it went from the home health care institutions, whether it was discussed by the health care office, whether the health care agency delivered it to the ministry, the federal ministry. Has the Federal Ministry of Return returned to health organizations to satisfy this and to get the real equipment and space of the healthcare institution that needs it. I can say for my own, for my misfortune, I gave my illness a great deal of money because there are no such medical services, out of my pocket, which is not in Bihac. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21382	Thank you. A fellow Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21383	We continue this story. I think we should ask the promoter to deliver to us, in addition to this agreement they deliver, because they too process, I will chew, etc. Whatever you want, it's that there's that original request, like from the ethnic level. And I think it would be good in the future to ask us to refer to these loans that are expensive, which find ways just because consultants and some of our people are being installed in the meantime, and that's, of course, rising to international organised crime. At the next session, I will ask for the revision of all the loans that came on this basis, which in this term Parliament means adopted, to see the realisation practically to get the information that these people in Simens and others would hear that people in Parliament in Bosnia and Herzegovina have regained consciousness and that they will not, as I know, have consulting services where they have $30,000 taken by the time they get to Sarajevo from Vienna, so it is done three times over the year, etc. etc. We return all of this to this poor woman, and the menaces of the international mangoons do our homework, and we here, are absolutely right, and Đedović and Prof. Avdić and Dr. altić, we're not here, we never got into that problem here. It has never been heard from Parliament that people who simply watch very seriously and responsibly and that such a kind of voice from this Parliament and how to make them serious. It went all the way before us, we covered an international organised crime in this House when it came to loans that seemed to be favourable. Everything's nice, everything's sweet, but let's see what it's like with the equipment and what it's like with dr. Altić says where it ends and who plans it and, of course, how everyone in the meantime is installed in those 50% and plus this 30% so that the poor remains 20%, and 80% of such large loans, which in this case is 30 and some million remain only 10, and 20 of them have divided between themselves. Thank you. 112
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21384	Thank you. But I would really pray that when retrieval of these agreements is to guard against big words. MPs have the right to seek information that they are interested in regarding the agreement, but I doubt that everything is a crime and that everything is criminalized in conditions where there is no capital, etc. I'm not ready. So I don't argue that people are looking for what they need, but you need to keep an eye on the score that, I think I can't affect naturally and I won't do anything to anyone, I didn't mean Mr. Gligorić to you personally, but I think you should. Here's Mrs. Azra Hadžiahmetović, then a colleague of Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21385	I had the need to present Mrs Marić, Minister Marić, to respond to several views, generally concerning the borrowing of Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially the Development Credit Agreement between BiH and the international Association for Development. Not entities in debt, but in Bosnia and Herzegovina's debt. Entities did not negotiate, but the leader of the negotiating team was a team designated by the Council of Ministers. The signer was Minister Ljerka Marić. The international debt bond is the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Fulfilling international obligations by the borrowing entity is through the state budget. The second is that our state budget is a good part alimony from entity budgets, so it exists in the entity obligation specification, etc. But this is the debt of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not an entity's debt, nor have the entities agreed and signed this contract, but the Council of Ministers and Teams and Mrs Ljerka Marić. I'm saying this in general for every credit arrangement, not just for this one, but generally for every credit arrangement. We don't know the guarantees for the ethnic debt. The state can't be guaranteed entity debts. But there's something else. It's because of a lot of problems.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21386	Debt is located at the site of use of Azra.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21387	I know, but still by debt, but he's bound by Bosnia and Herzegovina's debt, according to international law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21388	The latest entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21389	Under international law, the BiH state is bound by law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21390	Subsidial loan.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21391	If we need to check the fee, please, there's a lawyer here. 113
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21392	Here's the minister. He can answer. I don't want to rephrase it, but we do have an answer that he can give.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21393	Well, I, uh, let me happen to know that I do. Let me happen to know that it is so that the debtor is in international debt, regardless of what debt the state is, whether it is Bosnia and Herzegovina, or another state. However, secondly, I would like to propose, given that this agreement is subsequently included in the ratification process, I suggest that it return to the Foreign Affairs Commission that possibly in a discussion in communication with the competent ministry,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21394	It's over. There's no turning back. You were also explained on the neighbor's side. The Commission also delivered its opinion now because it did not go to one place where someone thought it had gone a million times, and now it is in this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21395	A colleague, Novaković, asked for a word, Križanović and Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21396	Dear colleagues, I wouldn't have so easily refused to ratify this agreement,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21397	Exactly.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21398	First of all, because I think the qualification that we vote lightly does not mean that someone before us has not seriously analysed the content of this agreement. So, we starting from the assumption that we don't really read, or we don't read, then, come to the conclusion that others are seriously nepting under these agreements. I'm not sure it's a good way to reason. I am convinced that before the signing of this agreement, those who suppressed it had read it very well, and especially those who took the loan were well analyzed whether they needed it, or did not need this kind of borrowing. That's why I think that some qualifications here are expressed, in my deep conviction they don't stand, but I can agree that it's not good that we get these agreements on the table on the day they need to be ratified. So I can take it as a drawback, because we're simply not in a situation where we want to seriously analyze them we're not in a position to look for information in the right places and see if the data is in order or not. 114 So I will support the ratification of these agreements convinced that more responsibility than I, if anything is wrong, has those who signed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21399	I thank my colleague Novaković. A colleague of Križanović, and a colleague of Mike's. Just a little bit, you'll all get your turn. There's no need to be nervous.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21400	I thank the chairman. I think this is for these three years this calls to Parliament, that is, this House of Representatives, for the second time, that we have started to discuss something when we have a ratification of international agreements and agreements on the agenda. And I think it's very useful to discuss this. So far, we have had one to say a very bad practice that we have serially, and even in the package we have approved to ratify. But what I was going to say is that in many things when I don't get to look at it, I'm relying on the commission's opinion very well. But you see how, I wouldn't want to be incorrect and unlegal to the members of our foreign affairs commission right now. We are today getting an opinion on the ratification of these four agreements, where it is said that today the Commission has considered these agreements and given an opinion on ratification. If we have an extended college meeting at 9:00 this morning, I don't know if the commission was really able to consider it seriously and make such a positive opinion without a single remark. So, in order not to owe, here I recommend and ask our board members on all committees to give a little more attention to accessing certain topics before they officially direct their opinion to this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21401	Explanation one only please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21402	A colleague, Martin Raguž, is asking for clarification. An explanation, not a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21403	Well, it may be a replica, but I wouldn't want to replicate it because Mr. Križanović is absolutely right when he says he doesn't need a serial. I would like to say that this committee has been held on a regular basis with a timely agenda, with the full quorum of the commission and the presence of representatives of the ministries who have explained each of these agreements. The fact that some members had left earlier, so they weren't able to ask, so now they ask, I asked there, others had a chance and the neighbor unanimously gave their opinion on it. And just for the reasons that Mr. Križanović now said as chairman of the commission, I said I will never again give an ad hoc in flight consent, but call on people who can explain and give an opinion. And in that sense, I take responsibility for this case. I think it's elaborated precisely and I can't even remember where the funds are going and we're told as a strong argument that it needs to be ratified by the new year that it can be applied for interest, for everything. So here's why I don't really think that people rightly ask for explanations and procedures and let's all contribute together that we have timely information, and I'm also 115 so I'm not inclined to say that everything is bad and all black for every agreement. I mean, if we have concrete evidence in a specific case of concrete companies, concrete competitions, I am going to open every question, but still with a little more arguments, we open up all the problems.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21404	Thank you. My kolegica, Majkić, has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21405	I just want to say a few things. There are few countries that provide us with favourable loans. So we can't turn around and get a good deal. That we need to keep an eye on the truth is, but to get a 20 million loan on the repayment period for 30 years, including 10 years of grace periods, there aren't many such countries. In particular, there are not many countries that will give an interest rate of 1.5% per year, or a period
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21406	It's all explained to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21407	Or a loan payment period to be 30 months from the date of entry into force of the credit base with some minimum debt service fee. There's another catch in Article 3 that says that a qualified country of origin for the purchase of goods and services on this loan to Korea. So Korea gave credit to get the money out of it. And it's not the only one. They say 70% of the loans provided by American organizations, or financial institutions return to America. So this isn't the first or the last credit on that basis. So I don't think there is, that we should take care of it, but this isn't any special case.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21408	I thank my colleague Mišić for asking. Just take it easy.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21409	I just want to tell my colleagues that as a member of the Commission where I was present and where the Commission is really looking for a Council of Ministers rapporteur for every agreement. Under all these agreements it was so decadent that there were reporters with a bunch of papers where we were asking questions, members of the commission, and where everything was explained to us as the Minister explained. It is known exactly where money goes through entity governments, entity ministries in depth, where loans are favourable to be adopted before the new year and there are few of these loans offered to us in these conditions. So I would also like to say to support the Commission President's discussion that the Commission is not going through the agreements exactly as you think ad hoc, but we are looking for rapporteurs and we are decidently looking at the agreement, when it comes to the Foreign Affairs Komsii, all of which is decadently explained by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21410	I'd like to thank my colleague, Mišić. A fellow Potočnik has a word. 116
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21411	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to explain these pleasant loans. These loans are essentially not pleasant because we are a country of political risk. They usually pay more than 70% of the money right away and when you take the 30% you'll see that he immediately charged in the first year over 30% of the interest, so don't cultivate the illusion that these are pleasant loans, and of course they're in a hurry to push them through as soon as possible. Therefore, it would be much smarter if this country were politically stable so that the country could take credit from whoever it wants and for what it wants and we should strive for it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21412	Thank you. He's a fellow Altić, and we're bringing an end to the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21413	...but there's something the mlad have said that you have no experience. All these credits that he gives abroad and condition, he conditionals on a loan contract to, say, give Korea credit here, it conditiones exactly which equipment you buy and where and at which firm. And that often doesn't answer to health care. Whether it's a technology that we haven't mastered or it's a bad quality, because be careful I'll buy an X-ray at Philips' instead of Simens's, an example I'm talking about. But if he tells me that I have to buy at Simens', then he buried me. Secondly, why am I saying this, be careful, respecting and respecting all the executive authorities and the federal government and the Federation and all that, but please, we need to have an insight into what these medical institutions will get these loans. I say that for the reasons of this, because we have today in the Federation, that is, in all of Bosnia and Herzegovina's centres where we have highly differentiated medicine, and we have centres that used to deal with the stim centres that have been burned today on the mediocre homes of health. So we should know, because if one center is building a program of equipment, space, frames, etc. and sends it to the ministry, the ministry is the forum that adopts it, he needs to return it to that home of health or to that health care institution that she accepts and see if it suits her. So, I'm going to vote that this loan, that this is ratified by this agreement, but please in the future it can't be done like this because we're in charge. I'll tell you one example. We're flying into loans, I don't know how much we are, are we over 20 billion, how much credit we have, I don't know? The old Yugoslavia that, we all say didn't work here, it worked for me, I'm old and so, it was working for me, she was doing a lot of borrowing, so we politically came into a position, politically came into a position that we had to play as they say, as the West says, because then we were the East. So they're going to put us in the same position here. And whoever brings it back, whoever pays for it, will suffer the generations to come. Yeah,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21414	Let's adjust the game to music. So if the debate is over. Here you Izvolit, pal Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21415	I'll talk differently. We, as a member of the Commission, will first support these ratifications and our club will support it. 117 However, I would like to see such agreements signed not to write by the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as can Ranko Ninković and mlad Ivanić write that this is an agreement between the Council of Ministers, etc., and the other thing is that I received three materials for this agreement under b). On one mark on the 21st, on the second, on the 19th, 12th, I got that by faxing home and on the third, 20th.12. Come on, man. It's been on this since 20.12. It says it's a technical error correction. Now that I take the last page, that is, the last page says on this where there are technical errors that were signed on 17 September 2003 in six copies each in Russian and English, and both texts have the same legal effect. Now on this where there are no technical statements signed on 17 September 2003 in six copies each in Bosnian and English. It's not possible that it's a technical mistake that it's Russian and Bosnian and it's a synonym and there's been a technical error. And I have information that it was signed in Russian. And how come someone's right to write here that it's not signed in Russian, if it is. And how come someone's right to write that he's in Russian, if he's not. It's not a technical mistake. I think this, and then again on behalf of the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. I think they're big things just like I didn't want to replicate to some people who say the state's due. It's not Bosnia and Herzegovina. And the state budget or budget, etc. Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, we don't want to tell the truth here. We don't want to be precise. My colleagues often speak to the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as if it were difficult to say the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We play a game of expressions. He can't, I don't support it. We'll support ratification because it's important to ratify these contracts, but I think it should stop once. How Can Someone Be?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21416	I agree with my colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21417	translate Russian into Bosnian. Here's one of those Ćeman when he was making the Dayton Agreement, but now what's Russian.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21418	Here's my colleague Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21419	As long as I don't go out for a pay phone. So afterwards, the Commission pointed to technical shortcomings and they corrected them who they were. They obviously didn't accept all these suggestions, but they were technical errors in numbers. And that's why this is extra, so we worked as a commission. Well, now I don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21420	I agree with my colleague Zorić that these mistakes are also unacceptable if the work on translations is serious, prepare material for Parliament, etc. But here, is anyone coming forward for discussion? Nobody's answering. 118 Ladies and gentlemen, so I suggest we have a ratification in the package, unless someone has a request individually. But I didn't hear the request individually. Do you agree? Prepare to vote, ratify agreements (a) to (d), including (a) and (d). Prepare to vote. Vote now. - So I find that with 23 votes for, 1st, 5 abstentions, we have ratified under a) an agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Korea on the loan of the Fund for Economic Development Co-operation and the Arrangement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Korea on the loan of the Economic Development Co-operation Fund, b) the Memorandum between the Government of the Russian Federation and the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, the Government of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the alignment of mutual financial claims in relation to the settlement of accounts from the trade in goods between the former USSR and the former SFRJ, c) the Proticola on the amendments to the Convention on International Railway Transport, d) the Development Credit Project to strengthen the health sector between BiH and the International Association for Development. And so we go to the 27th point of the agenda, that's A.27. Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Security Intelligence Agency's activities for the 1.6th period, which goes first to 28th and 27th. And I'm sorry, okay, so let's go to point 28. That's ad.28. you have received a proposal for a conclusion submitted by your colleague Moranjkić this morning. I'm opening a debate. I think we've all come to the fore with the support of this conclusion. I wish we weren't having long debates. If there's no one. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote - now. So I find that with 29 votes for, no one against, two abstentions, we have accepted the Muhamed Moranjkić's proposal for concession agreements in BiH. We're going to the 29th point of the agenda. Ad.29. A report by the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum on the presentation of citizens from the UGOR Association You received today's Report from the Commission. You have seen that the Commission proposes the following conclusions: 119 1. It is necessary to include the BiH presidency in a bilateral manner to open a debate before the International Council of BiH and the Republic of Croatia. 2. The Council of Ministers of BiH, i.e. its respective ministries, particularly the MIP, the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Ministry of Justice, is in charge of finding practical solutions through appropriate agreements between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 3. It is up to the Council of Ministers to establish a committee with the task of helping the rights of persons with disabilities – a citizen of BiH, refugees from the Republic of Croatia, on pre-war residence, residential rights, return of private property, labour relations rights, pensions and disability, the right to obtain citizenship of the Republic of Croatia, the right to privatisation and other economic and social rights. 4. The Council of Ministers of BiH is tasked with authorising the Ministry of Justice to initiate an agreement with the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia on the legal protection of damaged workers to provide faster, better quality and more efficient legal protection and 5. Given that psoths suggest that there are numerous cases of damaged workers in other republics of the former Yugoslavia, Dom recommends to the Council of Ministers that through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its DKPs, as well as other competent ministries and services, it looks at the extent and extent of the damages of the workers – the citizen of BiH and proposes measures and ways of their solution in associations where these rights are violated. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21421	So, no longer. I think it is a good thing that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, therefore, has entertained these issues, specifically our home and our Human Rights Commission. These people also, i.e. I have had a lot of contacts with them, because they have informed me that they are simply in the Republic of Croatia about these rights, in some ways, free to say, they do not want to speak at all in a correct way. The proceedings before the courts, however, are nothing new, and there are other cases with us, they are unreasonablely long, etc. etc. In addition to one technical error here – I warned the secretary, of course, she is purely formal, where it is said that at this session with the members of the Association's headquarters he was the head of the Jelah municipality, in fact, there is no Jelah municipality, but Teshanj municipality, would be the head of the Teshanj municipality, which should be corrected. I would also, by supporting these findings and proposals for measures, add and propose another conclusion. It is clear from the proposed conclusions that, more or less, all the authorities in this country are dealing with this issue. But it's not enough for our commission and this parliament to finish this job. I listened, given the fact that this issue has been updated and that it already has an echo in the Republic of Croatia – I listened to some media and read relevant people in my opinion at the Ministry of Labour or will be in the Ministry of Justice, or in both the Ministry of Justice, who simply said that there was no need for any institutional response to these demands, but that the matter exclusively comes down to the protection of individual demands of citizens before courts. 120 Of course, I do not dispute that there is no such dimension and it as such certainly is here and tried to be realized. But if there is no stronger support as a policy in which it is supported as a legitimate request, or demands of this kind, then of course other authorities of the other country concerned do not show quite the same zeal in resolving these issues. Accordingly, I would like to propose an addition to the conclusions that would read: If, in a reasonable period, therefore, the bodies that are in the proposal for other conclusions on this information, defined as addresses for resolving these issues – do not raise and raise the issue of resolving these disputes in a constructive way, the BiH Council of Europe's delegation in the Council of Europe undertakes to raise this issue as a significant question of the human rights of the citizens of BiH in respect of the application of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. I say, if, then, in a reasonable time, other organs do not act in the right way. Because here is the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, of course, and BiH, also obliges the Republic of Croatia. Of course not just us, but today we're talking about these problems. We can, of course, open up a story about other issues, but today I say we're talking about this topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21422	Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Replica Mr. Zorić, then Mr. Gligorić, then Mr. Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21423	I'm against this conclusion that Ćeman mentioned. If I adopt this home, I'd beg to be excused. I'm threatened. I'm not threatened. Why ask for someone in Strasbourg to defend me, and I'm not at risk. You can't collectively ask that someone, by name, yes, by name. He said here if he didn't get rid of it—what if he didn't get rid of it, I don't know. This could be resolved and no one would sue Croatia to pay all these people money, because I see there are no Hrvat. Only Hrvat from Croatia cannot be helped. When Croatia helped the Hrvat in BiH, they called it from BiH. I hope not, there are no Hrvat here.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21424	Thank you, Vinko. Thank you, Mr Zorić. Replica Mr. Ćeman. Tell me what it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21425	I have suggested that, if other authorities – here is the mention of the interstate council, the Presidency, the Ministry of Justice, etc. etc. – in due course they do not show – and on the other hand the willingness to solve this issue in principle, to raise this issue as one of the issues of the application of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. I wasn't talking. Of course this is the case for this group of citizens, but I said the Convention obliges this group of peas which is the subject of this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21426	Thank you. Ljiljana Milićević – correcting the wrong quote. 121
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21427	It's just a turn of action. This proposal by Mr. Ćeman – that the delegation raises this issue in the Council of Europe. We've got some things to branch out. The Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly, is making a report on a certain state of human rights and everything, and it also directly means respect for this declaration of fundamental human rights is competent and only the competent body formed by the Council of Europe, which is the Court of Human Rights. If anyone considers his first injured, he seeks justice before the Court, and does not raise the question before the Court, but whoever feels threatened, initiates a lawsuit there.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21428	Thank you very much. A fellow Ćeman, he's blaming the quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21429	I know about these things, that individual rights, my colleague Ljiljo, can be sought by court. But that's not what this is about. And here it turns out that the courts are ineffective. This is about, of course, being properly indicated in the debates, among other things, about the application of the European Convention and other human rights tangling, to point out that. That's why I said, let the delegation consider how this question will be properly asked there. I know that the individual things went. But please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21430	Let it go bilaterally with Croatia first, and then we'll...
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21431	But please, I've suggested the addition of conclusions, because simply people feel that this country is not protecting them enough. Let's not say this isn't the way. I said, if other organs don't show enough responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21432	Thank you. Dr Gligorić for discussion or, yes, correction. Cola Novaković dr. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21433	I just want my colleagues, Zorić, to correct one quote. In fact, counterpart Zorić said such a sentence at one point – "Only Hrvat from BiH must not be helped by Croatia," which implies that this is about helping Croatia to these citizens who are listed here. So this is not about any assistance from Croatia, but about the obligation that Croatia has to carry out and what it has not done. And in that sense, it can't stand a qualification like this. Of course, with all due respect, individual rights can be safeguarded if someone thinks they are endangered. 122
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21434	Yeah. Thank you. Dr Gligorić, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21435	First of all, I thank the MPs who supported this as a part of the agenda when I proposed. Secondly, the Commission that was working on this, and there is Mr Jahić, we have indeed settled this issue unanimously by consensus. At the same time, we formed a subcommittee that was directly convinced of this, which had a lot of documentation. And believe me, what's complicated is really so based on facts. But what Mr. Ćeman suggests certainly has room. But perhaps you shouldn't, Mr. Ćeman, insist now at this point on that conclusion. Therefore, I think we have well defined that in bilateral relations between the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, the government, certain ministries, working groups, it is so that the issue is raised. Because once it's all exhausted inside the institutions, then we could possibly move on. I believe our competent institutions will open this issue. Since Mr Zorić was the issue, this is really about Bošnjak and Srbin who worked in the Republic of Croatia and who did not exercise the right to retire, to citizenship, to privatise and much more. But that's why we said that other people -- they worked both in Serbia and Montenegro, in Slovenia and vice versa -- put it in a broader context to solve other issues and help our citizens. Therefore, these citizens have been wandering for years until they were properly directed to this commission of human rights, to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, I have told Mr Zorić well, not to say the BiH Parliament. . So, we're in charge, according to the Constitution, of human rights, and that's why, by respecting these people, we've dealt with it very and urgently, ali, you know, people have lost more than four years of complaining about the wrong addresses, because human rights should protect this Parliament. There you go. Thank you. And I think this should be supported.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21436	Thank you very much. I agree. My colleague Andrić asked for a word. I don't have any further applications for a hearing. It's good.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21437	Thank you, Mr. President. I understand, indeed, if someone's rights are violated and they need protection and the way it's done is known. However, the fact is that here in this procedure we heard one side. Our commission was convinced of a conversation with one side. The other party should also be seen in this procedure. The Republic of Croatia. I can only support the conclusion that on a bilateral basis we're talking about this and that we can see what's what, what's true.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21438	That's the point of these conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21439	I would refrain from any more difficult conclusions of adoption at this point until we get feedback back and on the other hand, let's see what's going on. 123
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21440	He's right, colleague Andrić, but I think that's what these conclusions are all about. Just that they're in bilateral contact trying to solve these problems. Is there anyone else to report for the hearing? Nobody's answering. We're closing the debate. We declare the conclusions of our commission, the report. Prepare to vote. We're voting on the conclusion report. Vote now. - For 28 for, 2 against, one abstention. So I find, ladies and gentlemen, that we have adopted the Report of the Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum on the presentation of citizens from the UGOR Association, with locks. Comrade Ćeman, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21441	So I will not insist on voting on my conclusion, counting precisely on the fact that the authorities designated as the address by these conclusions will do what is in their ability to treat this issue as an important issue, among other things, and the relations of the two states, and in terms of citizens' rights, in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21442	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, I didn't hear your lock and that's why I didn't even talk about him.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21443	Okay, you didn't want to, but here I am,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21444	No, I wasn't there when you said it. No, no, I wasn't told. I'm sorry. I would never do that to you. But here, thank you very much, you've contributed. It wasn't my intention, I wasn't there when you lied.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21445	Okay. It's okay. I'm sorry. I'm not that.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21446	We're going to 30 points, that's A.30. Proposal for a resolution of the SDA Club you have a motion for a resolution. I'm opening a debate. Comrade Novaković, here you go. 124
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21447	I don't know what it's like, the Honorable Chairman, and the Proposer I ask, I don't know what it's like, since I wasn't at the adoption of the agenda – how the debate on this resolution is planned. In fact, whether it is intended to make amendments in writing, or whether it is enough that with the motion for a resolution, we come to a satisfactory text in this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21448	All that's expected is support, no amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21449	Namely, I'd like to make my remarks about the resolution. The first position, so I find the first position of the resolution unnecessary, and I would delete it. Namely, this reminder is in the upcoming attitudes and there is no need to present it in the first position because it is reminded below of these obligations. I would also delete attitude 2, because pointing out a special coordination unit, or anyone in particular in the section means the jobs he's been doing under his obligations, I don't think it's necessary. I'd like to support Section 3. Resolutions as said here. In Section 4, I'd like to delete the first sentence. Namely, the House of Representatives welcomes the declarations of readiness of the Administration for indirect taxation. I don't think it makes sense to stand in Resolution. Because watch out, anyone can make statements. The question is the readiness of the Administration means for this process. And in that sense to welcome the statements, I don't think the resolution would make sense. I would support the further part of the text, in due course, to replace the words "we are asking" with the words "we expect from". So, because logically, given all the competences, we can expect everyone in their jurisdiction to do something, but that we can't have that system to impose on the entity parliaments and the Brcko District Assembly of BiH. I would support point 5 and point 6 of this resolution, and if the motionor agrees with these remarks, we are prepared in this way to vote in favour of the resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21450	Thank you. Dr. Crescent. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21451	Mr. Novaković ran, I didn't think he'd accept it. But now that I've talked about some of my sayings today, let's finish, and this is so that vlas doesn't get the hang of it. Now Mr. Novaković has told Elmir Jahić, you know, he's going to make some amendments, he's going to supplement something, he's going to be so smartly worried about it, so he's going to appreciate it, so we're going to get a resolution. 125 I think the resolution should be rejected, let each of you do your job and in the shortest possible, I expect that kind of rhyme and that we don't make a farce here, that you're texting each other to support ourselves politically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21452	Wait a minute, can I have a business intervention? The amendments are made in writing, we must respect the Rules of Procedure. We can't go here when it comes to resolution in a different way. If you need a break, everybody say so. Written amendments, therefore, please, we must respect the Rules of Procedure. I welcome every approach to come to a solution. The Momčilo Novković replica, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21453	Since I asked, Mr. Predating, as agreed, because I wasn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21454	There's no deal. The Rules of Procedure are here.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21455	Then I'll ask for a break to make amendments means in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21456	I'd like to ask you to play some more discussion to see if there are any approaches, to take a joint break if you can get to the resolution who wants the resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21457	Please, Mr. Chairman, I asked that I take a break and write the amendments. Who's gonna take a break, that's his business. So if I can't agree this way, then I'm going to ask for a break to write the amendments. And indeed, my colleague Gligorić, I ask him to discuss it properly. I wouldn't discuss it this way as he discussed it. So not because he doesn't deserve it, but because this home doesn't deserve it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21458	Thank you. A colleague, Jahić, asked for a word. Just a little patience, so Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21459	First of all, I feel really uncomfortable that Mr. Gligoroc has Gligoroć us in such a way, it really has, in one spy way, exposed all of our vile intentions (Laughter). 126 But here I give up the first and second points, from the first sentence in the fourth part. The rest of this doesn't have to be that I'm giving up these parts as a proposing.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21460	Thank you. Is there anyone else to answer for? Azra Hadžiahmetović asked for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21461	Here, if there's going to be some breaks and if there's going to be any amendments...
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21462	There won't be a break, because these pieces Momo wanted to amend were withdrawn, so we'll get a consolidated text. Please, let's just follow up a little bit. Don't, please, let's stall the time, we'll end it all.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21463	There might be some sort of consolidated text, and in that sense, if we were to go possibly in the direction of adopting some resolution, I would give a few suggestions. First, point one. Resolution BiH House of Representatives reminds entity governments
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21464	Azra, please, therefore, has withdrawn point 1 and point 2, the first sentence of point 4.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21465	I'm discussing this. I mean, we haven't gotten to the purest text yet. Furthermore, I will remind you, now all of us that this Parliament has not adopted a programme of mitigation of the consequences of VAT, but we have received this knowledge. They adopted entity governments and the Brcko District government. Therefore, I do not know why this point 2 stands here, because I know well that this Parliament has not adopted that programme. Furthermore, it says here that the government's decisions are welcomed to make proposals for its budgets on the divisive side, etc. I have not even received a draft budget from state institutions, is if I have expressed myself well to my colleague Zorić, and let me see possibly the proposals of entity budgets, the expenditure side and see whether this is exactly the answer to the needs of social programmes and the social sector in the context of tax reform. Furthermore, to welcome the willingness of the Administration, I am not sure that this is wise because this is the obligation of the Directorate for indirect taxation under the laws adopted by this parliamentary assembly. To establish entity teams to monitor price developments, it is an entity government obligation. So, eventually to remind you of that, I really think that this kind of formulated point, does not slow down the need to adopt the power of some resolution, I'm not sure that's how the formulation of all of us here is pictured. If you're going to create some refined text I suggest that these formulations be avoided. 127
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21466	I'm hanging out with Dr. Hadžiahmetović. The word was requested by the president of the dom, g-din Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21467	So, Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, it's obvious that there's some text here trying to come up and I think it's good if someone thinks they can agree on the text on this resolution. It's just a question of whether or not we're going to get a useful document, or if it's going to be unusable. I will now, on the basis of this – I respect the giving up of the first point, second point and first sentence at the fourth point, now I am reading to you what is left of the Resolution. Says the PS House of Representatives welcomes the decisions of entity waves and the government of Brcko District. Then 5 – we welcome the Federation government's decision and decision of the Republika Srpska government. We've grown into a group to welcome the decisions of entity governments. If indeed this Parliament has come to this end. So please, don't caricate it with the resolution. I will not make it difficult for you, of course, I will not support the resolution, because I do not think that anything is being solved with it, and I think that the Council of Ministers' final intention is here, this is a request from the Council of Ministers, that through any party there be a resolution, where it is said: However, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is expressing concern that there has not yet been a adoption of the budget and that further delay in their adoption could lead to the delay in the implementation of this programme. So this is the key sentence of the Resolution written by the Council of Minsitarians. I'm telling you that you're looking for a breach of responsibility for something that could possibly follow, or a clearing of the ground. And this House doesn't need that. I think we should all take responsibility for a serious project, which is a project of tax reform. However you sit down and clean up this resolution, if we don't know what we want with it, we'll get one piece of worthless paper. Well, I won't make it any harder. If there's a majority who wants to get to the resolution, I won't answer, I won't support any resolution, because I don't think that's the solution. And if you need to take a break, you ask, try, I'll do anything as chairman to help you in one rational way get to some harmonised attitude. And I don't think we're doing a good job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21468	Thank you very much. Are there any more reported? There isn't. The argument is closed.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21469	Should the promoters and what they say agree on, should there be a simplified text if I vote or if this is enough? A colleague of Azra asked, she wants to have a consolidated text if she appreciates the others not to, we'll make a statement. 128
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21470	So what Mr. Novaković was saying was repeated by Mrs. Hadžiahmtović, Malta not literally. So the first part, the second part is deleted, the third part becomes the first part, in the fourth part, that is, the fourth position is deleted, and instead of "we are looking," it begins "expects from entity parliaments". Fifth and sixth stays. So it's all of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-12-21-0.u21471	So that's the resolution. Is there any further discussion? There isn't. We've closed the debate. Prepare to vote on the resolution as you have seen. Vote now. - For 17, versus 7, one abstention. We have a majority and an entity majority. So, the resolution, as SDS and SDA agreed, was also accepted. We're moving to the 31st point of the agenda. No, there's no need for a little joke. Please relax the atmosphere. If anyone's mad at Momo if it's about that, here's my apology. No, because the vote doesn't show that. Moving to the 31st point of the agenda, that's Ad.31. Report on the activities of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency for the period 1.6 to 31.12. In 2004, as you know, the Council of Ministers remained in confidence. That is why we are obliged to rule out the public when considering this report. But, please, we must have someone here who, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, who is in charge of the Intelligence and Security Agency, must, therefore, be the chairman of the Council of Ministers or Mr Bariša Čolak or Mladen Ivanić, because that is what the law calls them. Since it's not there, I suggest we take this point down until the motionary is worthy of defending this report. Do you agree with this? Just sit down for a second. I thank you, ladies and gentlemen, as this is the last so I suppose session of the 2005 House of Representatives, I use myself to congratulate all BiH citizens on their religious holidays as well as New 2006. Congratulations on the holidays and New Year's Eve. And special thanks to the media for monitoring this session. The seat is closed at 1900 hours.
