ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18814	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 62nd session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, honored guests, media representatives, I welcome you all together. I find that the 62nd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly has a quorum. So far, 32 MPs are present in the O.R. We expect that, as is usually the practice, unfortunately in this home in the next few minutes and the rest of us to enter the hall to make the quorum state even bigger. For today, MPs Abdulah Nakaš, Mr Momčilo Novaković and Mr Mladen Potočnik and Mr Ibrahim Đedović justified the absence. I'm also getting information that Mr. Zorić, through Mr. Raguž, has justified the absence. It's on an official trip to Germany. So we have conditions for full-time work and decision-making. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović announced that she would be late for the session for a while. We're expecting her arrival as well. Dear colleagues and colleagues, you have received a draft agenda for today's session. We were preparing this session this morning and held a session of the College and a session of the Colleges in an extended composition and after our session the agenda remained unchanged. We're supposed to be working in two parts today. The first section refers to points 1 to 7, after which we would take a break, and then we would go to this point 8 concerning the Commission's conclusions on foreign affairs of the House of Representatives on the subject of relations between the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina according to the mandate of the International Community High Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina when the session will also be attended by the High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Pedi Eždaun. 2 So much for the introduction to the agenda. The College therefore considers that the agenda and the College in the extended composition and the College should not be changed. We had some questions that we discussed, or discussed. I am now opening a debate at this session on the agenda itself. Who wants to talk? Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18815	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Three weeks ago, we had a joint session of both homes where we had agendas, including materials arising from our commitment to the 53rd session of the House of Representatives. I note that today is the 62nd session. In fact, at the 53rd session of the House of Representatives, we, among other things, have concluded that the Council of Ministers comes before us, so before this house with a set of information concerning the external trade and overall economic drama that is taking place in the country. First of all, it was information relating to the effects and assessment of the tariff quotas introduced, or translated into folk language about the robbery through the import of garbage, i.e. Customs into the country. Then, the second topic was the state of the trade deficit and measures to reduce it, noting that in the history of this country, the trade deficit was never greater than now and threatens to collapse the financial and economic system. And third information with the proposal for measures should be information on the effect of a temporary suspension of part of the free trade agreement with the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro. Also, more than half a year ago, this parliament made a commitment to the Council of Ministers and was confirmed at the 53rd session of the House of Representatives to come out with a draft of social programmes and to mitigate the consequences of the collection of basic life supplies following the introduction of the VAT. We, unfortunately after four months, and some of that after seven months were finally on the agenda three weeks ago at that famous joint session. Given the topics that I have mentioned here, given the obligations that Parliament has imposed on itself and obliged the Council of Ministers to do something, I find it entirely inappropriate that today at the House of Representatives we do not have these points of the agenda and address the President of the Council of Ministers appropriately, above all for the draft social programmes, and then these three topics. In the letter I sent you, I quoted exactly what these points of the agenda are called, because they were identically nominated three weeks ago. So maybe any possible argument that says this didn't go through the commission, I don't know what it didn't go through is completely pointless, because three weeks ago we had this on the agenda and it didn't bother us that it didn't go through the relevant commissions, which kind of thing 3 was never going to go through. And unfortunately, the situation is less public knowledge that it's alarming. So that's one proposal to expand the agenda, and I'd like you to make a statement on this. I also referred this to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Chairman, this letter, for one simple reason why the chairman of the Council of Ministers has the opportunity to put this on the agenda on our own, whether we are ready or not. I did it because tomorrow's chairman of the Council of Ministers said it was only Parliament's fault again. If we don't put this on the agenda, then I'm sure we're responsible for this. But this does not amnest the Council of Ministers and the Chairman of the Council of Ministers unless he sees that this is something that is necessary. So that's four points of the agenda. And Mr. Chairman, I'm running for another item on the agenda, and I'm going to deliver her name to you in writing. I'm afraid the explanation isn't necessary, and if it's necessary, I can tell you about it later. The public of these days is most slightly focused on the shameful events related to passports and tables and on the fact that this is something that is outrageous and in every country in the world, the Council of Ministers would fly away, minimally, and about the Minister that I don't even speak to the one responsible. I would therefore ask, I am not running for what would be normal to put a agenda here - a change of the Council of Ministers for this, but I am still going towards trying to solve something, and therefore I am running for a agenda, asking for an address or a chairman of the Council of Ministers, or someone in charge of the Council of Ministers, to give us information on the situation relating to the issue of passports and car plates with an indicative plan of activity on the urgent solution of this problem, with an appropriate reference to giving and seeking responsibility for those who have led to this. I can explain this as much as any of you can explain, and I think the least I can say is unnecessary to go into detail. There is no man in this country, and unfortunately even those who can't travel anywhere, because they have no money for it, and they have no car, and they are concerned about this because they see that the country is falling apart in an organisational sense, naturally, thank God, only in organizational terms. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18816	Thank you. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? Mr Miloš Jovanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18817	The esteemed presidency, esteemed colleagues, it seems to me that it was last year, and perhaps it was the conclusion of this house that we do not get these party symbols in future tables. I think Mr. Lagumdžija could have delivered this as an MP or on behalf of the MPs' club. 4 I was uncultured last time, to admit, so I tore up this party symbol. This time I won't tear up, but I'd like to ask professional service, so more at my desk, means on my desk, it means no one's party symbol. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18818	Mr. Lagumdžija. Business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18819	First of all, I don't have to put in a memo to know I'm president of the SDP. I assume you're familiar with that, Mr. Jovanović. But the party symbol is as much a symbol as any other organisational unit or entity in this country. We've got party memos on our desks, pardon the correspondence of an association that acts like a party. So we at the tables get quite naturally in the original of those materials that are initiated by the relevant institutions and I respect it and I think it's normal to know who they are, and we don't need at least in this House of Representatives we came as party representatives from the party lists, so the parties aren't illegal in this House. However, I fear we will go far away if we start to tear up party symbols of legal parties, even those behind whom war crimes is still unlit, and yet I am not disgusted with these things, at least in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18820	Mr Miloš Jovanović, answer to business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18821	Mr. Chairman, if you allow it means in future that this means we're getting party symbols, so I'm saying now that on behalf of the MPs' club that we're going to be in the future, so when an SDS MP is going to be doing anything, that means this one has an SDS sign.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18822	Okay. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? Mr. Jozo Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18823	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, I will look back on the 8th item of the agenda and immediately say that I highly appreciate the organised public debate in the context of the relations between the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the status, future OHR status and its powers. 5 The public debate was really high quality and the conclusions that were made to the team, i.e. which are proposed here to the House, are very good. However, I would like to remind you of fellow respected colleagues that as SDP Club, we are 10.3. This means four months ago and here, ten days ago in the parliamentary procedure, we have referred the motion for a resolution on the relationship between institutions also called the Proposal for a resolution on the relationship between the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina according to the mandate and the appointment of a new High Representative of the international community. I would like to remind you that from this resolution it has been taken and the title and those key views have been incorporated into these conclusions as well. What I want to say now is that I propose that this item of the agenda be expanded and that it is said – a motion for a resolution on the relationship of BiH institutions to the OHR mandate, etc. and conclusions as it is now formulated in the agenda, so from a public debate on this subject organised by the Foreign Affairs Commission. Why is this important? In addition, these conclusions call on the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in line with their powers, to be actively involved in the election, definition, etc. a future high representative. Our experience with the conclusions of this home is bad. Most of the time, they don't respect each other, and they don't carry out the conclusions of this home. And that is why we believe that the adoption of a resolution like this as we have formulated the relationship between the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina towards the election and mandate of the High Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the future High Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina, would have one strong message, one of the great importance that at least one institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina has a resolution on this matter. So Parliament would in a clear way manifest itself on this problem. And on the other side, I stand for procedure. The resolution, as you know, is defined by the Rules of Procedure as a particular document which can adopt this House and, given that it entered the parliamentary procedure four months ago and a few days ago, almost 4.5 months ago, that it must have its epilogue. Let it be rejected, or accepted, but I think it can be accepted because it is fully wet and reflectes its own, many of its views are woven into these conclusions, etc. And we simply want it to be respected by the Poslovniki of Procedure that this resolution is not discussed when a new High Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina arrives, when it is completely inaccurate. Here I am asking you to understand, so we have two options to put into the agenda of resolutions as resolutions, or to bring it into this existing eighth item of the agenda, which should read – a motion for a resolution on the relationship between the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina according to the election and mandate of the High Representative and the conclusions of the public debate, etc. etc. as it is already said in this draft agenda. Thank you. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18824	I thank you, too. Mr. Beriz Belkić. Have Mrs. Majkić Dušanka prepare herself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18825	Here, I am not really inclined to abuse time in the context of the debate on the agenda and enter into the sphere of discussion on the scale of the matter, but I felt the need to comment on the initiative in some way, that is, Mr Lagumdžija's proposal. Obviously, this fact that members of the Expansive College didn't just end up sharing information with their clubs about the essence of the proposal when it comes to the plan of activities stemming from these documents that we discussed and these social programs. The BiH party is absolutely on the line to discuss such things, a team before we think we are truly being manipulated at the time when we only agreed on two different texts of the passed law, etc. And when we're firmly promised they'll be by 31st, etc. and the social programme, etc. So we've been cheated and we're absolutely up for it. However, I was about to say that we at the Expansive College have agreed that we will have a session on July 27th and as far as we are concerned, we absolutely support it, we consider it a very important debate on these issues, but we are inclined to do so on July 27th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18826	I would like to thank Mrs Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18827	I want to speak in a similar spirit as Mr Belkić. In line with the proposal put forward by Mr Lagumdžija, I really believe that the problem spoken of here is serious and has demanded a very serious debate in the current debate and a public debate on the subject of disputed quotas has been organised. Given the many different opinions and attitudes, given that the public is very upset with this view, I don't think it would be questionable to put this item on the agenda today because the commission hasn't finished work yet and we expect it to be done today or tomorrow. So for the next session of Parliament we will have prepared, not only this point, which is of 15.4. but also these two which are only 29.6. So I don't think it would be directed to put these three points on the agenda today. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18828	Thank you, Mrs. Majkić. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18829	Yes, I also wanted to say on this trail about the commission's work. Namely, the commission was convened and had no quorum. I think this is an opportunity to point out the fact that it's very difficult to put the quorums together at the sessions, I'm reading this commission. And this is an opportunity to point out and invite the MPs to attend the sessions. Unfortunately, I must say, the session was not attended by members of the Sarajevo commission. So the commission is called, people from Banja Luka come, come from beyond, etc., and from Sarajevo we don't have any members of the commission. I don't think, first of all, correct towards colleagues, losing the day, coming up etc. and not to come to the session without saying that this is an urgent question which the Commission pointed to last time, has been actively involved and we have drawn conclusions about these burning issues and we thought we should consider, it is not considered from these facts that the members of the commission have not attended the session. However, I would also like to say something about this report by the Foreign Affairs Commission. I find that report a little unusual, and if accepted in the form of conclusions, I find this report unacceptable. I think this is a condition that has no basis and no need. I would draw attention to this opportunity at point 4. Most of the public debate participants supported the position of the Venice Council of Europe Commission on how it is still early for the removal of the High Representative's powers and how the full weakness of his powers should be said in parallel with the constitutional reform that exists in BiH. To tie this to the Constitution and reform doesn't make sense. And that's conditioning again. So we ourselves are constantly expanding the conditions for European integration. That's a fact. So we create for ourselves, increase, extend the conditions for... So for me, this report is unacceptable. According to my information, some members were not involved in making these conclusions at all. They told me that the president himself wrote this report, which is also unauthorized and unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18830	I'm thanking you. I'd like to ask my colleagues, so this has already been a debate about the essence of a document. The place of the debate, when a debate is opened during the agenda. I'd like to ask my colleagues. We're on the agenda now. Any new suggestions or suggestions on the agenda? Thank you very much. 8 I conclude the debate on the agenda and we move on to a statement. Before we move on to a statement of several clarifications. First of all, I am pleased that Mr Kunić today said he had problems, publicly informed Parliament in the functioning of the commission due to the lack of quorum. I must say immediately that we are all professionals here and that this is the first obligation of each MP, we are not all, so mostly all, there are several exceptions, people who are not professionals, but mostly all of us and this is an opportunity for the Administrative Commission, I am now publicly considering this issue and trying to propose the introduction of appropriate measures of responsibility for those who are unwarrantedly missing from the meetings of the working bodies of this Parliament. It can be arranged through financial effects, through wages, through the benefits that are received here, and this is a good proposal and a good opportunity for the Administrative Commission to come forward to Parliament with one such proposal. That's one thing. Another thing, or the next thing about the agenda itself. I will go in order and give a review, so I will inform you of the positions of the College and, of course, I will put the matter to the vote the way the procedure requires. So, the first proposal that has arrived today is actually the advance of Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, who suggests that in today's agenda, today's session agenda, these materials that concern the plan of activities stemming from the effects and evaluations, I am now reading the document that you have all received, the tariff quotas introduced, the status of the trade deficit and the measures to reduce it and the effects of the early suspension of part of the free trade agreement with the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro. Then Parliament comes out with a draft of social programmes to mitigate the consequences of the collection of basic life supplies through the introduction of VAT and the topics which are the basis for addressing the growing economic and social problems. That's about the name of all these topics. I read them from two passports from Mr. Lagumdžija's memo. He repeated his request today. We had this issue at the College this morning, so I want to inform you on the extended college of this topic, and these documents are in front of the competent commission and they have a procedure like all the documents in Parliament. It is true that it was the subject of the debate at the plenary session, that was included in the agenda, and was later removed from the agenda, but we believe it is necessary to declare this commission. The House of Representatives session was planned on July 27th, as Mr Belkić informed you, we agreed at a session of the Extended College this morning, and if the commissions finish this by then, this will be a topic and I urge the commission to complete this. We are, in fact, thank you, Mr. Belkić, so we have concluded that this committee is over and that it is the theme of the 27th session. However, if Mr Lagumdžija insists that we vote on this and for today's session, I will put it to the vote. 9 Do you stay with your proposal, Mr Lagumdžija? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18831	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. First here you have three foreign policy, foreign trade topics that you listed here. The effects and assessments of the introduction of tariff quotas, then the state of trade deficit and measures to reduce it and the third topic are the effects of a temporary suspension and part of a free trade agreement with the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro. The three topics we have concluded on 10.3., 10.3. of this year are to be held at the session of Parliament next. 10.3 this year, here's the fifth month we walked in. That's one thing. And since it's not on the committees, you say now let the commission finish again. I still insist that we get to the bottom of this, because I think this is the only way that we can talk about this by opening this debate, even if it's decided by the commissions again. But the agenda point – The draft social programmes easing the consequences of the collection of basic life supplies following the introduction of VAT is not on any commission. Please. And don't lock up here until the commission's done. Because this isn't on the board at all. So, the draft social programs is the conclusion of this home last December and we had a prime minister here three weeks ago who killed himself explaining to us that he was ready to shake it in our faces. He's not on any committee. So, by respecting your logic, I accept the logic that this goes to the commission first, these three points because they're on the board, although I don't think that's the way I insist that we do it, but this draft social agenda has nothing to do with the commissions, so we can have it the way the chairman does today, because it's not going to be on any of them. And that's why I'd like to ask you to make a statement about it, because as you well know well, I'm glad you're up to business, we're not all professionals here. I'm not a professional in this House, but it doesn't give me that, it doesn't give you the right to treat me like someone who doesn't know what's going on in committees and what's going on, because I know very well and I participate in it even though I'm not professionally paid in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18832	Thank you. Mr. Lagudmžij, I don't know why you concluded this last thing you said, because I didn't actually say anything on the subject, so I just asked if you were staying with your proposal. We're not having another discussion right now. You're staying with your proposals. We're not having any more discussion. We've closed the debate. Ten questions. Here you go. A quick question. Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18833	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The question concerns that I could be determined according to Lagumdzija's proposal, it is very important to me whether we, what is our guarantee that by 27 we will have done reports from the competent committees, because I think these issues are all too important to welcome September and the end of our annual vacations. So what's the guarantee, and I'd like to have these social issues about VAT at that session too, so that we're prepared, we bring the papers, we prepare our own debate. So you can guarantee us that. I must say, you're not exactly an amateur. You're not a professional, but you're not even an amateur.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18834	Yeah. Thank you. So, I've already said that it's session 27 that the College thinks that all these documents and this draft social programme should go through the competent commission and it will be implemented in the agenda of the 27th session and the commissions are called on to do their part of the job. But, but my colleague Lagumdžija insists that we vote on this and I put Mr Lagudmžija's proposal to the vote. Prepare to vote. We're voting about, please,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18835	Please, I, Mr. Chairman, I have five points of the agenda, completely, these passports and tables are one point, then
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18836	Please, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18837	Please, just a minute, excuse me, the draft of social programs is a complete subject for itself separate from these and you've only just now told me you think I should go to the board, which means that in one six months this will come on the agenda. Please don't do that. So one vote at a time, please. Nothing costs you anything. You have the majority to bring this down, but there's no problem. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18838	Mr. Lagumdžija, please, everything will be done by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you for this clarification. You suggested you were two points on the agenda, today you are, the second is on passports and plates. It will be put to a vote, so you've now set this first point at five points and you're looking for or four, and I don't know, and you're asking specifically to vote on each and it will be done that way. There's no need to get nervous and we'll go in line as you pointed out in your letter. Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18839	I really apologize, the way it is formulated, the way it is proposed absolutely is no one against the debate of social programs. We've been looking for them like you, in exactly the same way. But this morning, this morning, as an MP, I'm not talking about commissions or anyone, I got the paper that was written on 18.7. this morning I got it, I'm not like Beriz Belkić ready to talk about it today. That's what it's all about, Zlatko. I'm really asking you not to put us in a position. We'll vote for it. Here's what we're going to do. We're going to vote on the agenda. So what do we do? Here's the vote, and what do we do then?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18840	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18841	I found out this morning we're trying to do it today.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18842	Thank you very much. I think it's stuff. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18843	Someone unscathed would've helped if I had a bit of a cold here, Mr. Belkić. I don't know how you're not ready to talk about it today when you were ready to talk about this three weeks ago when you had a preliminary exposure and a split material here. What? Three-week amnesia. Three weeks ago, three weeks ago, we were ready to talk about this. And today we're not.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18844	Okay. Thank you very much. Please, nice. 12 Dear colleagues, please don't need to, there's no need to bring any anxiety. We'll get to the bottom of this. So I put it, we have, as I understand it under this first proposal, there are actually a few suggestions that Mr. Lagumdžija insists we make known. The first is the draft of social programmes to mitigate the consequences of the collection of basic life supplies following the introduction of VAT. I'm putting this one, please nice, I'll put an end to it. This is the very proposal we're pleading on. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 14 for, 15 against. The proposal did not receive general parliamentary support. We're moving on to another one, you'll get a list. Please, you don't need to do that. Give me all the documents. You'll get what you want. Then we go like this. The next thing you know from this document is that I'm going to read it, it's all here, so picture a plan of activities that stem from the effects and estimates of the tariff quotas introduced. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - Ten for, 17 against, six abstentions. The proposal did not receive parliamentary support. Then – the state of trade deficit and measures to reduce it, that is. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 11 for, 16 against, 8 abstentions. The proposal did not receive parliamentary support. Then, the proposal concerning the effects of a temporary suspension of part of the free trade agreement with the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 12 for, versus 15, 8 abstentions. The proposal did not receive the necessary support. In this way, we've exhausted a set of these proposals relating to this, this first proposal Mr. Lagumdžija spoke of. 13 The second proposal by Mr Lagumdžija reads this – that the Council of Ministers delivers information today on the issue of passports and car plates with a proposal for activities to resolve this problem and determine responsibility for the situation. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 23 for, 6 against, 4 abstentions. Enough entity majority. The tenth item of the agenda is this proposal by Mr Lagudmžija. This is how we exhausted Mr. Lagumdžija's proposals. Let's go to Mr. Joza Križanović's proposal. Mr Jozo Križanović suggested that the item of agenda 8 reads – Proposal for a resolution of the SDP, well, Proposal for a resolution so, Proposal for a resolution on the ratio of institutions to the mandate of the High Representative and the conclusions of the Commission. So this is about the next one. Mr. Križanović explained it. Mr. Raguž, President of the Committee on Foreign Policy, and here we as the College discussed this issue this morning, and we today have a precise point of the agenda, these are the conclusions of the Commission on Foreign Policy, which, when processing material, took into account both all resolutions and all initiatives. This resolution is not the only initiative on this issue and based on this, it has proposed conclusions. Therefore, the College estimates that the agenda should be defined as defined now. However, Mr Križanović suggests that the agenda point is called as he explained in the name of the proposal for this resolution, and here I put his proposal to the vote. Okay, or to be classified as a special point. I'm putting his proposal to a vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - Nine for, 18 against, eight abstentions. I find this proposal not accepted. Dear colleagues and colleagues, after this I find that today's 62nd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina has the following agenda 1. The adoption of minutes 59, 60 and 61 of the House of Representatives, 2. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. The request of MP Milorad Živković to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 14 4. Proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH (first reading), 5. Proposal for a law on the protection of classified data (first reading) – Proposer of the Joint Security and Intelligence Commission, 6. Proposal for a law on road safety (first reading), 7. Report from the Joint Commission on Efforts to Reach an Agreement on the Identical Text of the Foreign Office Act, 8 / 8 The Foreign Affairs Commission's conclusions of the House of Representatives on "The Relations of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina according to the mandate of the international community in Bosnia and Herzegovina". Nine. Giving consent to ratification: – Credit and financial agreement between Creditantalt fur Wiederufbau Frankfurt am Mmain (KfW) and Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska – Rehabilitation of the city water supply in the Unsko-San region and 10. Information from the Council of Ministers on the issue of passports and car passports with a proposal for action to address this problem and determine responsibility for the situation I call on the representatives of the Council of Ministers to inform the competent services of the Council of Ministers to prepare themselves by the 10th point of the agenda so that we can continue to work normally at today's session. Moving to the first point of the agenda, that's one. The adoption of minutes 59, 60 and 61 of the House of Representatives session I am opening a debate on all these records, and we will vote separately. Who wants to talk? Mrs. Ljiljana Milićević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18845	Actually, I have technical repairs and mathematical records. Once again, this version means the minutes of the 60th session of the House of Representatives are written after the end of the 29th session. It's not 29th, it's 59th for the archives. The second minutes from the 61st session of the House of Representatives say that 25 MPs are present, and we list 18 who are absent. We have 43 members, MPs in the House. Mathematical error.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18846	Who else wants to talk? 15 I conclude the debate with these remarks of a technical nature, I would ask the services not to repeat these things again. So in addition to these remarks by Ms Milićević, which are of a technical nature, I suggest we make a statement about the records. We're voting on the minutes of the 59th session. Prepare to vote. Vote now. The minutes from the 59th session were unanimously adopted as far as I can see. 33 for, no problem, no abstentions. Prepare to vote on the minutes of the 60th session. Vote now. And this record from the 60th session was unanimously adopted. 31 for, no problem, no abstentions. And we have a record from the 61st session. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Vote, Mr. Špirić. And this record was unanimously adopted with 30 votes for, without votes against, without abstentions. We're going to the second item of the agenda, that's 1. Parliamentary questions and answers For this session the answers were received by Mrs. Ruža Sopta asked at the 47th session. Azra Hadžiahmetović at 48. Sead Avdić, Muhamed Moranjkić, Selim Bešlagić, Muhamed Suljkanović at the 50th session. Ivo Lozančić, Nikola Špirić and Mirsad Ćeman at the 53rd session. Seada Palavrić and Beriz Belkić attend the 58th session. Are there any comments delivered? Who wants to talk? Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, Mr. Moranjkić, let Mr. Lozančić be prepared, etc. You write further.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18847	Thank you very much. I finally got the answer, but this question is in some way related to the problem here's the Law on the Safety of Traffic which regulates the issue of driving licences, etc., but my question was actually about interstate agreements. 16 Namely, a number of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who are here and I represent here in this House have a question and I have passed on their question - How will they use Bosnia and Herzegovina's driving licenses in the Republic of Italy as a valid document without having to take a driving test there? That's where these things go slowly. I have received an answer that does not give a very complete picture, nor an explanation of this issue but rather speaks about the validity of our driving licences that can be used in countries abroad at a certain time. This is about people who work there, who didn't go there on vacation, but they're a year, two, three, etc. They need a document, as well as an interstate agreement that they simply do not have to take a driving test in Italy again, and for 30 years they have been driving, etc. etc. I am therefore not satisfied with the answer, and I am asking, in the extreme case that this aspect should be addressed, i.e. to encourage the competent authorities, here is the resolution ministry, and tomorrow, this Parliament, too, to bring the issues of interstate agreements and in this area to an end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18848	Thank you very much. Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18849	What is unusual, gentlemen fellow MPs, I will comment on two things. I'll comment on the question and comment on the answer. The question is, if one of the MPs in this room got it, and I think he can see that in interpretation it's totally massacred and written on purpose, or not on purpose, so it's unreasonable, illegible and illiterate. You should read it and see that I think of 40 MPs in the O.R., including me two could encrypt or decrypt that question. So there's the remark. There's an objection to the answer. The answer is as much as a criminal question, because the claims in the answer that have been made are not correct, I argue they are not correct. On the contrary, at least 50% worse than what I claimed and cited, not as it says in the answer. Furthermore, the answer states how it should be done. So it's prescribed from some document, whether it's from the law, whether it's from someone's rules of procedure, etc. And I agree that's how it should work. I probably wouldn't even ask a question if it was done like I was answered. But I know that's not how you work at that crossing, I know that unfortunately this country and this people are organized crime there. Furthermore, they are not done, and when I say this, I say that not all who come to the crossing with the same, similar goods, and especially high-tariff goods. There's no priority on paper, and I know, every kid in this country knows that, but in practice 17 there, who stops for half an hour and sees that he does. That's why I asked the question of getting someone involved and trying to get rid of it. Why doesn't everybody go to the terminal? Why does one part of the importer and the freight forwarder leave the bridge on the left, and one part goes to the right, because the left road goes to the terminal, and the right road goes to free, free traffic? My data, I say, is not made up, it's the data taken from the people who work on that customs, the officials, but who are not in the criminal network that's going on at that crossing. The situation at the Gunja customs crossing is not the product of a new organization as someone wanted to say. I may have said it in a different way, but it is a product of inherited criminal work that has been done at that crossing before the organisation's entry into force and when it comes to customs and when it comes to the involvement of CAFAO and when it comes to the introduction of VAT. This response from the Council of Ministers tells me that someone is protecting a situation like this that I publicly say in this House is criminal. Why is it done like that? I can tell, and probably you can. And I'd like this question to be practically an initiative to shut it there and not do it like that anymore. What I'm being answered from the question I'm asking further and criminally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18850	Mr. Ivo Lozančić. Have Mr. Petar Kunić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18851	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm satisfied. Relatively quickly I got the answer compared to other questions took much longer to get an answer. And also most of the text, but we can't all be satisfied, none of us can be pleased that it hasn't been adopted yet, that it hasn't been adopted at one entity home and that the power of the Energy Ministry has not passed. And especially in the last part of the text where one passivity of the Council of Ministers was seen, and a more active role of the Council of Ministers was expected since the new year we will only have the Ministry of Defence at the state level, so that they will partly use services, i.e. they will have the need to cooperate closer with the ministries that will carry out dedicated production. We also know in the past how the licenses for the transport of parts of the product from the intended production and military industry were applied, and also in the part of the inspections and controls that now belonged to the foreign trade ministry. So I can't be completely satisfied, and I'm particularly unhappy because the Council of Ministers here is passive and there's no activity to take over most of the production control. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18852	Thank you very much. Mr. Petar Kunić. Have Mr. Selim Bešlagić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18853	The Honorable Presidency, I am not answering the question asked, but I am reporting to indicate that I intervened on 2-3 occasions, I did not get an answer on the question raised by the ICC, where I sought the structure of the management staff, the national structure, the way employees were appointed in the sector back three months. I didn't get that answer. I received 2-3 letters from former people, persons who worked in the sector, which points to a number of anomalies in the work of the Directorate for Direct Taxation. I wouldn't be saying these things right now because I didn't determine those facts, so I can't even speak. But certainly, as our people say, where there is smoke, there is fire, and I would ask the College to intervene on this matter, because that is not only underestimating the MPs, but also the College. No Niko here is given to God and no one can. State officials cannot deny the questions, the parliamentary questions to be asked and to which they should be answered. It's the obligation of every civil servant. So I ask the College to take appropriate measures in that regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18854	Thank you very much. Mr. Selim Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18855	I will first ask the question from 12.01.2005 on stamps and the answer is that in fact stamps can be used. However, the conclusion is, until July 30, 2005, i.e. Until they bring unique stamps. I mean, June 30th, there's been a brand mess again, because I'm just talking about inconclusive taxation, and I'm not picking out a printing press that's going to print stamps, I'm just talking about inconclusiveness. I am pleased with the answer, but here by June 30th, it has been shown that this question has been justified, because the Directorate for indirect taxation is not doing its job. They did not allow single stamps to be printed for Bosnia and Herzegovina, thus causing confusion again, so it is said that entities can print out a sufficient portion of the stamps and now they do not take over the job. The indirect tax administration doesn't do its job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18856	Thank you very much. No new comments. Let's get some new questions. 19 Who wants to ask a question? Mrs. Seada Palavrić, first, Mr. Moranjkić, then write further, raise your hands and let the secretary write you down, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18857	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know that yesterday the Defence Reform Commission finished a months-long job and signed the concept of the Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Law on Armed Forces Service. My question is about the table fact and I'm asking it to the Communications Regulatory Agency. Namely, on central TV, the daily II of the Federal TV Bosnia and Herzegovina was broadcast at the beginning of 19.30, 18.7. Information on the Commission's defence reform report, resulting from seven months of work, was broadcast in the second part of the diary, while all other electronic media started their information emissions with the event of the day, which was the Commission's report on defence reform. In contrast, in the first minutes of the same daily, the Federal TVBiH introduced the entire letter of the SDP president, addressed to the chairman of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives and the BiH Council of Ministers, which should also be one of the 57 equal members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for Federal TV. I ask the Communications Regulatory Agency to assess whether such behaviour has fulfilled its obligation to provide timely and impartial information to the public and other criteria required for the broadcasting authorisation as a public service provider? Unless I expect RAC to sanction this continued behaviour of Federal TVBIH with adequate sanctions. And I ask the service to pass this question immediately, because there are deadlines here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18858	Thank you. Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18859	Thank you. I have two questions. - On 24.3. this year, I submitted an interpretation under Rule 130 to 133 of our Rules of Procedure concerning the adoption of laws which regulate the content and the work of the Administrative Commission, since in the last two audit reports it was shown as a lack, and this home remained silent, and even on the orders of that audit. - 4.5., so after a month and a half at his 63rd session, the College finally considered my interpretation and assessed that it had passed under alleged signs into the parliamentary question and that within 60 days, in the Council of Ministers, these laws were prepared and put into 20 parliamentary procedures in writing by means of a shortened or semi-minored procedure. That's what I've been waiting for. Question. Since it's been 75 days, not 60 days, when these laws will come into parliamentary procedure, because it's been given you see a 60-day deadline long ago, and there's no law on the line. And question number two. – This House is known that I have submitted proposals and initiatives to amend the Election Law on several basiss, and normally what is regularly in this Parliament has been rejected. My latest proposal is related to the introduction and acceptance of a passive voter registration system in Bosnia and Herzegovina in co-operation with the CIPS project. After the rejection and this proposal, and at the end of May of this year, the BiH Election Commission addressed the information I understand and as an initiative to consider introducing a passive registration system for voters in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Question – What about this information and initiative and why this problem is not being raised to this home so it is not too late before the elections that it was usually my answer, although I appeared at least half a year before the election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18860	Thank you very much. Mr. Suljkanović. Here you go. Who's next? We have no records here, Križanović, further, Žigić, Lozančić, Hadžić, Lozančić, Belkić. Write it all down. Here's Suljkanović, or Šuljkanović, I don't know what to call you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18861	I'm asking the Council of Ministers to deliver a report to the House of Representatives on the state of play on the design of the scheduler's study documentation for the highway on Corridor Vc. The request would be included in the Council of Ministers' obligation to inform Parliament of the highway on Corridor Vc. We know there were no such reports. In particular, it would be interesting to obtain this report, given that the planer’s study documentation should have been completed on 1 July, and has information that for lot 3 and lot 4 in most segments this planer study documentation has been assessed negatively.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18862	Thank you very much. Mr. Beriz Belkić. Beriz, then Mr. Križanović. Here you go, sir. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18863	Thank you. I'm actually going to ask two questions on the initiative of two organizations, or one is individual, one is collective. We all got these initiatives, so I've estimated that it wasn't bad for a man to ask questions. So, the Council of Ministers is a question and I ask whether the Council of Ministers will react and, under allegations, to the latest appeal of the innovators Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't have a particular explanation. People have provided the entire file with practical documentation to prove that their activity is of particular importance, it is also obvious about their status. So I expect the Council of Ministers to react even though it is addressed to them, to make this appeal. The second question is also to the Council of Ministers, and to the initiative of a young man, the question to the Council of Ministers is: Are you thinking, or are you possibly conducting activities to examine the possibility of introducing tax reliefs in the first purchase of an apartment for young people? So housing problems are one of the very important even sometimes decisive problems that people choose to go outside Bosnia and Herzegovina. Man cites experiences from neighbouring countries, for example in Croatia stimulates shopping and facilitates the purchase of young people in the first purchase of up to 40 years. People are exempt from paying taxes according to certain criteria and to certain squares, etc. Here are those two questions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18864	Thank you very much. Mr. Jozo Križanović. Here you go. Have Mr. Izet Hadžić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18865	I'm one of the MPs in this house who's asked very few parliamentary questions, but that's why I didn't get a single answer to any questions. And of course, at some point, I've become detimised to ask these questions, and since today this side is empty, I will not, of course, ask the Council of Ministers, but I would like to ask our college a question. I think it's an explanation, and I'm putting in place about this resolution that we talked about when we adopted the agenda. Of course it's not, things don't stand the way they've been given the president's arguments and I'm simply asking the question -- it's been four months and a few months, and I'm now asking a simple question that I think I'm going to get an answer to. So I ask the College of ours – when will the 22 resolution on the BiH Assembly's relationship, etc. to be included in the order, in the agenda of this house? Here's a simple question.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18866	Answer. The easy answer is when we get a report from the committee responsible according to your resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18867	That means we can discuss when we get a new representative, then we'll discuss this motion for this resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18868	I don't know. That's how you figure it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18869	You need to know that, Mr. Chairman, and you need to keep an eye on and respect the Rules of Procedure on the work of this house, and not to keep a simple motion of a simple resolution for 5-6 months, knowingly. I can now say it's a conscious detention.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18870	I respect the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Raguž. I'll just have a quick answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18871	So this is a replica of what Mr. Križanović is for the third time today means, through different forms and different methodologies, as a question. I have followed you well, so the Commission for Foreign Affairs, which the chairman is now talking about, when she puts on the agenda, that he will put on the agenda, and I have also informed him and the College that, in the contents of these conclusions, the relationship to the SDP resolution is contained. And one would say a transparent and responsible relationship in which a significant part of that resolution was an incentive for these conclusions. And this has been told on several occasions to the representatives of the SDP Club and today has an open space for discussion through these conclusions and on whether and to what extent this resolution has experienced, or promotion, its objective and once again I stress this topic is not for day-to-day political and party-use, but for one serious and strategic relationship between the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina towards the future and the role of the High Representative, its perspective and the way in which the future mandate will be determined and I, as the chairman of the Commission, argue that we have done so, and this is not a question in five days. You see, it's a matter of timing, an evaluation, and I think it's well-prepared for a serious 23 debate today. And when you lead to a quality breakdown, you four times go into party interventions like this. So you can keep going, but I'm going through the debate today to explain some of the things that you're really setting through procedural intervention in a political sense. These conclusions contain the Commission's relationship which considers that the resolution has not affected all the more important elements, but has given some of the answers presented today. You have the opportunity to correct or bring...
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18872	Come on, please. You'll get your word to Mr. Križanović. Just for a little while. This was a question and answers. Let me know for a minute if you have a comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18873	As I understand it, this was supposed to be the answer to the College's answer to my question. I'm totally not happy with the answer. Here is now the debate on the content of the resolution in conclusions, etc. I'm asking the procedural question. Please. When an epilogue will experience a document that has entered a normal debate in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18874	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18875	Nothing. The simplest question.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18876	I won't answer to anyone. Which would suit me. Please, nice. Thank you very much. Mr. Izet Hadžić. Have Mr. Niko prepare, or Ivo Lozančić. I'm sorry. Ivo Lozančić, then Mr Lagumdžija. Actually, he's got a Lagumdžija. Mr. Lagumdžija will come to order after Ljilja, here's the Secretary of the House, with a question. You'll be written down. So, Sead Avdić, Mr. Sead. You write it all down nicely. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18877	I would ask the question – Why is the agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Italy mutually regulated international roads of passenger and freight transport kept so long in preparation for ratification? Two years and three months right now. 24 What damage did he cause in international transport, and with whom was this document retained? Not to put in great explanations, I think this CEMT license issue for Italy is regulated by this contract, and I'm more inclined to suspect that it is knowingly retained in the procedure than to address this problem by agreement. And the second question – What about similar agreements between Austria and Hungary, because the same problem regulates the protection of CEMT permits, and it would probably be easier for our transport organisations to solve the problem by solving these contracts.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18878	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivo Lozančić. Let Mrs Ljilja Milićević prepare herself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18879	Thank you, Chairman. My question for the three electricity companies that invest in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and since they cannot ask my question is for the Council of Ministers to come to an answer through the agency of three power plants, and the reason for asking the question is that the accompanying indicators of production and consumption of electricity at the premises of Bosnia and Herzegovina can come to a deficit in two years, or we can spend a lot more, so we will be importers. Namely, we've been since the '90s. For years we produced 12,813 gigawatts, and our consumption was 11,535 gigawatts. Devastations in the war and destruction of '96. We've reduced to 5%, and we haven't had enough energy to produce. Before the war, 13 hydrocentrals and 4 thermopower plants worked, and the donations to international and rehabilitation and construction and investment in electricity production we reached 89% of production from the '90s in 2003. But we've also increased consumption, so we've reached about 95% compared to the '90s. This trend suggests that in two years we would have exceeded the consumption of production and would be addicts, and I don't see from the latter that power plants are particularly investing in electricity production. Most of the time, the recovery and reconstruction of 400 kilovoltage networks for the distribution of electricity transmissions is now being carried out. Well, for that reason, there are no strange announcements for many years that there will be more hydrocentres here than foreign investors, which means they're waiting for the moment when we'll be addicted to selling electricity to us and that our hydropotentials get very cheap and use it to convert and sell electricity. For these reasons, and because it is not yet resolved, nor is the question of joint investment and the use of hydropotentials with neighbouring countries for electricity production, I am asking a question for three electricity industries - whether they are taking into account the construction of new energy facilities to modernise the existing uses of some other sources that are now very widespread in the world, the production of wind energy. Normal and further production of energy with international 25 environmental standards and is there any common strategy or strategy of these electricity industries for, at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina for production, so that we do not come into addiction and that we are not importers of electricity, regardless of our hydro and thermal potential?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18880	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ljiljana Milićević. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, get ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18881	My question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, i.e. to the competent ministries. What is fate, i.e. what did the Council of Ministers take, who are the operators of the activities, if they are taken on the report submitted by the European Committee for the Prevention of Tortrum and Inhumane Behavior by the CPT on the basis of its last year's visit to Bosnia and Herzegovina, specifically to the female prison? It is known that this European Committee is the Council of Europe's body and is composed of experts and countries and is responsible for the members of the Council of Europe for the whole territory, i.e. I am interested in whether we as MPs can get that report, or it is accidentally in one of our ministry officials' drawers and is waiting to issue a invoice for standards that we did not respect. This time, specifically in prisons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18882	Mr. Lagumdžija. Thank you very much. Let Mr. Avdić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18883	Excuse me. My question is offered by the question I heard here today, and it reads - Does the Council of Ministers also think when they will educate the MPs of their ruling majority, such as Mrs Palavrić, not to ask unsatisfactory questions stemming from the total ignorance of the principles of democratic institutions of public services, why is the best example of its question today, you have it in hand, about federal television, which shows that it has nothing to do with the mandate of the RAC and is being closely partyal and personal frustrations, because the public service is not private or party? Signed by Zlatko Lagumdžija, SDP MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18884	Mr. Sead Avdić. Here you go. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18885	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, honored guests, the Council of Ministers, our club means the Party of Pensioners and Retireds and two Independent MPs are looking for the following, which is that we are asking that the parties of the parliamentary majority in the written form of delivery to the MPs of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the political programme on which they will act by the end of the term of office, in particular from the aspect of police reform, the dynamics of European integration and Euro-Atlantic association. involvement in the Partnership for Peace. And we're apostrophe of two laws on Higher Education and the Law on the Public Radio Television System. In case the parliamentary majority does not have such a document, and since there is no answer we ask the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18886	Thank you. In this way, we have concluded the point of parliamentary matters. We're going to the third item of the agenda, that's A.3. The request of MP Milorad Živković to consider the Amendments and Supplements Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure, Mr. Živković, submitted a proposal for this law on 29 June 2005 with a request for consideration under Article 105. It's about the snap elections, as far as I understand. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18887	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, since last time it wasn't according to the Rules of Procedure whether to put it on the agenda, here it came today, however, it wasn't too late. We of the SNSD have been trying to put this issue on the agenda for a long time. We tried through the Election Commission, however, we were told in the Election Commission that they had not yet received other proposals for amending the Election Law, so they cannot put a whole set of proposals on the agenda. We couldn't wait any longer, because apparently someone's obstructing to deliver these proposals to the Electoral Commission, so people can't even put it on the agenda. We thought that there was an obvious legal gap in the law and that one way to get out of the obvious crisis that doesn't last since yesterday but is a little longer is the one that we propose, and that the crisis exists we don't need anyone to fool themselves in Republika Srpska in Parliament was in the spring. It's solved the way it's done. I think that there will continue to be a deterioration in the crisis in the Federation Parliament, how many 27 I am aware of, and today it is on the agenda. We don't need to talk about this in the Council of Ministers. This is one of the ways in which the crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina can be resolved. We think we've given enough explanation and we're asking the MPs to vote for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18888	Who else wants to talk? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on procedure. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - Five for, 19 against, four abstentions. The procedure proposal didn't get the required majority. The law goes into a regular parliamentary procedure. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda, that's Add.4. I would like to remind you that at the 55th session, we have given a new deadline for amendments and further consideration of the Rules of Procedure's proposal in the relevant committee. At that time, we also called on the temporary committee to, for the draft Rules of Procedure to be included on the basis of the discussion at the 55th session, participate in the addition of the text of the Rules of Procedure. On 8 July, the Constitutional and Legal Commission submitted a new report containing 29 amendments adopted by the Commission. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18889	Very short on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, therefore, as the Commission responsible. Given that the work on preparation and here is the consideration of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. the proposal for amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure, is taking longer, given the fact that here we have had the additional deadline set by this House for all those who have been able to offer better solutions than we have at the beginning, and appreciate what is here on the Constitutional and Legal Commission confirmed through the adoption of a good part of these amendments, almost all of them, that a good job has been done and that it is time indeed that these, what is good in these amendments and additions finally be verified, I only on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Commissions here, although we do not practice this constantly, the appeal that just today is the positive response of this home to this job so far done. So let us adopt this Rules of Procedure and give 28 simply the chance to, on the work of this Parliament, this home what we have seen as a possible improvement as soon as possible. As soon as possible, otherwise I think it's clear from the written report what's been accepted, which isn't, and here I hope this is a good done job at least when it comes to the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18890	Thank you very much. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Prepare to vote on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. Rules of Procedure of Parliament's House of Representatives in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 30 for, no problem, no abstentions. Unanimity. I suggest we go, we adopted him in our first reading, so the Rules of Procedure. I suggest we go straight to another reading. But we'll get to the bottom of it. I'm asking you who's in favor of going straight to another reading? Prepare to vote on this issue. Vote now. - 29 for, no problem, no abstentions. We decided to go to another reading. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. We'll see about that. Looks like you were right. I'm closing the debate. We move to a statement on the Rules of Procedure in the second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. May I have your attention, please? 31 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. Enough entity majority. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has adopted the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Someone said this was finally after 2.5 years. It really has been for 2.5 years at last. Now we have to wait for the House of Nations to do so, and then let us agree on some common provisions and determine, the Rules of Procedure has a mechanism when it comes into force. 29 Anyway, thank you, we're going to the fifth item of the agenda, that's Ad.5. The proposal for a code on the protection of classified information can we agree this way that you all talk to each other and that I run a session and so can. But to me somehow. I'll win, you'll get. Or we could listen to each other. Whatever you say, I'll do it. Please, nice. But I think we'd better listen to each other. Proposal for a law on the protection of classified information, first reading, fifth item of the agenda. Proposer Joint Security Intelligence Commission. The bill was submitted by the Joint Security Intelligence Commission of the Parliamentary Assembly. It was delivered in procedure on 25 March 2005. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 12 April. A report by the competent commission on the bill proposal was delivered on 17 June. As you have seen, the Commission adopted one amendment. There are no amendments in the plenary phase. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote on the law in the first reading. Vote now. - 31 for, no problem, no abstentions. Enough entity majority. Law adopted in the first reading. I suggest we go to another reading. We're voting on whether or not we're going to go to another reading. Prepare to answer this question. Now. Cell phone. 31 for, no problem, no abstentions, enough entity majority. You answered, we're gonna go to another reading. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. I'm closing the discussion in the second reading. Prepare to vote on the law in the second reading. Vote now. - 33 for, no problem, no abstentions. Enough entity majority. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina unanimously adopted a Law on the Protection of Secret Information. 30 Let’s go to the sixth item of the agenda, Ad.6. The proposal for a law on the basis of road safety (first reading) legislation was submitted in parliamentary procedure on 17 December 2005, 2004. The opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission was delivered on 17 January this year. The Commission for Transport and Communications shall be responsible. On 23 February this year, the competent commission submitted a report on the opening of a public hearing on the proposal for a traffic safety law. The public hearing report was submitted by the Commission on 7 July. The bill's proposal was also submitted on 7 July 2005. You have seen that the Commission responsible for co-operation and communication has adopted even the 77th amendment. Because of such a large number of amendments, the consolidated text of the law is made up, and I hope you've all got it. In the plenary phase in accordance with Article 94(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Amendment were submitted by Mr Mirsad Ćeman 21 amendments which he wishes to defend at the plenary stage. Adem Huskić has filed two amendments that he wants to defend in the plenary phase, and Mr Milorad Živković has submitted one amendment he also wants to defend at the plenary stage although not properly formulated. Namely, it is up to him to submit an amendment to the amendment to Amendment XXVII. The Commission, in fact, is about the amendment it had in the commission phase and a new position would be adopted on Article 2 of Article 14, 142a). So we're on the law in the first reading. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Majkić Dušanka, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18891	The Honorable Presidency, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, I am reporting to challenge the principles of the proposed law. The law on the security of traffic on Bosnia and Herzegovina's roads is a very complex and large law and you know for a fact that it has caused significant controversy in the public. It contains 13 heads and 250 members, so it covers about 13 wholes. Why do I want to challenge the principles on which this law rests? He did not meet the basic principle, which is to increase the security of traffic that can only be achieved through the reform of the work of car schools and by introducing key reforms in the field of driving exams. So Chapter 8 of this law. The second reason why I challenge principles is – the law meets the principle of humanity, because its provisions do not protect the most vulnerable population of traffic, which are 31 children. The law does not treat the education of children in traffic behaviour, nor does the presence of children cyclists in traffic in the way that all European countries do. And the third reason - the application of this law does not provide citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina with international driver's license status. There was a good question that Mr. Ćeman raised and that he didn't get an answer to. Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens will never be in a position to obtain international driver's license status if they stay in a country for more than 6 months with such a proposed text of the law. I would like to point out that training candidates and passing driving exams is an EU strategy when it comes to road safety. What a security picture in Bosnia and Herzegovina is probably familiar to you all. In 2004, 36,000 car accidents took place on the roads to Bosnia and Herzegovina. 500 people died. Material damage is enormous and is estimated to amount to over 4% of gross national income. No level in this country has discussed such serious issues. How things can change. The only way to move in this area is to act legally, which has been missed in the version of this law. So I'm thinking only of point 8 of Chapter 8. The proposed text of the law is not in line with EU directives.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18892	Cell phones, cell phones. No more cell phones. Turn off your phones. We've reached 100 conclusions on this matter. Give it up, brother. It doesn't make sense. Go on, excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18893	So the proposed text of the law, as I said, is not in line with EU directives in the traffic section. Also, given that the proposed text of the law does not take into account important instructions from the White Paper, or that there are no instructions on what needs to be done to ensure that the driving licence of Bosnian Herzegovina citizens is valid outside. With such a solution, the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina will continue to be discriminated against when they stay abroad for more than 6 months and will have to submit their permission to a subsequent knowledge check. The EU strategy and the conclusions of the World Driver Training Congress provide for four principles in the area of training candidates for passing a driving test none of which are respected in this law. It's a step education, driving under surveillance, issuing a temporary driver's license and subsequent advanced training. 32 Let me just briefly tell you that the first principle i.e. A step-by-step education of candidates allows only a candidate who has a laid "B" category to lay down another "C" or another, which is not defiant in this law. So in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a young man at the age of 18 can come forward at the same time to lay down for category C. It's about as if formal education starts from college down the line. I don't think that's a logical principle that's been passed in law. The second is about driving under surveillance. This implies that a young man aged 16 to 18 must only drive under the control of one of the elderly. Third, the issue of a temporary driver's license takes place outside when a person at the age of 16 listens to theoretical training, completes practical training and passes a driving test. Then he gets a temporary driver's license that's valid until he's 18 years old. After 18 years, a test permit valid for only one year shall be issued, and in order to obtain a final must pass an additional examination concerning certain specific situations, management in certain special eteo conditions, poor road conditions, etc. Therefore, the proposed text of the law does not contain any of the proposed principles that would apply in the EU. Another important thing deviating from the EU directive is the process of passing the driving test itself. Regardless of the widest public in Bosnia and Herzegovina has advocated that an examination be conducted by an agency organised by education ministries, the principle has not been adopted and this responsible social work remains with the commissions formed by the interior ministry. I don't know how many Members of this House know what these commissions look like. But only one piece of information that there are 90 test centres in Bosnia and Herzegovina that employ more than 500 people on the basis of an act contract, so on a part-time basis. These people are on temporary commissions often more than 10 years old. So we know that these commissions are very vulnerable to corruption and that one of the ways we could fight it, and that's precisely why these commissions don't respond, and they were the biggest opportunists in the adoption of this law who didn't accept that this was organised within the ministries, so within the agency. I'll tell you one more piece of information that would be nice to know. I checked for Republika Srpska even though I don't have the information for Bosnia and Herzegovina, an average of 16,000 people pass an annual driving test. These people pay 60 marks. It's a sum of someone close to a million marks. The average driving test is three times. So close to 3 million marks are coming into the budget based on the passing of the driver's exam. These are sufficient funds to finance 150 people who would be professionally and constantly employed by the driver's examinations agency. So for a new way of working Bosnia and Herzegovina must find its own interest. The transition doesn't just mean changing the ownership structure. It means both programming and other change. That is why I believe that it must primarily change consciousness, and this law has been made more in cosmetic changes than has essentially changed what Bosnia and Herzegovina needs. 33 I therefore propose that the proposed version of the law be returned to the Commission for further work in order to cover the basic principles for which such a law is adopted, i.e. to comply with EU directives and the White Paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18894	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr Miloš Jovanović. Here you go, commission president, I mean not for driving exams, but for these parliamentary exams. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18895	Well, you see, I really didn't mean to talk, because we've spent so much time on this law and I'm going to be open like this, and I don't think there's any law that we've passed, and that more time has been spent and it's really not been done seriously. So we had a public debate and asked the College to extend the deadline for the law and all these lobbyists who lobbyed the lady were also on the committee every time. So everyone in the car school, it might be ugly to mention their names. What Mrs. Majkić read, I have it all on me, they all delivered it to us. And well, I don't mind, everyone has the right to say what they have, but I think that, I repeat, means these people who, especially from car schools who normally have people of their own interest so every time they've been invited to the commission and participated means together with the members of the commission to pass this law, or to discuss amendments. You saw for yourself that we had almost 200 amendments. We've adopted over 70 of that. What I might be asking, if there's a possibility that it means by Friday, it's 22. to extend the time to submit the amendments, because talking to some colleagues didn't have enough time, that we got to say what it is, we got to say the law with these adopted amendments, so some colleagues told me they didn't have enough time to read. So if there's a possibility, I don't think it would be a bad idea to extend the deadline for the amendment phase by Friday. That's to say and then maybe this one in some way would all be satisfied and I seem to have passed a good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18896	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18897	Mr Jovanović is absolutely right that this is one of the legal projects that has been approached with great seriousness at least in this procedural part and by conducting public debates and giving opportunities etc. 34 After the presentation of Mrs. Majkić's man, I think the exposure has pointed to several very, very serious things and today it is very important that we know whether it is true or not. Decisions that are not made on verified facts can indeed produce very, very bad consequences. I'm not prone to prolonging this Miloše what you're proposing because of the amendment and this. I'm more inclined to hear the processor. So don't get me wrong. The Commission probably does not have the expertise in terms of the precise and authoritative response to what Mrs. Majkić said. So the processor should go before this parliament and the arguments say - that Mrs. Majkić is right or wrong. You know, there's been a terrible dilemma. I'm in a big dilemma right now. So, Ms. Majkić argued that this legal project does not allow citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to have an internationally recognised licence. That system of training etc. does not comply with European standards, etc. That's big stuff. Here's Mr. Muhamed saying - it's not true! Someone else is going to say it's true! How do we decide things like this? So I ask that the legislator come out and in one serious way this parliament convinces, or reason what Mrs. Majkić was talking about so that we could make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18898	Mr. Živković answered. Before that, just let the MP finish and then we'll do it. I certainly had it planned. So here we have also received a letter as it is called, who will represent this law today in front of the Council of Ministers. Here's the man, he'll get the word. It's about an assistant minister as much as I do, so it's about the Secretary of the Ministry of Communications. So we'll get answers. But before that, MPs. So Mr. Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18899	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this law, as far as I know, has been being prepared at the Council of Ministers for a long time. About six years. He, you should all know he's not in the list of 16 priorities so this law isn't extra urgent. In his own sense, by his own size, he overcomes the possibility of each of us as an MP to be involved in this law as a professional person, or as someone who does not deal with this matter actively enough. I wasn't satisfied with the way the public debate was held either. In fact, we first received the law, and then Parliament organised a public debate through its commission here in Parliament instead of the first ministry before, and on the basis of this public debate and the proposals made by the expert organisations to deliver the second orderly to say the bill proposal, and then that the parliamentary group, i.e. the commission, is considering this and such regulated law. So the turn wasn't right. 35 On the other hand, on the other hand, I advocated that the law be divided into three parts and that each section should be considered separately. The part about the driver, the part about the road and the part about what's left, the car. And that every time those three parts are considered, all professional organizations and all others who can contribute to the law being well done. I also suggested that, together with the law, lower, or sublegal acts, rules and regulations that are over 30. Croatia has done so, and it happens very often to us that when we pass the law, that the ministry is competent, or other sublegal acts, that law is different or that I should say reorganise it in its own way. However, in the meantime, given that this debate was being held on the committee for a long time, that we had received assurances from the Council of Ministers that sublegal acts would be put in place when they were passed, since this law could not be implemented until the next 6 months, that sublegal acts would be brought first, i.e. in the commission, and that we from the commission would be able to see it, this sublegal act, I felt that in this way the law could come to Parliament. However, I agree with the president to extend the amendment phase and that all those interested in being able to change the law to allow them the possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18900	Thank you very much. If no one hears from their colleagues anymore, I give my word to the Secretary of the Ministry of Communications. The gentleman will introduce himself to you when he comes out for the pay phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18901	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, allow me to welcome you all on behalf of the Ministry of Transport and Communications and to say something about this law. As MP one said, this law has been going on for a long time, here at the Council of Ministers, it must have been about 5-6 years, and in those 5-6 years, a lot of debate has been held on this law. I think that all the institutions that should be involved in the drafting of this law were involved and they were all giving their comments, suggestions. That's what we agreed, all those remarks about each institution had to get one of these laws. With the help of the OHR, we also benefited from four experts who hired us from Sweden, Finland, Ireland, and it seems to me that from France one where they also helped us and all of theirs to make concrete proposals that we had, here to say a good look and try to install in our law by making sure that we bring this law to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we don't bring it to Sweden, Finland and I don't know France either. So all of their suggestions, we have observed, respecting the 36 situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in the end we have received a positive opinion from the OHR that we have respected all European directives and tried to build into this law. Also, the comments from the public hearing committee is also, which seems to me to have been held in this room, also well considered and we tried to install into this law. These 100 and some amendments, which were accompanied in the pre-parliamentary debate together with the Commission, were first discussed by the Commission of the Ministry on these amendments including all the interested institutions where we proposed to the Commission that amendments be adopted, which amendments are here to be rejected and together with the Commission we agreed on here which accepts which not and which are embedded in this proposal of the law. I think we have made a good law, especially if we know that in Bosnia and Herzegovina at least 7-8 of the laws on the security of transport from entity, county law, some regulations found, and even that pre-war law that is in some to say to the counties, cantons in force. We also used all the laws of neighbouring countries in the environment, the laws of the European states, and that was the basis for making this law so that we couldn't accept that we didn't respect these European directives, I think, they were maximumly incorporated into this law. I say what I said at the beginning, making sure that we still pass this law in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that we can apply it here after half a year, that is, after a year when we bring in all the sublaws in which these issues will be discussed and some of the questions proposed by the honourable member. There's so much me to start with.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18902	Thank you. The word was requested by Dušanka Majkić, so Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18903	...as you said that you had followed the UN and White Paper Directive, I would like to ask you a concrete question - will after the adoption of the Traffic Safety Act on Roads in this Parliament the driver's license of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who have stayed abroad for more than 6 months be valid or will the citizens, as so far, have to go for an additional knowledge check? Please just answer me specifically.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18904	It was a question of a distinguished colleague. You go ahead for a pay phone, a phosphorus to the secretary or secretaries to give the Ministry a reply. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18905	When it comes to the driver's license, it means we program to pass driver's exams, which will regulate the sublegal act, we will respect all the regulations that apply in Europe and there is no reason why this driver's license could not be translated into any license in Germany tomorrow, just as Germany translates into us. So under the same, the same will be treated driver's license here to say ours in Germany and Germany with us. I can answer that much if you're satisfied.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18906	I'm not happy, it's a general one, we'll settle it under legal laws. But to be true, what Mr. Proposer is saying again, I remind you that the EU strategy, but the legal World Concentration of Driver Training, provides for four principles that I have spoken of. None of those four principles are respected. If the principles such as those introduced by the EU are not respected that you think someone will verify Bosnia and Herzegovina's driver's license for you. So, none of what's been said gives me guarantees that's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18907	Thank you, Mrs. Majkić. Sir, do you have anything to say to this?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18908	If we're going to have the same programs when we take the driving exams, it means like in Europe, as in Europe, I don't see any reason why someone doesn't accept our driver's license tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18909	Thank you very much. Who else wants to talk? Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. We move on to a statement on the law in the first reading. Prepare to vote. We're voting on the law in first reading. Vote now. Vote the law in the first reading. You've got this. - 30 for, 1 against, 4 abstentions, enough entity majority. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives adopted the proposal for a law on the basis of road traffic security in the first reading. 38 Another reading can be left for the next session. There are 21 amendments to Mr. Ćeman, two amendments to Mr. Huskić, there is an amendment to Mr. Živković. Let's have a look at these other amdnamans. Sir, you can, Mr. Miloš Jovanović, president of the Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18910	I'd ask that dom, I'd still ask Dom to make a statement about my proposal for a conclusion, although I didn't write it, but I can. So by Friday, 22 means extend the deadline for the amendment. I think it would be real, then it would seem to me that then we'd all be satisfied.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18911	Thank you very much. All right, then. Here's your call. I personally don't think we should be doing this, because for a long time this law has been discussed. An amendment has been submitted. But you decide for yourselves what you will do, will you allow the extension of the amendment phase to 22. The 27th law will be held at a second reading session, so you know. Here is a proposal from Mr Jovanović, President of the Commission for a statement. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 23 for, 9 against, 2 abstentions, there's enough. So the conclusion was adopted. So we passed the law in the first reading and we made it possible to apply the new amendment to the 22nd or, in conclusion, 22nd. Okay. After that, the Commission will sit back and process it all, right? It is the commission's task and then deliver a report to us new, that is, to deliver an updated report. Is this your responsibility to the President of the Commission? That we only know where we left off.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18912	No, no, but they don't know what the Commission would do. So they're going to amend the House and now I'm going to say we're voting on the other amendments as well as those that have come so far.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18913	Please, the Commission must search all new amendments. It's a procedure. 39 So the conclusion is, first of all, not the conclusion, but the 1. We passed the law in our first reading. 2. The House adopted a conclusion that extended the amendment phase to the 22nd, the 2nd, and 22nd. After that, the Transport Commission must sit down and give its judgment on the amendments and submit an updated report in relation to these amendments to the House and the 27th, we have this in Parliament if God considers it in the second reading. We understand each other. Thank you very much. We're going to the next item on the agenda. No one who understands will understand, I've repeated it three times, as it's called, three times. Anyone who understands will understand. Okay, Nikola. We're going to the seventh item of the Ad.7 agenda. Report by the Joint Commission of both homes on the effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Foreign Affairs Service Act Has the commission been in session? The Joint Commission's report to both of you at home. Is there a report? Where's the report? Is it divided? Please, nice. Until the report is shared to the MPs, there is no vote. Dear colleagues and colleagues in line with our work plan for today's session, I am now taking a break until 13 o'clock. At 13 o'clock we continue with, until then share this report. We will only vote on the seventh item of the agenda and after that we will discuss the relationship between the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina towards the mandate of the High Representative. I'd like to ask the services to inform the Office of the High Representative to ask the High Representative to come here to the Charliamentary Hall at 13 o'clock. Please be here five minutes before 13 o'clock so we can start work at exactly 13 o'clock. Thank you very much. 13 and 2.3 minutes I welcome and welcome the High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Pedi Eždaun, who has responded to our call and will take part in the debate on the 8th agenda. [[PAUZA]] Before we move to the 8th item of the agenda, we have a very short statement on the 7th item of the agenda, this is the Report of the Joint Commission of both homes on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Foreign Affairs. 40 You have received a report from the Commission on the alignment of the text of the Foreign Service Act. You saw the Commission adopt 11 amendments. Finally, the Joint Commission proposes both homes to the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to adopt this report and adopt the single text of the Bill on Foreign Affairs with Amendments, as adopted by the Joint Commission. Is there a need to discuss this part of the agenda? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to plead. We vote therefore on the Joint Commission Report of both homes on the effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Foreign Affairs Service Act. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 31 for, no problem, no abstentions. Enough entity majority. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina adopted the Joint Commission Report of both homes on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Foreign Affairs Service Act, which I realize is definitely adopted in this text as agreed on by the Joint Commission by the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives. Moving to the 8th point of the Ad.8. The Commission's conclusions on the foreign affairs of the House of Representatives on "The Relations of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina according to the mandate of the International Community High Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina" of my fellow Members and colleagues, I am taking the opportunity to welcome again the High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Pedi Eždaun, who is present here in this Chamber. You have received the Commission's conclusions on the foreign affairs of the House of Representatives on this subject, so the topic – Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' relations with the mandate of the High Representative of the International Community in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The College of the House of Representatives agreed the following order when it comes to this item of the agenda. First, we will be contacted by the President of the Commission for Foreign Policy of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Martin Raguž, Deputy Chairman of the House of Representatives. 41 After this, the High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Pedi Eždaun, will address the House of Representatives. After that, we will open a debate in which you will have the opportunity to state your views and to ask questions to the High Representative, and then the High Representative will read again to this House and answer questions that you may be asking. I am now giving my word to Mr Martin Raguž, President of the Foreign Policy Commission of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who prepared this report and the proposal for conclusions. Mr. Raguž, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18914	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. High Representative, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, allow me to make a brief introduction on how these conclusions happened, this timing, and how the Commission has seen this debate today. On the basis of a few initiatives, I will remind only some, it is a request from a group of MPs in the House of Representatives to discuss this important issue together with the High Representative to analyse the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to work on the strategy to get out of the existing situation, the basis of the HDZ Club's request to address the latest decisions of the High Representative on the replacement of members of the Presidency on this topic, and the SDP's proposal for a resolution on the relationship between the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina according to the mandate, the appointment of a new High Representative, and also the basis of resolutions of the relevant European Assembly, I will remind you of the Council of Europe resolution number 1284 and the European Parliament resolution that also affect the mandate and the role of the institution of the High Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the opinion of the Venice Commission organised a public debate held on 18.5th of this year and the sum of 2.6. The conclusions are ahead of you and I thank you here, therefore, everyone and Mr. Eždaun for accepting that he is taking part in this debate and that in an open and constructive debate we are looking at all aspects of the mandate of this institution and its perspective, but since it is the fact that we are on the tenth anniversary of Dejton, I think it is enough time to objectively look at both the results and the positive and negative aspects of this institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I believe that they have matured quality conditions for a serious and responsible debate and take up the position of the competent institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in this case of the House of Representatives. I had an announcement that the members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency would join us. I expect, so that in Parliament we hear 42 relevant views of all the most important institutions and try to reach one, one agreed approach to this important issue. Before I say anything about the conclusions, let me just briefly implement you through the mandate of the High Representative defined by Annex X of the Dayton Peace Agreement, with a note that this mandate is focused on the implementation of the Peace Agreement, on achieving close contacts with the parties to the signatories, on the coordination and activities of international civil organisations and agencies in Bosnia and Herzegovina with the aim of effective implementation of civilian aspects of the peace agreement, on assistance when it is considered necessary to address all the difficulties encountered in connection with implementation, participation in donor organisations meetings, through the submission of periodic reports to the UN, the EU, the United States, the Russian Federation and other interested governments and organisations, and giving guidance for the work of international political forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What I can say is that so far we have had four high representatives, the OHR is in diplomatic status and is proposed by the Steering Board of the Peace Implementation Council, and the appointment is confirmed by the UN Security Council. I will remind you only of relevant conferences concerning the mandate of the High Representative. The first one was 8 and 9. 12. at the Conference on Peace Implementation in London when the Peace Implementation Council was appointed, and certainly one of the most important events in the peace implementation process is the meeting of the Council in Bona 1997 when the High Representative was asked to use his powers, which involve the removal of public officials who violate the legal obligations and the Dayton Peace Agreement. And that when it considers it can impose key laws unless adopted by Bosnia and Herzegovina's legislative bodies. Also in this introduction, which is related to the mandate, I can say that in 2002 a restructuring structure for the coordination of the international community in Bosnia and Herzegovina was established in order to eliminate overlapping activities, and a committee of the heads of leading international agencies chaired by the High Representative as the main body for co-ordinating the international community's activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And now a very short copy of the two most significant resolutions in the role of the Office of the High Representative. The first already mentioned resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of 23.6. last year, where the Council of Europe Assembly calls on the international community to provide for a more coherent and concrete strategy for the transfer of powers and responsibilities and the gradual withdrawal of OHR, and that the part-round work and powers of the OHR are such that they are essentially the highest institution with the highest powers in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and thus, in connection with the Council of Europe's Assembly, it is considered to be in full compliance with democratic principles. The fact that OHR can make and implement decisions without having a direct responsibility for them and in that sense there is no valid legal remedy. The assembly asked the Venice Commission to establish to what extent such procedures are in line with the basic principles of the Council of Europe, especially the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. 43 And the latest, it is the European Parliament resolution of the fourth month of this year, where it is said that the Office of the High Representative is still in need of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but requires greater transparency and European parliamentary supervision regarding its activities and decisions, particularly in terms of the planned gradual transfer of its activities to the authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this context, the High Representative has been asked to refrain from extensive use of the so-called so-called. Bosnian powers, since such a way of government is an obstacle to the establishment of the rule of law in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And just another quote relating to the Venice Commission's findings where it is said that as a Member State of the Council of Europe, Bosnia and Herzegovina is responsible for the obligations to that organisation and this obligation must be met by the country i.e. Bosnia and Herzegovina, not the international community. The need to exercise broad powers existed in the earlier period, following Dejton's conclusion. Today, however, such an arrangement is fundamentally incompatible with the democratic character and sovereignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and there is a strong risk of the opposite effect in terms of creating a culture of dependence of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions on such a role and mandate of the High Representative. Here, I would consider it necessary to indicate these elements before today's debate and to say that the Commission has sought to have a balanced relationship with all these initiatives and in conclusion to make one, one condensation of all these approaches in a way that still structurally responds to the current position, the current situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the current commitments, the current reforms and the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, positive things have been considered for the roles of the High Representative from the beginning to the present day, as it is quite certain that without the OHR, many key issues for Bosnia and Herzegovina would not be raised or resolved without the OHR. It was absolutely necessary in the past and all the participants of the public debate, most actually agreed that it was still needed, but with a necessary redefinition of those powers. What I would particularly point out, and what is in some way open and through the debate on the agenda, I believe that there were no conditions in the Commission's conclusions and I appreciate what Professor Kunić said and really read the carefully item 4. Here only refers to the opinion of the Venice Commission and the European Parliament without any obligations, these are only the entry elements for one quality debate question is whether and can be a legitimate issue, without adopting a democratic constitution for Bosnia and Herzegovina transforming the position of the High Representative or leaving that position at all. That's one legitimate question. The Commission has not taken a precise position on him, it is a view for discussion and it is clear therefore and here in conclusion 6th, it is said that there is currently no single position in Bosnia and Herzegovina on the issue. So it was not to prejudge any conclusions in this regard, but rather to point out an important question in that domain. What I think is very important today is that we have the BiH Presidency here and that we have the Council of Ministers and that we have a High Representative, that we have representatives, or a reflection of political will, a political spectrum in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that this issue should not be seen in the daily political context, but a question such as 44 when we have adopted a joint statement on the European future of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think this is one of the issues that deserve to be reached by a serious political consensus to what extent, such a mandate, until such a mandate, what a redefined mandate, with which duration, which dynamics of this, that the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina will take this responsibility and I think that this conclusion is ten, in fact, a succession of these conclusions, that the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Parliament, the Council and the Presidency bring an action plan to take over the responsibility and area together with the Office of the High Representative in a partnership relationship with the fact that we will need to ensure that this institution in a redefined mandate, in a single way, and a single manner, and a single manner. I also believe that here with the right as there is an exceptional responsibility for us and individually and institutionally in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it also could not escape from the fact that for the overall situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the economic, social, as responsible and domestic institutions cannot escape the international community, given the instruments and powers and capacities that we have in the entire 10 years. This is one legitimate issue, and this is not a personal question, but an institutional issue that should also be discussed as well as a question to which certain decisions have been in conflict over the past 10 years with the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. Is there a legal remedy, until certain decisions by the High Representative in these 10 years that have been taken will be in force, which may be put out of force, if they need to be put out of force. Those are the questions for discussion. But certainly the most important question today is how to ensure that we are no longer dependent on the way and functioning of the Office of the High Representative's institutions, because this really shows up 10 years after Dejton as a key obstacle to faster and better quality work of institutions and the European pathway of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I believe that on the basis of these conclusions, we can also, based on the debate we will hear here today, based on the views of both the High Representative and the Carrier, the key holders of functions both in the Presidency and in the Council of Ministers and in Parliament, to be supplemented if necessary by these conclusions, agree on the methodology of a further relationship with the focus that really comes to an exit strategy that will be brought into line with the international community. I think these are important issues, I think a good basis was created, that time was affected, that conditions were created for one reasoned debate and that we are going further into the realisation and obligations that lie ahead of Bosnia and Herzegovina and our own priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18915	I thank Mr. Raguž. I am taking the opportunity to welcome Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency Chairman Ivo Mir Jović, ministers at the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers present. 45 I now give my word and ask that the High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Pedi Eždaun, address Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18916	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable President, the honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that with all my heart I agree with almost every word spoken by Mr. Martin Raguž, except perhaps one thing he mentioned, and I'll talk about it a little bit later. But in any case, I am extremely grateful to Mr Raguž, who sent me this call, because I think he's right when he says this is the right time to start a constructive debate on this issue, so let's start this open dialogue and thank the President who invited me to the session of Parliament as well. This isn't the first time I've been here, but it is the first time I've been in this magnificent hall. Just one thing, I want to say something about what Mr. Raguž said. He said there is no exit strategy for the international community and its departure from Bosnia and Herzegovina. The theme of my speech is also about this strategy. So it's not about the international community's exit strategy from Bosnia and Herzegovina, it's about the strategy for Bosnia and Herzegovina's entry into Euro-Atlantic integration, or the EU. And this entry strategy is actually what is most important and when you consider it, you see that the international community should no longer play such a strong role here in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I am very glad that I have the opportunity to speak again here in front of Parliament and my speech will take 30 minutes, and then I will answer questions afterwards. I hope you have patience. You invited me to talk about the Venice Commission report, and here I agree very much with some of the things that were said here. So it's a large and serious report that gives different evidence and I think I agree without exception with all the conclusions of that report, and also with the conclusions made by your foreign policy committee on this important document. The Venice Commission addressed two topics, the need for constitutional change in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the powers of the High Representative. Constitutional change is a question that is yours, not mine. Bosnia and Herzegovina must become sure that everyone now agrees and understands that Bosnia and Herzegovina must become a more functional state, so this functional change, or constitutional change, is something that must happen. However, this is a matter that must be decided by the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So the international community cannot therefore propose or provide solutions. This is a question that you need to resolve in my opinion among the international community can help you in this process, but you representatives of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina will have to come up with final solutions. 46 If you let me just maybe give you one piece of advice when it comes to this topic. Do not let these constitutional changes draw your attention now from basic questions. I'm not saying constitutional changes don't need to be discussed. We need to talk soon, but I think it's very dangerous if, therefore, if our attention were to be distracted with much more important issues, and this is the chance Bosnia and Herzegovina now has to cross this threshold and start the stabilisation and association process and sign the agreement, and to do so before the 10th anniversary of the signing of the Dayton Agreement. This is in my opinion the basic task that we must accomplish together, and this is the task on which we should concentrate and work together, excluding any issues that may distract us. The issue of constitutional reform must be resolved, but perhaps later and I think it will be much easier to resolve it in the context of the stabilisation and accession process than outside it. So my speech, in line with your demands, is actually focused on this very authority that has OHR and that it should actually change. Allow me, Mr. Chairman, to describe first and give a picture of the political challenges that this country is facing in my opinion, because these very challenges are one context within which this discussion is taking place. When I first addressed this Parliament, it was on the first day of my term of office on 27 May 2002, then I said what I believe we can accomplish together during our term in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If you remember, I have set a primary goal, which after a while is supported by all politicians in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The goal was to put the country on track towards effective statehood and a path that would lead to EU and NATO Euro-Atlantic institutions. I said that even then, even if I am not the last High Representative, I hope that we will still be able to see the end of the mandate of the Office of the High Representative and that we will be able to see that end during that period. Three years after my address, this country continues to face major challenges, not only the challenges of improving the living opportunities of hundreds of thousands of ordinary citizens who still have to fight every day to ensure themselves a dignified life. However, without regard to Bosnia and Herzegovina's island, it has made major shifts during this period. I think we have managed to secure a broad framework for the modern highly decentralised European state, which is on its way to the EU and which is on its way to NATO. Let me tell you, in this context where we're talking about these topics, what's happened over the past three years, because sometimes we lose sight of how far we've just gone. The only judicial and prosecutorial services are now in place and are working at the state level. So now we have a single judiciary that works. So we formed a state-level crime department that is able to handle the processes against the most difficult cases and those that have so far been untouchable and we have also established a war crimes department that is now able to judge and war criminals according to international standards. We've established a single customs service, and we've also established a kind of Bosnian FBI egg, or SIP. We also established 47 indirect administrations, the indirect taxation administration that will introduce VAT early next year, and already in this period there was an increase in revenue of 10% compared to the same period last year when the administration did not work for indirect taxation. We have also established a unique intelligence structure that is now operating in line with the intelligence standards in Europe and under parliamentary control. We also managed to unite the two armies, form a Bosnia and Herzegovina military force that has one defence minister and a single command. It is a historic achievement, and what was achieved yesterday in terms of defence reform has now put Bosnia and Herzegovina on this path, not only according to the Partnership for Peace, but also according to the creation of a professional NATO-style army. We also have other achievements, Mostar is becoming more and more unique and one city that has a unique statute. Bosnia and Herzegovina is increasingly becoming a unique economic space and a place where investment is far easier. The time it takes to register a company in Bosnia and Herzegovina will soon be only 10 days, the shortest period in the entire region. Three years ago that period was the longest in this region. So in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the most difficult thing was to register the company. And the results, although some do not argue, are also shown in the area of the economy, because we really see that there is growth. I'll give you some numbers. Yidips are now growing at a rate of 5.6% which is the fastest growth in the Balkans and far faster than the international community predicted. Inflation is 0.5% which is the lowest inflation rate in the Balkans. Foreign direct investment increased by 25% last year. Same thing with the same export. Industrial production grew by - last year. But we all know that Bosnia and Herzegovina still has a long way ahead of it, because its economy does not grow at a sustainable rate. Or at least not at some rate that could affect the lives of ordinary citizens. However, this growth is beginning. Also achieved is the most significant of all, true progress after a very long time in co-operation with The Hague tribunal. Eight indictees were transferred to The Hague during the first four months of this year, and compare that to the zero we've had in the last nine years. So that's something I'll come back to later on during my exposure. So, the question, Mr. Chairman, is where is Bosnia and Herzegovina now at this moment when we are approaching the 10-year anniversary of the signing of the Dayton Agreement. So what are the key priorities for the rest of the year and for the rest of my term as High Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina. As I said at the beginning one of our goals which is fundamental consists of two elements and that's something we've long established. So membership in NATO's Partnership for Peace programme and the launch of formal negotiations on a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU. So these are the two gates that we are facing and we have to cross to open the next phase of what is happening here in Bosnia and Herzegovina. As we have achieved so much, I think Bosnia and Herzegovina is now at a very low distance from these goals and their achievements. 48 Only Ratko Mladić and Radovan Karadžić are now standing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the NATO programme's Partnership for Peace. So that's the first phase Bosnia and Herzegovina has to go through to join the world's strongest military alliance. So only those two men share Bosnia and Herzegovina's goal. As for the EU, we again have two key issues that are still pending. This is the adoption of the PBS Act in accordance with the Dayton principles and with the requirements set by the European Commission. And of course another issue which, some argue, is far more difficult to reform in line with EU principles. So our primary goal, which I think is far more important now than anything else, is to remove these two remaining obstacles and do so in the next few weeks so that Bosnia and Herzegovina can track its neighbours. komesar Ren told Prime Minister Terzić and me when we met last month in Brussels that despite certain delays, there is still hope that Bosnia and Herzegovina can achieve these goals before autumn or before the 10th anniversary of the Dayton Agreement. So within the next few months when Serbia-Montenegro is due to begin its negotiations with the EU. It seems to me that it's up to us to ensure that this hope still exists and that we don't destroy it. I'm still convinced it can be accomplished. I am still convinced that, of course, depending on the decision of the Constitutional Court that we are expecting this week, the PBS Act can be adopted in time and that it can be in line with the principles of the European Commission. I am still convinced I am still optimistic despite recent delays that the issue of police reform can also be resolved if there is a good will. There are some positive indications that we recently received from the Republika Srpska government, especially during last week, and these indications are very good and encouraging and they give us reasons for optimism. I also know that this police reform is not a simple issue, but it was not a question of creating a single tax structure, a single judiciary, a unique intelligence structure, a unique defence structure, but we were successful in implementing these reforms, and I think they were worth our efforts because they bring benefits, not only to entities and the state, but also to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So now we have a few weeks, so just a few weeks to complete these tasks we've given ourselves until half of September. So a little less than 8 weeks ahead of us must agree to restructure the position if this country wants to get the green light to start Stabilisation and Association negotiations, or before the 10th anniversary of Dejton. Let me once again tell you why this deadline is so important that we keep mentioning, which is related to the Dayton Agreement. It is important because unless Bosnia and Herzegovina achieves this until this planned period, we enter into the electoral process and it will be much harder to make difficult political decisions. It is also important that this deadline is because Bosnia and Herzegovina's neighbours are not waiting for Bosnia and Herzegovina, but are already moving forward and leaving us behind. Croatia, Macedonia, Albania, Serbia-Montenegro, all are already on the road. And we're not. They won't wait for us, they won't wait for Bosnia and Herzegovina. And neither will the EU wait for Bosnia and Herzegovina. 49 If Bosnia and Herzegovina wants to win a rejection and to be the only Balkan country to win a rejection, then it can do so, but then you must understand that it puts you on waiting for your future, but not the future of the entire region that goes on. You're either them, or you'll stay behind them. So I appeal to you now not only to the parties in power, but also to the opposition parties to find a true political consensus that will not be tied only to the parties in power or to the opposition, so you should all, regardless of whether you are in a position or opposition to agree on this, this, these tasks standing before you in connection with EU accession. These are important issues, because all those countries that have been able to join the EU over the past years have therefore formed opposition parties and parties in power together and have decided that this movement towards the EU is far more important than daily political debates and Bosnia and Herzegovina must do so. But now we're going back to something I've mentioned before. So fulfilling this deadline and overcoming these basic tasks and fulfilling them is significant for this reason. Starting Stabilisation and Association negotiations will serve as a kind of trigger for processes, not only in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also as Mr Raguž said when it comes to the role of the High Representative, the role of OHR, my role and the future role of the international community in Bosnia and Herzegovina. When we cross this threshold, then the EU actually takes over that role that Dejton has played so far, and Bosnia and Herzegovina is turning into the next phase of its trip to statehood. Let me explain very briefly how I see this phase, the next stage of the withdrawal of the international community and its interventions, so that this process may take place, because you will see that it will take place far faster than you imagine. So this is how it could happen. When the Stabilisation and Association negotiations began, the PIC's Peace Implementation Council had already made it clear that it was ready to move forward quickly. And start with the process of withdrawing the OHR, my business as the Bosnian Authority which became so predominant in Bosnia and Herzegovina's political landscape after the war will therefore withdraw. The OHR could then succeed, probably want an EU-led mission, or a special representative of the EU, but without Bosnian powers. So if the threshold is crossed when Bosnia and Herzegovina is in negotiations, then the gradual process of withdrawing the transition can begin already on the 10th anniversary of Dejton, so somewhere in October, this year, and OHR could replace an EU-led mission in October 2006. So during the next elections, after the next elections, the relationship between the international community and the elected officials of Bosnia and Herzegovina would fundamentally change. Whether this will happen depends not only on whether Bosnia, Bosnia and Herzegovina will meet the conditions for negotiations, but also on what will happen from now until next year. The PIC won't pull the OHR unless it's absolutely sure it's safe. But that's the schedule they keep in mind. 50 So now it is up to you, Mr Raguž, ladies and gentlemen, that the OHR transition to the Office of the EU Special Representative could happen next year. I really hope that happens. That's what I say to the Venice Commission, that's what I say in my conversations with colleagues from the international community. It is time to do so, because I am indeed aware of how long the OHR often weakens the democratic prerogatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, including this parliament. The Venice Commission said and you said that Bosnian powers were necessary so far, and I think that's true, but the price, as we all know, was growing and more dependent on the benefits of independence, at the expense of independence. In this way, the culture of establishing a culture of responsibility has been difficult and it was also an obstacle to the establishment of civil society, so I agree, Mr. Raguž 10 years after Dejton, it is really time to face that fact and start talking about it. But let me also warn you that this will require a major adjustment from the Bosnian-Herzegovina policy, and also if my colleagues from the international community were here, I would warn them, so it is not only for the BiH authorities but also for some colleagues from the international community. Some of them have also become too used to calling for bona fide powers to avoid the sometimes complicated machine of democracy to be represented by this parliament. Because it's modern to speak against bona fide powers, but the world without bona fide powers will also demand habitation. It will be a world in which it will not be, there will be no deus ex machine to avoid some difficult decisions and political compromises in a quick way. So it's really time for us all to start preparing ourselves for this transition to a more recent international presence, a civilian presence to meet the needs of non-post-war Bosnia and Herzegovina from '95. and '96, rather than Bosnia and Herzegovina, which lies ahead of the accession of Europe and 2005. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is my message of the OHR transition to the EU Special Representative's Office could happen in about 15 months, and could never happen unless Bosnia and Herzegovina can pass that transition to the EU and NATO. Uzgrred the way, we cannot wait 15 months for the process to begin, when Bosnia and Herzegovina crosses that threshold of stabilisation and accession. There are the same things that we can start immediately with the tasks currently carried out by my office, I, the Office of the High Representative, and we could actually hand them over almost immediately outside the OHR into the hands of the democratic institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, above all to this Parliament and the Council of Ministers. In some ways this has already started to happen, contrary to some points of view, the figures are quite clear use of Bosnian powers in terms of imposing the law has fallen dramatically over the last three years and this will continue. This year, I did not impose any laws, I used bona fide powers to bring amendments and additions, and I think that happened at a concrete request from the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The number of shifts has also been significantly reduced. I only had to consider two shift decisions this year, and I honestly wish I hadn't had to make them, but in the end, I had to do it, and I don't think I had any other options. Now we're even starting to correct the shift process. In March, I began to consider the cases of those persons who have been changed in the past and five such persons are, or the decision on their shift has now been withdrawn and there will be more and I hope that these decisions will be far 51 more numerous than the decisions on the shifts that may still have to be made in the future. However, I think that we can go further, I don't think we need to stop there, there are other areas where OHR is very engaged, where OHR performs functions that could now and should, in turn, be moved into domestic hands or, in some situations where domestic mechanisms can be found. Here's an example for you, let's say, giving approval to ministerial candidates. As OHR knows, it approves candidates for key ministerial positions in governments at the state, entity and cantonal level. Nikola Špirić suggested several months ago that BiH authorities would be able to do the job and I agree with him. The parliamentary confirmation of appointments in the government is a feature of many democracies. Why wouldn't that be possible in BiH? During my term, I could see candidates with scandalous biographies who were proposed for ministerial positions for which they were clearly inappropriate. It should be your role to stop it, not mine. So I asked my office to prepare together with you a draft law that will come before you to Parliament soon, in order to initiate the process of parliamentary oversight of key executive appointments and I hope that you will consider it carefully. If such a process can be established, then the role of OHR in the authorisation process can finally be completed. Then it's a matter of legal interpretation. Many of you know that in the past few years, OHR has played a major role in interpreting the BiH Constitution. We shouldn't be doing this anymore. There is a Constitutional Court now, and that is why the Justice Ministry is currently leading a working group working on constitutional amendments that will allow BiH governments to consult with the Constitutional Court and not with the OHR when it comes to draft laws before they are passed. When this happens, the role of OHR can end. I also asked these working groups to consider the issue of judges from the international community in the state court. At present, their role is unlimited time. I am not for this and I expect amendments that will limit this mandate and it will also come before you and hope to receive your support. Then the question of draft laws. In the past few years, OHR has produced a huge number of draft laws in this country. We shouldn't be doing it either, you should be doing it. Soon more and we won't have to do it so you'll have to do it. You need to think about how you will prepare for the days when you will make draft laws, which is also normal as a democratic parliament and not a OHR and finally, there is also a delicately difficult but important issue of standards in public life. I've been focusing a lot of my attention for the last three years on that. Why? Because I think there is a desperate need to rebuild confidence in BiH politics because we need to protect BiH's international reputation to help attract investment, which is necessary for jobs. The first step was to limit the immunity of politicians done in January 2003. I think it's got broad public support. It was the right thing to do. Politicians pass laws, but they shouldn't be above the law. Now we have set the standard for those who perform high executive functions to step down from those functions when criminal charges arise. This is not 52 always accepted, including recently, by Mr. Čović. But I think that too has public support and that is something that BiH should establish in its democracy. I hope that too will receive the support of this House. If that is the case, if it receives your support, then I will give you a recommendation to consider adopting a resolution in this House that would establish such a single principle in parliamentary practice. After that, it'll be up to you, not me. So, Mr. Chairman, you see there's a lot more to be done and the sooner we get through that gate, we start negotiations and we head for Europe, the better. I tried to describe today how I see the next stage of BiH's path to greater statehood. I showed, I tried to show how important this is for both the international community and the BiH authorities. Now you need to think about it, this process may also begin with today's meeting. I made it clear that some of these issues are fundamentally important, so the sooner you really start solving them, the sooner you take those responsibilities, the better. Let me make it clear that we are only at the beginning of this process, not at the end. The ideas I've put out here are just ideas. It's no plan, and certainly no instructions. They should be the subject of a broad debate in this House and with relevant BiH institutions and governmental and non-governmental in the weeks and months ahead, as we approach the anniversary of Dejton. It's about your future and you're the only one who can decide. But now as we approach the tenth anniversary of Dejton, it is really right to focus attention on that future. What it will look like and how BiH can move from one democracy over which the tutor stands, which is the international community, towards a truly decentralised modern, sovereign democratic state in Europe. So that's the next stage of the road that opens in front of you after you pass that gate of road to Europe. Whether the next phase of transition will begin by transforming OHR into one EU-led mission next year depends primarily on whether it will start Stabilisation and Association negotiations, which means that we need to address practical issues of police restructuring by half September. But as we approach the tenth anniversary of Dejton, I think that this great historic moment when I would go that way, that this is a valuable goal that we must keep in mind. That's the goal I truly believe in, I believe it's available to us. That's the goal I intend to devote all my efforts to for the rest of this year. Mr. Chairman, I urge all of you as members of this House to do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18917	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am now opening a debate. So you have a proposal for the Commission's conclusion on the external affairs of our home. We heard a presentation by the High Representative for BiH on OHR's views on the future of the institution and on the BiH institutions' relationship with the High Representative's mandate. I think 53 is a well-detected issue here, and I think that at the same time that we are talking about the relationship between the BiH institutions' mandate and the High Representative's mandate, it would be good to talk about the law, of course, of another right actually, is the relationship between BiH institutions to Europe and Euro-Atlantic security associations and that these are two very interlinked things. I will, of course, answer something later for the discussion, not abuse the position of the chairman, I will open the debate, give you the opportunity to speak. You have the opportunity to ask, in addition to your reference to these important questions, certain questions to the High Representative who will monitor our presentations here and our debate and give answers to the questions you ask. Well, here you go, I'm opening a dispersion. Mr. Nijaz Duraković answered first. After that, Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija and Mrs. Majkić. Secretary, keep writing and you raise your hands to keep the secretary down. I ask you since there will be a lot of discussion here, I suppose, we can agree that our discussions will be circled within 5 minutes. Can we take this as a principle? So, the discussions last, if Mr. Lagumdžija agrees. I've been asked of you. And if you want to take a breath to last, we'll discuss it. I think anything that's smart can be said in five minutes. And here's what we accepted as a principle. And I'll hang up after five minutes. Sir,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18918	I would accept that, and otherwise I'm not one of those people who talks a lot, but since I have a rare opportunity to ask some questions to the esteemed Ešdaun, I might be able to extend it for a few minutes. But anyway,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18919	Well, one, two minutes is no problem. You know I'm a tolerance man. Here you go. Five minutes starts now.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18920	If I wasn't wasting my time, I'd start somewhere on his arrival in one of our magazines by making a text that read, whether BiH is a protectorate or not. And then I made a joke about the fact that Mr. Ešdaun was actually the king of Bosnia alluding that in the British system in the vast colonial empire, the main one was the crown or jewel of India, and there would always be a king of India from the royal family. And of course, the question is still being asked today, how much is the Bosnian protectorate, how much is the semi-protectorate, etc. in whose spirit and report of this Commission of Raguževa, it is in fact necessary to finally open the question to say, in the jurisdiction of both the High Representative and the institutions themselves of the system. 54 And, in that sense, the main question is whether to reduce the so-called. The Bosnian authority of the High Representative or not. You, I think, somewhere in article 4 of this report from the Commission, says that most participants supported the position of the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe, etc. that it is still too early to lift the powers of the High Representative and that the gradual weakness of his powers should run in parallel with the constitutional reform ahead in BiH. I absolutely agree with that. But that's where the key questions are opening up in my court, of course. Therefore, the amendment of the Constitution depends on the change of the Constitution depending on power, future powers of the High Representative. And the key question is that the constitutional reform that we are all talking about remains a diametrically different approach. From RS, socially, regardless of any political party, there is no question of any change, as they say Dejton. Dejton is treated as a Bible as a dick, as a sacred letter, etc. And they all ascend to eliminate any more radical change in the Constitution. Yes, call the Croatian option is something more flexible, it is for constitutional changes but with some different connotations and omens, you imply in many options in this variant, it is actually looking for a three-part division and with the subtext is whether, in the Federation like that, the pandan entity is simply the Hrvat in a subordinate plate and that the analogue formation of RS might be able to reconfigure the idea of forming some hercegbo and so on. Of course, there is also an idea of all the cantonisation of BiH that is good, and in my court it would be worth thinking about, let's say, the type, the Swiss arrangement. But, of course conditionally speaking, there is also this Bosniak option that is always for some kind of decentralisation, naturally it implies the abolition of RS but naturally, then the Federation itself. So, one of the many decentralisations of BiH on the principle of any cantonisation, any of the highly developed local self-governments. And, on top of that, I don't want to count it. So there are a series of different options and suggestions, but what matters is that it is absolutely unrealistic to expect that by some consensus, some democratic procedure we will agree that we are going into constitutional changes, because I am convinced that time will show that there is no will from the RS for any more serious change. They are, however, to preserve the status quo, to preserve RS prerogatives, etc. The counter option is very drastic, she says that RS is a genocide based on crime and genocide, that the Republic of BiH has been abolished and the RS is formed and that this one simply doesn't make sense to reward the crime in a way that we have the system first, which is the most complicated political system in the world. That's what every expert in the world says. Secondly, we have the most expensive political system in the world. Malta doesn't feel like we're the economy of Japan. Third, we have the most inefficient system in the world. Fourthly, we have a political system that includes elements of blockade and obstruction. So the system in which these infallible solutions are constitutional-legal solutions is thus blocking itself and there is always the possibility that one of the three constituent nations declares everything and remembers the blavana, declares it a vital national interest. We have therefore, a system where they interfere, intertwining the powers of the High 55 representatives and the institutions of this system, namely this Parliament itself, of the state Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18921	It's been five minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18922	Here, just two more things. I'd like to ask the High Representative two specific questions. First, he said in his statement whether a democratic constitution could be adopted. On occasion, you must do it yourself. And that's what they've been telling us since Clinton's speech at the theater, then Tuzla, etc. Bog can't help you if you don't help yourself. We can't do it ourselves, obviously, and we can't fool ourselves. And, BiH cannot be punished forever for 10 years, says you cannot enter Europe because you have not arrested Karadžić and Mladić. Hundreds of NATO troops and various forces, UMPROFOR, ESFOR, AIFOR, EUFOR, etc. have passed here. So they drive us crazy. And why they didn't arrest him, they always knew where they were, etc. Obviously, if this is the way you're gonna do it, then we're gonna go to Europe. So that's one kind of thing I'd say is a hypocrite of his own demagogy and a wash of his own cheek. Washing the interests of Europeans, above all force, including America, etc. I'll make a joke. BiH is an abortion of the seventh policy of Europe and America, and enough is enough, you have to do it yourself. No, that's what they have to do, because they put us in this position. Confessed to us, sent us, imposed on us one crazy constitution and then said, you have to do it yourself. In this political system, no parliament, no political option is simply powerful to get out of this coloplet, from this Vordi knot, etc. And secondly, it's always said, you have to go to NATO, so I can ask a real question like that. What's Bosnia doing in NATO? Exhausted, poor, in charge, poor, etc. with both NATO and European troops here. How much will it cost us to join that NATO? And why join NATO in the first place? So NATO's alliance will do what? The Atlantic defense alliance against the Soviet danger, and the dangers are no more, it is expanding further as the only military alliance in the world. Why not go to an option to declare some kind of neutrality or demilitarisation of this part of the Balkans along with neighbouring countries of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro? Itd. I don't know if it's really about the head that we have to go to that NATO and how much it cost? And the second question, and I'm going to end it, and we're talking about everything, police reform is a condition, defence reform is a condition, entering the Partnership for Peace is a condition, entering, never and never for 10 years to tell us anything about development programs once, how to get this economy out of the collapse, how to overcome this robbery because Bosnia is what's left of it still robbing from so-called. an international factor. I don't want to make examples. From Telekom to Aluminium, etc. A few years ago, while Petrić was, Telekom wanted to buy BH for 2.5 million dollars, marks. 2.5 million marks, later declared to be 600 million, etc. That's how it's usually done. Take what's still alive in this country, without any responsibility 56, etc. So let's give more, enough more and the police and this, it's all right, it's all very important, it's about judicial reform, it's about police reform, defense, especially, let's see how development programs do, how to hire half a million young people who simply dream of a map to America and Australia, etc. and that flees from this country. Well, that would be my particular question. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18923	Thank you very much. It's been 10 minutes. So I'd be begging to move within five minutes. Please, I'll put it this way exactly as anyone was saying, five minutes is a deal to know, I won't interrupt, I don't have the right to do business. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, please. Have Mr. Sead Avdić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18924	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to admit, I didn't expect you to begin by replicating the High Representative with a statement that in five minutes you could say anything smartly, yet the man talked for 30 minutes and, uh, I really think that was very good.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18925	You could be a little more polite, Mr. Lagumdžija, when you speak to this House. The High Representative in agreement with me said that his exposure was 30 minutes and I was talking about our colleague's discussions. Only so much, and I ask you to be a little more polite in Parliament and now proceed.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18926	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Anyway, I think this is a good time to talk about this compared to some moment that would come after this day. This is the wrong moment compared to yesterday, the time we lost that we didn't have before. It's a shame we didn't talk about this earlier. I have to admit that I'm an ordinary citizen uninformed, I'd be encouraged by what I've heard here. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that for these same speakers three weeks ago from the chairman of the Council of Ministers, otherwise the favorite High Representative, we heard quite different data about the country's economic success. At the time, we heard not that BiH has the largest GDP growth in the region, but that of us, there is more growth in social products and Bulgaria and Albania and Romania and Serbia-Montenegro, that we have bigger than Croatia and Macedonia, slide number 7 for the uninformed. We also heard from him that companies here in BiH are registered in 48.6 days, and that 57 regional average is 42 days... 25 days, and now we hear it's 10, which I'm afraid is not true. I don't think there's any need to fool ourselves and close our eyes in front of the fact that this country is still in front of a kind of economic recession, and all the indicators are talking about it, which you can't tell anyone about within five minutes, especially those who don't want to hear it. I must admit that, I agree with the High Representative that a lot has been done, that here is stabilised, and I don't know if I'm okay, maybe I haven't followed the translation, and hopefully, I really think it's a great success, which in the last three years since he came here, that this country has really been put on an unconstitutional path towards its European statehood. I think we're already on that course. The other thing is, that course is you, it's not going as fast as we'd like. But, let's not kid ourselves, today this is more of a country than it was three years ago, and it's gotta be admitted. And she was more put on the path to European statehood, she's more on that path than she was here two or three years ago. And that doesn't have to be ignored. But I don't think it's gonna help if all the things that aren't good are turned into good things because it doesn't help us keep going any faster on that path. I really belong to people who thought today, and here's this document of Business and Justice, this here, three years ago we got this and three years ago, this document was an election document of the outgoing authorities, this is a document on which this coalition, business and justice was formed. I think we should use these High Representatives while he's still here to tell us why this job and justice isn't realised and what are the real problems why it didn't work out? I'll give you an example, a paper job and justice says that by 2004, we'll be opening up 60,000 new jobs. Let me remind you, that's what our favorite prime minister, or your favorite prime minister, told us that in these three years instead of the new 60,000 jobs, we have fewer 6,000 employees, and 46,000 more unemployed. Also, why I say, this is one example, why it is not established by the end of 2003, as it stands here in the promise, number 5, pardon the promise of the 4th in the domain of justice, that appropriate institutions will be formed to take away the property. And to tell us quite clearly here, why the negotiations didn't begin on the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Treaty because it was promise number three from the domain of business. And it was supposed to be done as it was written here by the end of 2004. We should look ourselves in the eye and see what it is, what is the reason why Serbia has been groping and Montenegro has been groping in the place this 3 years, why has it gone past us? Why three years ago, we lobbyed for them to enter the Council of Europe and today they are practically on the verge of signing the Stabilisation, Pedding of the Stabilisation and Association Treaty. And, not to spoil this idyll, I'll try to ask two questions in five minutes. So my first question is, it would be good for the rest of us to stay here, to help us and to be told, why didn't this work out? Why? What are the real 58 reasons? Can reforms be implemented without reformers? Is it enough to give someone a license, is it enough to write on the plane that the truck is, and then ride the armature around the meadows with it? The plane's a plane, the truck's a truck. You can't make something into something that isn't with a sticker. What's that? Help us. Before you go, don't tell us as your predecessors what we should have done when you leave. Nor can you do to us what you can, nor can we do to you. We'll stay here, I invite you to tell us before you leave, maybe today's the right time, maybe some other time, to hear, to complete what we've asked, so you can tell us before you leave, what do you recommend? There's nothing we can do for you, we can't even do for those who are gone. They could do more, because they can't change us and you can. So let's see how we can speed up that path. And the second question, that is the conclusion, I support these conclusions of the Commission, which Martin very nicely presented, in particular the conclusion of number 2 of the Commission which is practically the conclusion, point 3 of our resolution. Look, here in this conclusion, it says literally here, I fully agree with it, I think it is good, that the participants of the public debate have reached full agreement on the opening of a process in which the BiH institutions should become an equal partner, both in mandatory appointment consultations and in the very nature of the High Representative's mandate. They concluded that any definition of the future and this high representative cannot be resolved without partner relations in BiH's notifications, it is the presidency and the Council ofminitors. It's not this Parliament. The resolution also explicitly states, in other words, that the Presidency and the Council of Ministers should give their agreement not only on the appointments of this president and the possible change of his mandate which can only be in the function of the further process of integration of the European and security structure. Look, my question to the High Representative, if we conclude this, if we conclude this, then what does the Presidency and the Council of Ministers need, should the Council of Ministers and the Presidency come out with their position? What does that mean? With its precise position on the new mandate of the High Representative,... the transition towards the EU negotiator and my answer is if the Presidency and the Council of Ministers cannot give their position, and if the existing mechanisms do not allow them to give their position and their agreement to... High Representative, isn't that actually proof that we can't do it without the High Representative? So this is a very big and serious question. Does Mr. High Representative's findings make sense to this commission? Here, specifically this conclusion. Can Mr Jović now go to his colleagues in the presidency and say, we now need to bring in the proper document, to call the Council of Ministers, we will now do exactly what we think, how we should modify the role of the High Representative. If they can do it, then we can stay in perspective without the High Representative a little faster. If they can't do it, what does that mean? I think that's one serious question that should be asked here in front of all of us. And in the end, I meant to speak in general, but I only answered that in very mild form. Those who know me, even the High Representative, know that I was much lighter 59 than it was natural and what would be normal and normal. But you have no right to give the opposition a lecture like you said here, there's nothing, there's a good majority, the ruling majority hasn't made police reform, period. We were all, they didn't make it. Špirić, you, as President of Parliament, have initiated your time to sign whether, when we are told, let all political parties come to sign, one resolution, a declaration, a charter that will stand behind the European party, and we have done so. The leaders of all political parties came and did so. And where we are, don't look for guilt in the one where she's not. Reformers are responsible for reforms and false reformers are responsible for the failure of their own illusions. I have no intention of being an accomplice to what is neither my duty nor my mandate, and this was not a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18927	Thank you, 10 minutes. Mr. Sead Avdić. Let Mrs Dušanka Majkić prepare herself. Then you are, sir, here I am reading how the secretary, as it is written when you raise your hands, will be given. Please be nice, you'll get the word I said. Mr. Sead Avdić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18928	Fellow Members and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, Mr. High Representative, clearly stems from your speech an assessment that still stands today that BiH is a country of limited and political and economic sovereignty. That's one thing. Secondly, that BiH is in a dramatic socio-economic state, which means, a mild situation,... cannot be assessed favorably. And in that context, there are a few fundamental questions as to how we came into this situation. I remember three years ago, I was one of the hosts of your presence in Parliament in an in-house speech in the BiH Parliament, and then we agreed to establish an integrated, partner relationship with the BiH authorities. So, with the BH Parliament, the Council of Ministers, etc. There is a feeling that guilt lies on both sides because partner relations have not been established to date, especially with the BiH Parliament. And for reasons of Parliament's guilt because he didn't have enough initiative or simply an idea to achieve integrated co-operation, and on the other hand on the part of the OHR. Which means that the judiciary of partnership is objectively leading us to this situation as well. The illustrations work, a year ago 15 MPs asked for a meeting with the High Representative. It was only after a year that we realized this meeting with Mr. Ešdaun here today and so a few months before he left. Which means it best shows the paradigm and way of behaviour and communication with the legal institute of power according to the Dayton Agreement, such as the institution of the High Representative, which is a key institution of making, I would say, generating and making decisions in BiH. That's one thing. 60 Secondly, what needs to be pointed out is that we cannot be satisfied with BiH's dynamics or BiH's involvement or BiH's involvement in the European community. There is no state in the Western Balkans, in Southeast Europe, which needs full membership than it is BiH. I know, you're gonna say we didn't meet the conditions, the White Paper, the 65,000 regulations, etc. formal legal reasons, but believe me, admission to the European community has a lot of what they call political reasons, economic reasons, besides formal-legal reasons. If I just mention the inclusion of Cyprus, simply one part of that island of a people in full membership of the European community, proves the justification of my thinking. So, dynamics and urgent simple inclusion of BiH into full membership of the European community. Why? Because BiH is not a state that has the same status as other countries. There's a well-involved European community here, so one thing. The European Security Force, the OSC and all other institutions, which means enough to suggest that the international community must also be interested, integratedly interested as soon as possible, making BiH's entry into full membership of the European community faster. You can imagine what the effects would be if BiH were in the European community. Only 3.5 million people live here. The European Community today accounts for 450 million inhabitants. And what do you think, so that if these 3.5 million people were thinking about the European community, it wouldn't be a problem for the European community. So I assure you that as soon as possible, in principle now and immediately, BiH is in the European community. It means the ultimate simple b... a resolutional variant that simply conditionalally relaxes in full terms a number of political and economic problems in this country. But first of all, political problems. Since the reform of the Constitution, etc. That's below two. Under three, I think we need to establish and OHR be interested in creating an exit strategy for the international community in BiH. As we have a strategy for joining the European community, so we should have the same strategy, an exit strategy for leaving OHR from these areas. Which means, by celebrating normally, the powers of the Bosnian authorities and everything else, simply strengthen the responsibilities of BiH institutions. That's below three. Under four, it would be good for this country to have a single timetable, a plan for its future when it can expect the signing of a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, when it can begin negotiations, when it is expected to be seen in the European community, in line with the dynamics that have been drawn up, etc. So we don't have this ship called BiH, it doesn't have a simple perspective or project its closer to the future, let alone the future. Which means I repeat it again, the joint responsibility of both the OHR and the BiH authorities. So, if that's 2015, as some predict, BiH's accession to the European Community, then we should face the citizens and peoples of BiH with such a single fact. And in the end, you didn't say anything about a visa-free regime, this country is blocked, citizens blocked, the most difficult visa regime that exists in this part of the Balkans, or, in this part of Europe. This has been applied to BiH citizens, which means the visa-free regime is being set 61 as an imperative of a simple targeted policy and of OHR and domestic government institutions, means to facilitate the simple flow of people and the ability to communicate this state. Here, finally to say that I was one of those who spoke of OHR had made its full contribution to the country of BIH as well as the High Representative, the Bosnian powers served well in terms of overcoming certain blockades and the functioning of this country but objectively, more partnership relations, more joint co-operation on a joint project called BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18929	Thank you, seven minutes. Mrs. Majkić, may Mr. Tihomir Gligorić be prepared, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18930	Dear Chairman, respected members of the Council of Ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, allow me to read the 3 points of the Foreign Affairs Commission's conclusion. One view says the outside Commission of the Council of Europe is supported in the fact that it is still too early to remove the High Representative's powers. Another view says that there are several cases where the Office of the High Representative has overstepped his powers, thus insinuating human rights. And, a third view says the OHR, also has to bear part of its responsibility for the difficult economic and social situation in BiH and the Euro-Atlantic integration process, given the instruments and capacities at its disposal. Those are indisputable facts. It is known that the High Representative in BiH has passed many laws, has implemented an amendment to a significant number of existing ones and has even gone so far as to introduce amendments to the entity law constitution. It is also known that a large number of sanctions have been imposed on blocked accounts, shifts of officials and many other penalties. You also know that many citizens of this country find it very difficult for a stranger who does not have a mandate to pass or declare the laws of this country next to the elected authorities, who are scheduled to do the job. He could also, at his own discretion, only initially resolve elected officials, without any responsibility for the citizens of this country and for such decisions there was no real appeal. That's what different opinions are heard about. The High Representative is not an independent judge and has no democratic legitimacy for most of his decisions. There are a number of questions that someone in this country would have to answer. Anyone who can judge whether certain sanctions are proportionate to the work done and whether a solution done may be valid indefinitely. The next question, how and under what conditions is rehabilitation of persons resolved? Like many, I believe that the role of the High Representative should be transformed as soon as 62, as a special representative for the EU, as a mediator for European integration. So, partner to BiH institutions. But that's where the key question comes in. And that's who in this country the High Representative gives his authority to. I did not hear that response in a speech by the High Representative, in which the BiH institution trusts him. Is Parliament the way it is, the Council of Ministers deserves to get those high powers at this point. There is another great inexcusable sin of the High Representative who will never forgive the citizens of this country. It was the last chance to fulfill, to fulfill his mission with dignity and return to his country. It was the 2002 General Elections, when it allowed BiH authorities to re-shape three nationalist parties. So he becomes the fourth to be responsible for that part. Since then, on the political scene of this country, international crises have re-emerged, the economy has accelerated its downhill walk, the executive government is acting on principle now has me, now I'm gone. Prove that it is not so, I mean, I see by your smiles that you disagree but I and now really do not know whether the Council of Ministers is working or not, Parliament is making certain decisions and laws but those decisions that it does not make and the laws it does not declare, it expects the High Representative to do so. As BiH moves its mice towards the European future, while the country's citizens sink into poverty and hopelessness, in a country in which no one sees a crisis leading a normal life crisis, the High Representative says reforms are successful and we have a successful Council of Ministers chairman. I can't believe that neither the catastrophic economy nor the terrible corruption, the international mistrust, the inability to have the governing set of arrangements, that they're not enough, that the High Representative sees what this looks like. Mr. Ešdaun, I'm sorry you didn't recognize that, and I'm sorry you didn't recognize the irresponsibility towards the citizens of this country and the inability to change anything for the better. Therefore, they will forgive you citizens of this country for failing to keep your promises, promising us justice and work. It'll forgive you. Because even though there's never been less justice in this country and never less work. But the citizens of this country will never forgive you for the stolen time and the charred illusion that BiH will ever become a normal country. That pensioners will be able to live off their work, that young people who are now standing in front of foreign embassies will go to their jobs. In the end, the rules of a good host require that we thank you. Thank you for everything you've done for Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I still have a feeling of bitterness and belief that this country didn't deserve 10 years after the war to be the last one on the steps of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18931	It was between seven and eight minutes. Of course, precise, of course everything is accurate. Mr. Tihomir Gligorić, let Mr. Miloš Jovanović prepare himself. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18932	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, your Excellency, Mr. Jović, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues, dear guests, even though this goes to the expense of my time, courtesy requires me to do so, but I think I will honor this time at my disposal. Today's agenda has a double situation. First, we have a report from our foreign affairs commission, and within that, and the address of Mr Ešdaun, so many open questions have opened up, and it's really hard to say, in these few minutes. Well, I will go in this order, given that I was one of the signatories of the initiative a year ago, that it would be good for the High Representative, Mr Ešdaun, to address this parliament, given that he did so on several occasions according to his own needs, but at the same time, the need for us to call on Mr Ešdaun and raise some questions in the Bosnian-Herzegovina society. And we're here today and that kind of coordination would be good. Here he would even criticise a little of the executive power, given that the greater co-operation of OHR and the executive authorities, which can partly be normal but should not be ignored by Parliament, since we are ultimately passing laws and that above Parliament is the one who is a believer, there is only Bog. There is even in some way that the impotence towards Parliament both from the executive authority and from the meaning of the OHR is noticeable, that is how my colleagues talk. They may not say it publicly, but it should not really stand, but each one within its institutions should give jurisdiction, each institution should be respected and be on the other side in office. As for the Commission's Foreign Affairs Report, and the procedure that it has been going through, I think and recommended colleagues mean to MPs and Mr. President Raguž, that it would be good, that what we talked about this morning at the Expansive College, that after the debate that will be here today, and also I think that the presidency would be good if the presidency were also in the complete composition, given that it is leading to foreign policy, we have certainly a foreign or foreign minister here, but all these remarks or suggestions, the proposals would be welcome to return to the Commission again, because I believe that there are some findings that cannot go through and would not ultimately pass this report in this Parliament, and this is not our goal, because here in point four states that the gradual weakness means power in Croatia is whether, the High Representative should go parallel with the constitutional reforms that are ahead in BiH. Mr. Duraković was already saying something about how things are going, and we're not going to agree on it in the next maybe who knows how many years. Then the High Representative stays in BiH, if such a kind of relationship is made and I don't think such a formulation should be left behind in this conclusion. But let's leave if you agree, it's a commission to grind it out, as we've done before, we won't waste any time and we'll get a good report that we can finally accept. And, in the end, I'd like to ask two questions to Mr. Eždaun, given that we have such a possibility. 64 My is the first bird, according to the Bureau's Decision on the appointment of the perpetrators or, as they have said, the auditor of BiH. Since the predstavnički of Representatives has reached the conclusion that amendments and amendments to the law should be made, while they remain acting as law enforcement officers until amendments to the law are passed, however, we have come to the situation that the Presidency, as an executive authority, does not respect the conclusion of this Parliament or the Constitutional and Legal Commission that interpreted it, and we have come to the situation that Parliament needs to confirm the appointment of the new two audit men. You, Mr. Eždaun, have called these men knights of democracy. Today these people are being targeted, simply from that institution. I am particularly concerned because in 2005 and 2006, as an election year, it has been possible for people who are party-determined and brought in by people to cover the public sector to finance the existing government's campaign in BiH. What do you think about that, and I think that you can and should use it, given that the Presidency is leading a policy that is incorrect and I know that they celebrated that night when they named these people and said that we took the burden off of ourselves, because you know that they were also called and said, "I don't know, Mr. Eždaun, do you know what the word "we hit their pedal" means in BiH? If we let such people who had the courage to do it independently, and Parliament protected them in that or allowed them to do it, today people suffer, what will other brave and honest people in BiH do, what is this message? And second question, what do you think of the anti-dayton statements? You have been given the authority of the international community and you have a legal obligation to behave in BiH. The legal obligation requires respect for the Dayton Peace Agreement. From Mr. Sulejman Tihić to go, and beyond that, everyone from the Federation can make a mistake in the sense that the RS needs to be abolished. And now to speak here, according to Mr Duraković, it may be whether, or the other three federal units, what do you think or what you should have done to cause political stabilisation in BiH if it has already been achieved, it remains, not destabilised because a message to one people, as it has been said, is causing real destabilisation, is causing a stressful situation, is causing a crisis, and is preventing further reforms in terms of load confidence to do something useful in BiH, that it is comfortable and pleasant for everyone. And this is what I'm gonna end up with. Mr. Duraković admitted, in fact, now that Bošnjak have been pushed into a tragic Suko, that I am expressing myself in Dayton, and now they are considered abandoned and deceived. Because there's only one single view from the Federation and how they think the issue is solved. Every other question is out of the question. However, we live in BiH together and together we need to look for a solution and we don't need Dejton ii as Mr. Duraković is calling for someone on the side to bring back someone's favorites to be rewarded again. And, quite in the end, since the question has been asked multiple times is whether the gentleman in this case the High Representative or whether it will be with Mr. 65 Eždaun at the end, we don't know, will have to transfer the authority and everyone's worried about who. I think we should go to the opposition and, of course, we're coming, without the difference between Mr. Eždaun and you ruling nationalists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18933	Okay, thank you, 9 minutes, Mr. Gligorić, I mean it really doesn't have this one, you have the right to a replica, please, very briefly, Mr. Duraković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18934	It's short, Mr. Gligorić. I wasn't talking about any Dejton II.. I'm surprised by you as an old politician that you don't even know what Dejton means. In fact, it's a Paris Peace Agreement that has the power of an international conference. And solutions cannot be changed without a new conference but can be changed so-called The Dayton Constitution, which in its own preamble, has a way of changing. Why not bring amendments to that constitution in every normal country in the world. He's not a sacred letter and he's not immutable. I was talking about it, not going to some Dayton II.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18935	Okay. Mr Miloš Jovanović has his word. Have Mr. Selim Bešlagić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18936	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, you should have told us that we all have the right to a replica, then perhaps some discussions would have been concretely replicated by me, but here, this time, I think that, already if we agreed on how to work, then you should not have given the right to a replica of anyone. I assume you all remember that at the beginning of this term, which was in the beginning of 2002, that Serbian MPs left the first session of this house for the reason that the High Representative imposed amendments and additions to the Council of Ministers Act. Unfortunately, we didn't have the support to tell others or other two peoples, because if we had acted differently then maybe we wouldn't have come into a situation to discuss this agenda point today. So our wish was to preserve the dignity of this home and preserve the dignity of the MPs sitting here, and also to take responsibility for ourselves by making laws and decisions, to make these laws and decisions, not to give someone else on behalf of us. Power and strength, and in the extreme case of the High Representative's authority, the Serbian Democratic Party and its members felt the most on their backs. I have to blame you colleagues, that when all this happened to us, we didn't have any support on your part. Unfortunately, there are those who have been liquefied here, who have been glad to have all of this happening to us, but here, when it happens to others, then this one, we're discussing it, then 66 we get to this point of the agenda, and I don't think that in the future we should ever have to say anything, like anyone else, because you never know what's going to happen to anyone else. I'd like here to mean besides that part of the responsibility, I say for imposing laws, for changing people, for bearing a High Representative, we're largely guilty of that, too. We've been from this room, from this pay phone, calling on the High Representative to impose some laws and make some decisions. So we did our own self-determination. Also, me and that might be my question, I'm sure, I don't know if the High Representative will answer, that people have come from here, too, when I say from here, I mean all of BiH, to the High Representative to ask them to relieve certain people because for whatever or various reasons, they don't respond, they bother, and I say, I repeat, that we also carry a certain part of the responsibility for what's happening to us and what people are replacing us. I'd like to be honest, I know that this, that High Representative will probably deny it, but I know for sure that certain people went to him to ask some people to turn away, to make it easier for them to do something and bring it. And, in short, I thought I'd talk a little bit longer, but I think maybe we're a little bit off topic, really if we want BiH to be a permanent category, that it has a future, that all its constituent peoples, and the rest of them are satisfied, I don't think it's good, that it's not good that we impose something on each other, and it's particularly bad that the High Representative imposes it on us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18937	Thank you. It was less than five minutes. Mr. Selim Bešlagić, and after that, I'll take the floor, if I may, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18938	I'm gonna make a little joke. I thank the High Representative for finally seeing some ministers here in the O.R. because I thought they were gone. Well, I thank you for coming and pulling them. And on the other hand, I'm going to ask two short questions. The other day, Mr Henfris said after talks in Banja Luka that the capture of Karadžić and Mladić would not be a condition for BiH's EU accession talks. Well, I'm interested in whether it's his position, whether it's a position in agreement with you or simply here, one statement that seems to be in college or if so, then we should know well, because you mentioned exactly two attitudes, one Karadžić and Mladić, and then the PBS Act and the Police Reform Act. 67 And the other thing, I was a member of the Subcommittee on the question of decertified police officers. We have found that, in the detercification of these officers, a lot of human rights violations have been committed in which the representative, the High Representative, has, in part, been responsible and after showing up from one video, I must say that the RS police have taken one action to catch or bring in 13 certified police officers who later proved that about 10 of them were involved in the very participation of genocides in Srebrenica. There's a question here. Is it possible, according to the Commission's register of de-determined police officers, that if the High Representative had gotten that material to try to correct one of the particular injustices, and that means really, here in this we have proved that the certification of police officers was wrong, but it landed on police officers who were really both in the RS and in the Federation had almost the highest grades. Police officers who didn't commit any violations, and that in fact there were certified police officers in the police department, here's what the RS police caught after the footage was shown. In that sense, I would ask that something be done because I think it's one thing that would certainly contribute to the reputation and the High Representative on this issue being turned from one negative to one positive twist.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18939	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. So, therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues, the High Representative has other obligations and can remain here for another 30 minutes. We have registered, as I am still Mr. Kunić, Mr. Moranjkić, Mrs. Ljilja and Mrs. Ruža Sopta. I would also ask Mr. Filip Andrić and Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, Mrs. Sead Palavrć, who has more? Ma'am, I'm begging you here for 2-3 minutes, a few thoughts to say. If we can make a deal, I'll interrupt after three minutes so we can all say something and have the High Representative talk again. We can continue the debate later.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18940	Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18941	So, respecting these suggestions that I've recommended to all my colleagues, I'm going to try so as briefly as possible. Firstly, I fully agree with the High Representative's statement that the outward passion of the international community from BiH can actually be otherwise formulated, which is actually the issue of BiH's entry strategy into the EU and NATO alliance, because for me, BiH's progress towards the European institutions and NATO alliance as the Euro-Atlantic Security Alliance will weaken the need for the international community to be present in this form and in this form in BiH. 68 And, another thing that is also causally related to the international community's presence in BiH for me, is the issue of establishing BiH as a functional and efficient state that can function without international mechanisms and between the rest and the Office of the High Representative and the High Representative. So, things are the most up to us here in the Prlament of BiH and in the institutions of the BiH government. For me, this is an evolutionary path, between 2000 and 2002, this parliament passed 60 laws and the previous 25 imposed by the High Representative. In the period 2002 to 2004, I have data so collected, 120 laws were passed, and capital laws for this country were passed and only 5 or 6 laws had previously been imposed by the High Representative and the Bologna powers were equally met from 2000 to 2002 and from 2002 to 2004. It is up to us here in BiH so that we will realize that our country needs to become a credible EU candidate as soon as possible and meet the conditions for NATO alliance and, of course, when we realize all people in BiH that the sooner we establish the country as functional and efficient, the sooner we will not need an international community in BiH. And, in the end, the report. I support this report as a good basis for drawing conclusions, as a good basis for drawing conclusions. I'd like to ask that this report be released in certain individual cases, such reports should not contain individual cases, and I don't think it's a good idea for such reports to have such individual cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18942	I thank Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18943	Okay, here, I'm not going to replicate. Read the report. Next, he answered the word Mr. Kunić. Let Mr. Moranjkić prepare himself. Here, try as quickly as I do.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18944	I thank the chairman. I welcome this High Representative activity that appeared in the House of Representatives in the BiH Parliament. I think there should have been more co-operation between the OHR and the Parliamentary Assembly in the past. I think it's one flaw that probably led to some dysfunctions that we could have avoided. It is difficult in such a short time to say something more constructive, given that this is really about the relationship of the High Representative of Parliament, about the relationship of the High Representative to the BiH institutions. But I'd say next. I think there were positive sides, positive moves. But there were some moves that were rash, which weren't necessary. In particular, this applies to the adoption of legal provisions. I don't think it was necessary to bring legal regulations by the High Representative, of course, that we can't say that Mr. Eždaun started it. It was started by Mr. Petrić who made 40 decisions in one day in two days. So he's a record player. There's no way Mr. Eždaun could have done it. 69 So, Mr. Eždaun continued to, of course, think he really balanced relations when it comes to law-making although I never, I never legally agreed that the High Representative was authorized to pass the law, because the Bonaan Declaration does not give him the right to do so. I am taking the opportunity to say it here, because I was saying it in Parliament, I am taking the opportunity because Mr. Eždaun is here, there he is authorised, or the High Pessor is authorized to make decisions of a temporary character and to deliver these decisions to the Presidency or the Council of Ministers for Verification. It doesn't stand anywhere to pass laws, to deliver acts to Parliament. Therefore, it is derived from this that the High Representative, at least from my interpretation and I have never heard from the OHR that anyone has denied my thesis. Therefore, it follows that the High Representative is not authorised to pass laws. That's my point and you know I've been talking here all the time. Astonishing, the reactions of some of the debaters in this House are astounding. Imagine when you prejudge ahead, we can't bring changes to the Constitution. When you say that, you handle an exclusive position. So that's Mr. Eždaun said you should avoid a culture of addiction, but this is a culture of exclusion. So we have been working to eliminate the culture of exclusion, and it is present both in this parliament and in BiH institutions. Therefore, in order to reach a compromise and without compromise, this parliament or other institutions will not be able to work, we will have to respect each other's interests absolutely. That's inevitable. I must say, as far as I can see, the termology, the EU's principle of police reform, has changed. The EU principle, previously spoken, needs to reach a consensus on police reform. Please, when a consensus is to be reached, then we have a different solution. Different solutions. I haven't noticed that the OHR in Brussels balances this relationship, but I haven't heard from OHR that it's wanted.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18945	You're finishing up, Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18946	Apply a model that accepts all sides. There's no way one side can set its own terms and there's no other alternative solution. So, I suggest, I said that in Parliament before the debate on police reform began to try to find consensus on this line because it seems to me that the principle of exclusion represented by one side will not bear fruit. Here, that's what I was going to say, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18947	Thank you. Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić, please welcome Mr. Moranjkić, Mrs. Ljilja Milićević, please prepare yourself. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18948	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. High Representative, gentlemen from the Council of Ministers, fellow MPs, I think we're a little off the agenda. On ten conclusions, I have seven remarks that I'm not going to make right now because I'm going to switch to a colossum that keeps going all this time. A visa of complex condition in this country, which unfortunately still lasts, probably not as intense as it was a year or two or more ago, me and my option, we give full support to you, Mr. High Representative, we think you're one of the more agile that you've come from these four. But we think that you did as you did, that you took advantage of that real name high representative, so it's probably from the height and did some things because we were dropped at the base, and that's what you're finally hearing on several occasions and that far more effects would be, that we shared some things here. Good chairman, I'll remember that. We think that sometimes it's been waiting a long time for you to intervene on something that's been dropping out of the hands of the situation, and then they were probably more tense than they were supposed to be and that's what's going on with us in the amannet as part of what we haven't done here. We feel the same way that without yours, another time here, I have to make a point, I don't think there's a lot of things we could do. At the same time, we believe that you, Mr. High Representative, are aware that our failures are both your failures and vice versa, are yours and ours when it comes to our reality. What I'd like to ask you is this, what do you think Mr. High Representative has done in your current term, and you've planned and maybe you should have done according to this vast nomenclature, a list of whatever contracts, etc. global, European, etc. I think you didn't do it on purpose, did what you didn't do affect our current status in Europe? Do you have any criticism of yourself if you came here instead of me and criticized the High Representative and what is the criticism? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18949	Thank you. You were really within the time we agreed. Mrs. Ljilja Milićević, may Mrs. Ruža Sopta be prepared, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18950	I thank Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister Eždaun, so I must say, I have listened to a good part of the discussion and the questions that my colleagues have asked, at least I have the impression that these are most of the questions that we should have asked ourselves. The fact that the focus is on addiction, means the institution, namely both this home and us as MPs, individually, collectively, depending on the representatives of the international community and the transfer of responsibility to them in terms of decision-making, is a disease that 71 of which we are well ill. And I want to admit it to myself first, and then I'm going to convince you that we need to be treated. That's the first one. Secondly, gentlemen, the fact is, I'd rather have us here today as our relationship and analysis of the results of what we've been doing. I won't list the laws we passed in this term, the way we brought them in, so we reached a consensus. And, believe me, it's for me the greatest success we've ever achieved. So we came to these reform laws that were written, by consensus. That's what we have to learn, that's what our opposition has to learn to accept a solution if it's good as well to finally accept the will of the people, the democratic will of the people was the power of this kind. It's not... replication, it's because of the truth, that's what I'm saying. What I'm saying is, I don't want to defend Mr. Eždaun, so we've been looking at the High Representative's relationship with the law-making institutions and, uh, the powers that are, the Bon authorities. That's a lot to say. I mean, that we have a problem here, that we think it's enough to pass the law, shrivel it up and say it, that's what we did. We don't follow laws, we don't enforce laws, so we haven't taken into our own hands law enforcement, and I'm afraid we have a lot of hollows in this system. My questions to Mr. Eždaun, since everyone asked him something today, this is a rare opportunity to get answers, it's first. Do you think that it has been fully used, meaning the existing capacity of the BiH Constitution, means that all institutions function as they have been given constitutional powers? That first question. The second question, do you think it's an exit strategy, so some call international communities in BiH more dependent on the international community, on their decision or on ourselves, when we walk by ourselves and become able to act on our own? Is the decision still up to us? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18951	Thank you. Mrs. Ruža Sopta. I'd like to ask you, as soon as you've gone down, we're discussing. Let Mr Filip Andrić be prepared and then we have more Mr. Ćaman, Mrs. Palavrić, Mrs. Kapetanović, and then the High Representative will address. Here, that's it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18952	I thank Mr. Chairman, dear guests, dear colleagues, colleagues, I will try to be more specific and in what I want to say, I will say with as little emotion as possible with the desire not to offend or hurt anyone. 72 The Office of the High Representative was necessary and it is the need of this country both in this time and in the time behind us, whether in this form or in another, modified with greater and slightly less power. In a lot of things the OHR Office certainly justified its existence but believe it, a large, large majority of Hrvat in BiH the first and only association when mentioning OHR is the shift of Croatian officials, ignoring and discriminating Croatian language in BiH and thus ignoring the BiH Constitution, as well as the ban on certain Croatian adjectives etc. Mr. High Representative, Lorde Eždaun, your office, and by doing so, you have sinned in connection with the individual and collective rights of the Hrvat as a constituent people of BiH. First of all, when it comes to language rights. You've done the Hrvat a huge injustice, a huge walk. In the long run, you have done damage to all the peoples of BiH no matter how much more or less aware of it at this time. The equality of nature is the only foundation on which we can build BiH. That's what BiH never had through history and finally, that's why Yugoslavia fell apart. This Parliament together with you and your office, we have been given a historic opportunity, a historic chance to ensure this area lasting peace on the basis of equality and full national freedoms, because this people are, in these areas, eager for national freedoms because they never had them. So we have a chance to ensure lasting peace and unity in building up this country. So I urge you not to be remembered, trained by injustice, to reconsider the views of your office and yourself in connection with the fundamental rights of the people because the key role in laws and education and the Law on the TV system had your office. I claim that we would do much more and that we would be closer to European integration today, that we would do much more on the education system if we hadn't often and not only in the education system, that we didn't often stick to the Constitution by proving the rights of the Constitution which your office has often ignored. Mr Holbruk once said, not long ago, that he made a mistake when he gave Mr Milošević the signal, but we know, because he was misinformed. We know that from that mistake came a river of blood. Please, don't make a similar mistake that will have far-reaching consequences in these areas and that will take a long time for these people to come back to that position that BiH needs and the equality of these peoples to build and upgrade this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18953	Thank you. Mr. Filip Andrić, may Mr. Mirsad Ćeman be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18954	I thank Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, esteemed guests, I will be very brief because a good number of thoughts have been taken by Mrs. Sopta before, but it is as in favor of this haste and shortness of time. I'd like to talk a little bit maybe about not only the Bona fide ovals, since they seem to me somehow to be in the spotlight of our present story, of course wanting this 73 story, and not for a little bit to degrade all the successes that we have today, here we have not talked much about them, which we have achieved together, but it seems to me that there are not so many problems of the Bona Authority in many cases, such as overdoing or better said abuse of these powers. That's the question almost nobody's talking about. If they were to be used as prescribed, there would probably not be this much resistance and anger and reaction to them. But the question is overruns and the question is the consequences of such decisions. As far as I can see, the consequences, for the consequences of those decisions, were the good ones or the bad ones, are not answered by anyone. I'll just mention some of these consequences. As my colleague Kunić said earlier, challenging the law-making right and someone mentioned earlier that Mr. Eždaun cannot, there is no way to reach Mr. Petrić by the number of decisions made. Not only that, Mr. Petrić not only passed the laws but he imposed the Constitution. Here's to at least imposing it in one fair way, taking care of all three constituent nations in this country, one would somehow accept it. However, he certainly stepped out of the Bosnian powers with his unfair constitutional changes. A people in BiH are being kicked out of the constitution. And this is the least numerous people, the Croatian people, rather than, when it comes to the rights of the least numerous people, to be a cliché to define the rights of the larger, the other two constituent nations, he unfortunately lost his equality, or the constitutionality of Petric's famous constitutional changes in the Federation and did not win it in the RS. As a consequence, we have 250,000 displaced Hrvat from the RS. To this day, 12.5 grand came back. The second also, a colossal decision was a tank audit at Hercegovina Bank. I think every other big story is too high on this subject. I wonder, I ask the question to the one who made such a decision were a similar decision in his country made in the same situation. But, on the side, not getting into it, as fair or not, that's not how it's done, but the fact that there's blocked funds of private economies, private savings, state institutions and that bank has been destroyed, people are out of work, without labour rights, saving without the right to their property, or their rights have been denied. And on the other hand, that decision stands four years old. If there was anything to look for, to revise some allegedly committed crime, then for Bog's sake, I guess it could have been done a long time ago. Why don't you let the bank work? Further, individual decisions, people's shifts, not only did it go, I apologized, not only did it go on shift from function, but it went on to deny fundamental human rights. If someone is denied the right to work, the right to be chosen, so what is different than breaking the Convention on Human Rights. After all, I do not think that the powers of the Bona Authority are in this sense that the Convention on Human Rights can be violated, and therefore I propose one conclusion as a complement to these conclusions, that all decisions of the Office of the High Representative which are contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights be declared invalid. For a short time, I'll be done now. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18955	Thank you very much. Please be shorter. Mr. Ćeman, let Mrs. Palavrić and Mrs. Kapetanović be prepared. And that, that's it, then the High Representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18956	So, I'll really try very briefly. Firstly, I agree with the good part of the findings of these ten points prepared by the Commission. It can be held for certain qualifications and observations and perhaps different something of this, to define but basically I think the thing is well set up. If the Commission will work on the upgrade, it depends on whether, what we will conclude, then there are some things that can be fixed.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18957	That's what we'll figure out.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18958	I can agree that the role or at all the need to instigate the High Representative at the beginning of the Dayton period, and we know what we mean by that, was both inevitable and necessary, besides that in the Commission's view. I agree that it is time for her to try, to say valorize and revolving, or that it is time to see how ready we are to simply take the job away from the High Representative. I heard a statement in that sense, in fact, that sometimes, or paraphrased it, by my inadequate work, when I say, I mean all BiH institutions, we give him a job. This does not, of course, mean that I have no objections to the past 10 years and the use or conduct of high-level transmitters, either from a formal-legal fundamental aspect of human rights, etc. But it's my grade, this institution was necessary, and I'm fully estimating it positively. I end with one question, either the High Representative or the disagreement with one evaluation that was in the opening statement. I do, however, believe that the issue of constitutional reforms in BiH, after all, is a very important question, that it is also a prerequisite for faster economic recovery and development because sometimes there are insufficiently clear constitutional or wrong constitutional solutions, which have so far made sense, we simply cannot go faster. Therefore, my question is why is the finding that this is, I will translate it so still a second-rate question, although I think the question of a good constitution is the first question and the question of all issues in one country.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18959	Thank you, Mr. Ćeman. Mrs. Seada Palavrić and have Mrs. Senija Kapetanović prepare. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18960	Thank you, dear colleagues, Ministers of Honor, Mr Eždaun, I believe that the very fact that we are finally able to talk about the role of High Representative in the Parliamentary Assembly is very important and is talking about our maturity, at least after 10 years. I expected that we would talk in general about the role of the High Representative and therefore about what Mr. Eždaun said in his opening statement, which I agree with as a whole, unlike some of my colleagues who either did not listen or did not hear what Mr. Eždaun said. But apparently, the blade turned to Mr. Eždaun, neglecting the fact that Mr. Vestendorf was one of the important tasks of unifying the social democratic parties, Mr. Petrić, who stopped privatisation, who did not respect the electoral will of the citizens, who installed the Alijansa with the task of just kicking HDZ and the SDA out of power, so the Alijansa that was able to rule in the Federation. And the fact that we never got a high representative of the European People's Party. For the first time, we received a liberal who was able to respect the election will of the citizens in 2002. And unfortunately, for those who attack him, it is the first, the primary, and the greatest sin, that cannot be forgiven. What is an alternative to these parties that won 2002? It's in the SDP Federation and the RS SRSD. We are witnessing a minimalization of every success of the position for the last three years, through the media of elephants and SNSD and SDP. In the Federation of Minimising and in RS, I would also say the mines of making reform decisions that BiH should make a self-sustainable and functional state. What I will not ask the High Representative anything but I will refer to the fact that he himself said that the role of the High Representative is a threat to democracy and that is most reflected in human rights and in my opinion a little inconsistencies when it comes to shifts because, let's say, in the Federation, we also prohibit Bičakčić from working in a public institution, any one and once we allow poplašiti or Čović to be presidents of waists or professors at universities. The other thing is, inconsistencies with Olduka about banning the availability of military property. I still think she had to have a retroactive fact. And thirdly, I believe that the High Representative still does not have the authority to put aside the law adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly. It's his job to help us get to that law. However, all in all, the role of the High Representative in my opinion is inevitable and was and still is, it is 90% positive. There's 10% of this inadequacy. And, if Bog does, when the moment comes to hand over power to the local authorities, I still see that the current position is on the best track to take over. Thank you. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18961	Thank you very much. Mrs. Senija Kapetanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18962	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear coelga and guests, I really wouldn't even answer today because there have been a lot of discussions, if I hadn't been a little provoked by certain discussions of my colleagues and the opportunity to say so today, and therefore I won't point out to Mr. High Representative Ezhdawn any questions except here, I can say on behalf of that, that these conclusions proposed by the Commission can be accepted with some small additions or by my own, if that's the case, or we'll adopt them today, and I think that I'm just saying, as an introduction to some of these discussions, that at the end of the day, our situation has been since '92. and behavior all in BiH and the events that happened to us inevitably forced us to play a role, and it would be strange if the international community hadn't done so, if it hadn't put us in the role of the High Representative, because it's obvious that we've shown that we're not able to solve some things, that the deal wasn't before and today they're gone. And that's an excuse for having to play that role. Of course, we're like this state of BiH seems to be like a child who grows up and comes at a time of puberty, and then maturity, and if we don't let her mature, she'll never be able to make decisions. As our child, we say, let's include him making some decisions with us, to get used to him becoming mature and to pass on that responsibility to him for his destiny. That's how I think this role is for high-ranking representatives, too. It's no longer a person's name, but that function should be so imagined that it gradually involves us, to bring us that part of maturity, because it's obvious that we weren't able to do it today. And just in the work so far, in some kind of reaction, I think that's what it was supposed to be, what it was, and that only a few of them were too slow and they didn't all need it. So, there are a lot of people who should still be replaced, who should, who don't deserve to be in certain functions and that... stays. So justice is not fully done. And I have to mention this. Here, colleagues have mentioned this problem that we end up running into, this constitution that is not satisfied with anyone in BiH, and none of the people are satisfied. One thinks we're going too slow, one thinks we'd go to the heart of their rights already acquired in this '92 period, one thinks they didn't get enough of those rights, and that's what we disagree on, and that's why we need
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18963	Time, you bring an end
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18964	Please, I'm sorry. Here's just two more sentences. But we never say that we need to make a constitution so that the state is not tight to any of the people. But let's keep forgetting, in the current structures, that some are tight. We in the Serbian Republic have two peoples who are close because they are in a relationship such as the Serbian 77 people in BiH and they do not want that part of the community, but they want that part of the special territorial one to say, restrictions on powers and within those peoples who are in this proportion, the percentage of the ownership, do not have those rights and cannot, and they forget that the anxiety of that people and constantly think that the anxiety within the Federation, that is, the Federation and the Republika Srpska. Here, thank you. I'm really sorry I made it up a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18965	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the debate is closed, I said list of registered, please nice, we only have more, please nice. Before the High Representative speaks, I would like to ask Mrs Perkanović if you can refrain from the discussion. Come on, come on in. Mrs. Mara Perkanović, a brief replica please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18966	I mean, I'm sorry that my colleague made a statement like this, when it was known that the Federation of BiH did not respect the constitutionality of the people, and the RS respected it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18967	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have concluded the debate between us. Before the High Representative speaks, I would ask Minister Ivanic for two minutes two to three minutes and I give him my word. Here you go, and then the High Representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18968	Honorable MPs, only two, three sentences. Mr. High Representative, I think the key decision is whether BiH should have a High Representative or not, in BiH institutions. From today's debate, I've gotten the impression that we of the High Representative convince that it shouldn't be practical or that it's time for his role to slowly come down. My opinion that this decision can be made by this Parliament, the conclusion of this Parliament, if it could be achieved and the bigger problem is that I believe it cannot be achieved, that we no longer need a High Representative, would be automatically fulfilled, I assure you, from representatives of international institutions, and the EU itself. It would be a surprise to them, but I'm sure it would come true. As Minister, for 2.5 years now, and the High Representative knows very well about it, I was saying that I think that the time has come to shut down the role of the High Representative and I have been very often criticised for expressing my own position. I did express my own position because 78 of this type of attitude in BiH's institutions was not there. And my belief is that only the existence of the High Representative is a major restriction on BiH. So I'm not talking about the specific name and the last name, the posts that seem to be, I have my own views very much and very much critical views. But I think that the existence of an institution of the High Representative is a great restriction for BiH, that it produces a situation where everything that happens in it is interpreted more of the ability of the High Representative than domestic institutions, and I think that in some ways another sense of instability and indifference of the BiH institutions is produced, that this is a very widespread feeling, as well as in the EU institutions to stop us. If that is a fundamental question, are we actually ready to make it clear and precise whether there is political consent or not? As far as concrete moves are concerned, of course we should say a lot about the concrete moves first of all of us ministers and then, of course, the High Representative. Essentially, every authority needs to answer to someone and the authority of the High Representative. And I think that in this context, in agreement with the High Representative, it is necessary to enter into that if the High Representative does not respond then at least speak to Parliament and other BiH institutions and I think that would make a significant step. So I think that today's debate is more important, less important about who the High Representative is and what the moves he's made are, than the fact that we're going to have at least one more year of the High Representative, because the proposals on the formation of a transitional period that I was making 2.5 years ago have not been accepted and obviously we're going to have another high representative. Now, it's a big question of how much time. I think it's optimistic that this ends by October of next year, as Mr. Eždaun says. But I think it is crucial that the mandate, the roles of the definition of this new high representative define this home in co-operation with the predsjedništvo and the Council of Ministers. I don't think it'll be good if the new High Representative is appointed and BiH's indiscriminate position doesn't come out of what we expect of him and where we see his mandate and his role. And I think that in that part, if I can suggest to the foreign policy commission, that in the next few days or so, if you want Sundays, given that it will be relatively quick and decide on a new high predicate, define our position and what we are asking of the institutions present here in BiH, as long as and what role it is. Specific moves and differences that exist, and sometimes exist, can be spoken of elsewhere on other occasions. I know it's not easy to be a High Representative in this country, as it is not easy for us to be with each other or with the High Representative. But about us, about the role he played and the concrete moves, it's likely that time is far more... essential to me the question is, how does it go on? I'm still representing the position that we can do without the High Representative. I still think it would be crucial for the country to decide to say something like that, but probably 79 political realities say it is not realistic at the moment. As long as we have that institution, we will be deemed not to be finished, and that will stop us from approaching normal European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18969	Thank you. Thank you very much. The word has the High Representative for BiH, Mr Pedi Eždaun.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18970	Mr. Chairman, thank you. I think this discussion was very important and useful. I'm going to try really briefly to answer that. Gospdoin Lagumdžija, Mr. Chairman, forgive me if I speak for more than five minutes, but there's a lot to cover. Still, I'd start with what Mr. Ivanic said. It's always like that in Parliament. I've been sitting in Parliament for more than 20 years, then people want to say more than what's on the agenda. That's what happened today. That's perfectly normal. But I think if you study my speech, you will see a clear framework on which we can come as one agreement between the international community and the BiH authorities in terms of how to run this transition process. If you look at it, and I hope you will, then you'll see some suggestions about the first steps in that process. So, Mr. Chairman, I think today is a very important event, perhaps the opening of a new chapter. This is a serious discussion. It's a discussion we need to have. She's very healthy, and it's quite good that we did it. A lot's been said. I hope we don't lose sight of what our goal is. I've given you some concrete suggestions in terms of how we could go forward and it's up to you to decide whether or not you'll accept it, and I'm really going to try to respond very quickly. But there's a lot that's been asked. Mr. Duraković asked if it was a protectorate? Mr. Duraković, you know that many philosophers have sat and considered how many angels can fit on top of a needle. This isn't a protectorate. The opposite of the protectorate is something when the protectorate appoints a government. I don't appoint a government but an electoral body, and it seems to me that Mrs. Majkić is opposed to that. She criticizes me for accepting the election results. She seems to think I should have ignored it and I should have appointed the government. I guess by that he thinks I should have named SNSD even though they weren't chosen. Now that would be a protectorate. And I'm a little surprised to say that SNSD seems to think it's a good thing. But everyone has an opinion. As far as the issues of constitutional change are concerned, as Mr Duraković said. You can't avoid your colleagues. You might want to, and I've talked to someone who wants to keep the current constitutional balance, but you can't avoid it and I'll tell you why. In some places in this country in the Federation much more than in RS, but essentially both entities have the problem. You use so much money on your citizens' authorities, you don't have 80 more money to give them decent hospitals, decent schools and decent pensions. In the Federation, it is 70% of your money, your citizens who spend on the authorities of RS is much better, but I'm not sure it's a good model for reform as well. I'm telling you that if you can't get the trust of your citizens by giving them decent services, so decent education, decent health care, decent pensions, by spending less on yourself, then you'll never have a country where young people want to stay. You can't avoid making this country more functional, so you spend less on the authorities and more on citizens. So the question isn't whether it's going to work, but how. Let me be extremely open, there are some who think that the great archangel of the international community is ready to come back to BiH, take into their own hands your Constitution and fly somewhere into an air base, some 10,000 kilometers from here or into some marble hall in Europe and write a constitution for you. But that's not gonna happen and get used to that idea. There is only one way that you can change your constitution, and it is not through the international community, but through a compromise that you will reach for each other. Only, that way you can change the Constitution. Mr. Duraković thinks it's impossible but then you will truly be a cursed country, you can change your mind only by agreement between the people. I think it's possible. I think we've already taken steps in that direction, Mr. Duraković. You say why NATO, I'll tell you why NATO. Because this country is a victim of war. The best way to guarantee peace is through this large military alliance but NATO will not always be here unless you give your contribution to NATU and therefore the steps taken yesterday under the leadership of Minister Radovanović were so important. Mr. Durakovic complained that we were talking about the EU and not about a new job programme. Mr. Duraković, don't you understand that just joining the EU is the best programme to create new jobs. That's how the young will stay here. It's the best investment. It's a way to prove you're a stable place. It's essential precisely for jobs. It will only come if you are part of the EU, not if you stop a black hole in the Balkans. Mr. Lagumdžija, Zlatko Lagumdžija, I thank you for your kind words. I think they scare me more than your brutal words. This is British irony, but thank you for your kindness. I'll tell you the figures I gave the IMF figures. I don't know what number the prime minister was giving, but these are the figures now accepted by the international community from the IMF. I accept that progress in the economy still has no impact on the lives of ordinary citizens, and until that happens, this will be a failure when it comes to the programme, work and justice. But keep in mind that it took Hungary seven years from the time they started with economic reform until the moment when their economy really brought new jobs and prosperity. Maybe your criticism says we should have started sooner, but it'll take a while. I do, however, believe that this process is ongoing. 81 You asked Zlatko what I could recommend to you to make you go faster. Your government needs to move faster. I criticize them for not doing this but let me tell you that what will make them go faster and where you can help, is to make one consensus when it comes to Europe. I do not call on opposition parties to give up their opposition rights, when it comes to other issues, whether they are the place, justice or something else, but when it comes to a fundamental issue, which is important for this country to move towards Europe, you must be able to work together. If you can't, then I'll tell you next. No country on its way to Europe has been able to achieve this goal unless opposition parties and those in power are ready to work together on their European programme. No country has succeeded in that. If you cannot reach this consensus, between the authorities and the opposition and now and after 2006 and the election that will then change the situation, if you cannot reach this consensus, then I think your chances of success are very low. If BiH remains the only country that cannot come to such an agreement, then your damage you will achieve on your European path is enormous. Mr. Avdić, why can't we get you into the EU right away? Ask Mr. Avdić. I don't mean to be rude, but you have to live in the real world. Europe is becoming more cruel. The path to Europe is changing. The door closes if you think Europe is going to let you in from charity, that's not going to happen. Moreover, Europe is now much more cruel when it comes to those who have a desire to enter membership and fulfill the councils. No Niko will let you out of charity. You either have to or you will learn, I believe you can or won't, and then you stay out. But don't delay it. The door to Europe is closing and the migrating will be a disaster. Mrs. Majkić, I've already commented on what you said. I have to say, I'm surprised. I hear that a lot. Mr. Lagumdžija said why you brought nationalists to power. It wasn't me, it was the electoral body. It may be an unfortunate fact and you can't accept it but the electoral body has chosen those who are now in power. They gave them the right to form power. It's called democracy and you have the right to criticize me, you'd have had me change election results but it's a thing of the past. If you want to be in power in this country, then you have to get elections through ballot boxes. There's no other way. The High Representative will no longer bring his friends to the hair. The only ones who will be in power are those who will win the BiH elections. So there's something else, Mrs. Majkić. With all due respect, also to Mr Ivanić and others, you accused me of overstepping my powers. I think Mr. Andrić from HDZ has accused me of the same thing. I am the first High Representative to say that if you think that I have exceeded the BiH Constitution, you can address the Constitutional Court and I will respect their decision. Mladen people, I really answer to a lot of people, but I don't answer to anyone else. Mrs. Majkić said I was working against the BiH Constitution, okay, that's easy to say. But please contact the Court if your court says that my steps are not constitutional I will honor their decision and that is very important. 82 Mr Gligorić criticized me for not coming to Parliament and working with you. I say it's a criticism that's in place. I'm guilty of the way you accused me, I'm guilty. But may I remind you that I am the first High Representative to ever come to Parliament and this is the fourth time I've been here with you, and every time I've asked to come alone, this is the first time that you've called me. If you want me to come here, all you have to do is ask for it. If in any case while I'm the High Representative you ask me to come here, give answers, and ask a question, I'll consider it a kind of instruction that I must honor as soon as possible. So, I'm guilty of not coming here as often as I might have been, but Mr. Gligorić and you might be a little guilty here, because you didn't ask me to come to Parliament. So I repeat again if you want me to come here and talk to Parliament, I will be here as soon as I can to come and answer your questions. I hope I'm not wasting too much time. You also asked about the auditors, about the auditors that were changed. They weren't kicked out. Their mandate has expired under the existing law. Under the current law, they have no right to continue to act on that mandate. Under the new law drafted by the OHR and to be found here in Parliament soon, they will have the right to re-apply for those positions. So, they were not expelled from office, their mandate ended. Mr Gligorić also asked why I did not replace Mr Sulejman Tihić, who gave his opinion and different opinions about the RS and its existence. People have the right to express their political opinions on the condition that they do not use them to upset hatred. People here have also given their opinions about the High Representative but I won't change anyone because I don't think you can have a real debate unless you let people say their opinions. Of course, provided that this opinion does not develop ethnic hatred. Anything else would actually mean that we live in a protectorate rather than what we described as a situation in BiH. We also heard a question about the international community's exit strategy from BiH. Mrs. Milićević mentioned it to me. Once again, the international community cannot allow itself to leave BiH because we cannot allow BiH to once again become a black hole, the instability of this region on its way to Europe. The international community simply cannot go and leave the situation. The question is, what's our role here? If you do not include this country in Europe and NATO, the international community will remain here to a large extent both through troops and in other ways. But if you join these institutions, we will gradually withdraw and help you on your way to Euro-Atlantic institutions. So there is no exit strategy as such for the international community, but there is only an entry strategy for BiH and its accession to Euro-Atlantic structures. 83 And in the end, I don't know if I've answered all the questions. Mr. Petar Kunić accused me of taking more into account the opinion of one side when it comes to police reform. I don't think we're talking about compromise here, Mr Kunić, but we're talking about EU standards. Either we fill them out or we don't. I could reach a compromise on police reform, we could all but it really wouldn't make any sense if it wasn't for something, there wouldn't be a solution that was in line with EU standards. Some of you may think it's unfair. Maybe it's not fair that things are like that, but you know, the EU is a club. They have the right to set conditions for those who want to join them. If you are not ready to comply with the conditions they have set, you cannot join them. I wish there was another message, but this is the very essence. I think we can come to an agreement now based on flexibility and goodwill, and I hope that we can come to a solution to this issue soon. And one more thing, in the end, if you'll excuse me, I'd tell Mrs. Sopta who again accused me of ignoring the Constitution. If you consider Mrs. Sopta that in my relationship with HDZ and Hrvat in this country I have violated the BiH Constitution, please refer these decisions to the Constitutional Court. Let him consider their constitutionality, I'll accept the result. I also told representatives of the SDS who also very often claimed that I had violated the Constitution. Please take these decisions to the Constitutional Court, ask them to be decided, and I will respect the decision of the Constitutional Court. When it's in the question of language and you mentioned it. I think that's where you meant PBS. The existence of one channel in one language is not only contrary to the principles of the EU but is also a case related to the Study of Performance and Jurodmepa. So it was also said in a legal opinion that an ethnic broadcaster would be contrary to Dejton. Maybe you can nod your head on what I said, but there's an international legal opinion. In order to adhere to the Dayton provisions and standards of the EU, I am here not to treat one nation but to the framework given to me in order to ensure the future of this country. Of course, you have the right to language and to culture, but BiH cannot survive if the diversity of cultures in this country, the diversity of its peoples, faiths and languages are not preserved as the true wealth of this country. Without it, BiH cannot truly be BiH. And I am fully determined to ensure that although I may not be able to go as far as you sometimes would like. So, I've taken up a lot of your time. So I welcomed this discussion, this debate. If you call me again, I'll come and talk to you. I hope you'll consider some of the suggestions I made today. I believe their intention was to provide a genuine framework for dialogue and for further progress in BiH. I agreed with Mrs. Kapetanović and what she said. She said BiH is growing up and changing. I think it's a remarkable country that's made huge progress in the last 10 years. And however difficult this time is in front of you, he's not as heavy as the road you've come. I think the time has come for you to take far more responsibility within this institution and for OHR to work less and less, to begin this next phase of creating a unique decentralised, sovereign, modern 84 country in line with the European standards in which the powers here in this House are in this room and not elsewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18971	I thank the High Representative for BiH for the answers to the questions he has given. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is how we concluded the debate. I am convinced that the proposals put forward today in the debate both by the High Representative and by our colleagues who have discussed us will find their place in the final report offered by this commission. I suggest we finish this agenda by adopting a conclusion to say one. So that our committee's report provides a good basis for resolving this issue or for answering the issue of BiH institutions' relations with the Office of the High Representative as defined already, the BiH institutions' relationship to the mandate of the international community in BiH and, 2. To owe our commission that given all the debates that we have heard today and the High Representative's speech and the High Representative's answers to this question, it offers one text of conclusions that would later be passed on to this House. If that's what we can conclude, I urge you to make a statement on the proposal for these conclusions by voting. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives by majority vote, with 30 votes in favour, 1 against and 2 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, has therefore adopted these two conclusions. And we'll have this back at Parliament. Now I'm taking a break from about 10 minutes, to get a little refreshed, and the High Representative has other obligations, to say goodbye to the High Representative, and we'll keep working. We'll continue at 4:05. We're going back to work. [[PAUZA]] 85 We move to the ninth item of the agenda, Add.9. Giving consent to the ratification of the Credit and Financial Agreement between the Kreditansalt fur Wiederaufbau Frankfurt am Main, so banks and Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federation of BiH and RS resuscitation of the city waterway in the Unsko-San region I am opening a debate on this topic. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Prepare to vote on approval for ratification. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 22 for, no problem, no abstention, enough entity majority. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has agreed to ratify the Credit and Financial Agreement between the Kreditansalt fur Wiederufbau Frankfurt am Main and BiH, the Federation of BiH and RS – the rehabilitation of the city's waterway in the Un-San region. So, we move to the tenth item of the agenda, Add.10. Information on the issue of passports and car plates with a proposal for activities to resolve this problem and determine responsibility for the situation of the Honored colleague and colleagues, in preparation for this agenda, was called today by the Minister of Civil Affairs, Mr Safet Halilović, who is at a meeting on education in Banja Luka, and he cannot come here to Parliament today and submit information to us. He told me to inform you and I do, that today he will be with us here as assistant minister in charge of the area, which is called Miodrag Pandurević and who is present here in the hall. And, if you want, Mr. Pandurević can file a report and if you want, we can leave it for 27 when the minister is here, so you tell me what you want. That's what the minister said. That's how I pass it on to Parliament. Well, Mr. Lagumdžija has marketed his word, I give him my word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18972	Mr. Chairman, naturally, we don't need to be informed by someone with what we know from the papers. We need to be alarmed today first of all by whoever is responsible for this and that if they already have more to do, the right to tell you I am now aware of the fact that Minister Halilović is practically in charge of this because otherwise around these passports I see that these from another ministry were being apologized the other day, this seems to me to be for safety. Because of this confusion these children made, what people brought children with birth certificates and students' books to the sea, so they returned them from Croatia because the poor Croatian customs officers did not know that our council of ministers sent their own 86 people with student books to go to another country. So I'm really seeing it now, but it's still about the Civil Service, which confuses me a little bit. And on second thought, it's logical, I have nothing to be confused about. I expected that because of a theme like this, the president of the Council of Ministers came because it is still a few, here's what the foreign minister told me, I trust a man indeed, knowing what the role of the Foreign Ministry is, says I Zlatko, I have nothing to do with it. So it turns out that the assistant minister who's probably in charge of some of those segments, and we're not interested in segments, is going to be here someone we need to ask some questions about. That's why my proposal, Mr. Chairman, is for us as serious people to adopt one conclusion today and I suggest a conclusion right now. The Council of Ministers is in charge, you certainly explained to me by the first one, according to my proposal that in seven days, there was a Palrament. It is therefore up to the Council of Ministers to resolve the problems created in 7 days and to come to Parliament with appropriate information and a plan of activities on the system resolution of passports, car plates and accompanying documents with information on sanctioning those responsible for the situation, including those for which parliamentary support is required. And as we adopt this conclusion, we don't need to practically sit there, we have an assistant minister to take this conclusion and that they're simply solving this, to realize that they have to solve this in seven days or they'll all be kicked off their feet by this Parliament in seven days unless they give people a reasonable explanation of what they've been doing, but to solve these problems anyway. That's my suggestion, so that we don't now have some debate that will eventually bring us back to the adoption of one such or similar conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18973	Yes, thank you. Who else wants to talk about this? Mr. Beriz Belkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18974	I'm not against Mr. Lagjmdžija's proposal, but if we already have an assistant minister here and if people have prepared some information, it would be useful for me to hear the other side. You know, so I suggest before we make a statement about any conclusion that we hear because we've been looking for information, here's the people organized, they've come to submit information. It's not the first time an assistant minister has submitted information. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18975	Thank you very much. The word has an assistant, please, business intervention, excuse me, Mr. Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18976	So this is about not only one segment but it's about a whole set of questions and passports and tables and accompanying documents and problems at the border and all that, if the assistant minister has to say, so wide a review of the game and the authority to inform us all together, I don't see any reason not to get any further information but to know what we're talking about. So, what's the agenda? If only the man would come out to us, just what he said on TV about passports, that they were told that they would arrive and that we saw today in the paper how some people wear passports, then it's not a topic. The theme is all this together which is a little bit wider, so to clarify Mr. Chairman, before,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18977	Mr. Lagumdžija, I've made that clear as far as I'm concerned. So, I'm going to tell you honestly now how I feel about your proposal. What I could accept without being bit by my conscience is that we postpone today's debate by 27 and ask the Council of Ministers to deliver us information. But to vote today on a conclusion that determines some responsibility, someone's responsibility that we haven't even heard from, I've never accepted it, and I can't accept it, no matter what the big problem is, which I know is someone's responsible for that problem, but I want to hear it, I want to hear the other side. And that's perfectly normal and logical. And what we can about if you think it's wider, that it's a bigger procedure and one bigger spectrum of questions is whether, from a question that may be answered by an assistant minister, I don't mind if we move it and ask for information, and after that, when we hear that information, we'll make the right conclusions. But here's Mr. Gligorić asking for a word, Mrs. Palavrić, a business intervention, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18978	I think we voted the agenda point even though I voted against it, the competent person is there, I want to hear the information that Mr Lagumdžija wanted to hear at first. If we don't have enough, we'll continue at the next session, but today I don't want to interrupt or take off this item of the agenda because I don't think it's the way we want to introduce ourselves. That's why I want to hear from a competent person about the condition. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18979	Okay. Mr. Gligorić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18980	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would suggest that we hear the representative of the ministry but that this point continues to go to the next session, so as not to acquit the Minister's absence, but to address us and thus end this debate, and I think you're right. There is no saying that anyone brings or determines someone's responsibility without having heard the other side before. Therefore, I would still ask that we may listen but at the same time conclude that question at the next session. I think that's a correct solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18981	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. Mr Miodrag Pandurević, the assistant minister of civil affairs has his word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18982	I'll just gently inform the delegates that the state of the passport forms is next. In fact, according to the analysis we have made and monitored throughout this 6-month period, it is clear that the stocks at the Ministry of Civil Affairs fully cover the requirements that have been filed.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18983	A little louder, Miodrag, let's hear you better.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18984	So the supplies we have are fully covered by the applications submitted. We've been checking to see if there's been a breach of 30 days. I must repeat to you, as I have repeated several times, citizens do not know it has come, that last year we have brought amendments to the Law on travel documents under which the deadline for issuing travel documents is 30 days abroad, 60 days abroad. In addition, we introduced a significant newspaper last year by adopting amendments to the Law on Travel Documents, and we made a commitment that children must have passports. It is part of the international tendency to fight child trafficking. And so, in this season, it greatly increased the number of requests compared to the current 3-4 months this year by 300%. So we were aware at the Ministry that there would be an increase in the number of requests. And in that sense, we did a budget projection for a million and 800 marks. We were granted a million and which is a very slight increase in terms of real needs, so we 89 had compared to last year we had a consumption of passport forms about 210 thousand, for the appropriations this year, given that we had to pay customs and all that unfortunately we couldn't get out, the personalization of customs as we had in some previous periods, so in those quantifications we'd already ordered about 205,000. So we're concesively taking over the quantities, so there's no fear at all that there's going to be a 30-day break. We are making efforts by introducing a quadruple system in the CIPS Directorate to speed up this process and to reduce that deadline. That would basically be the essence of the information. There's nothing new to add. So there's no fear at all. I think there's been some exaggeration and information by the press. It seems to me that there are some problems that have not actually been made. That would basically be the information. As far as the second part is concerned by the distribution of license plates, my colleague, who works, gave me information that the Ministry of Civil Affairs is in the tender stage and that the jurisdiction regarding this matter is, therefore, the acquisition of the distribution of license plates now in the entity's jurisdiction until the new year, when it takes over the Ministry of Civil Affairs. This is the information that, at this point, if you have any questions at all, we are prepared to answer but we need to make it clear that we are following this issue. We are indeed with the approved level of funding in the budget, we are really not satisfied, given the changes that are directly following us, which is the adoption of the biometric passport, the adoption of input technology, etc. So what follows us directly, so this level of funds that we've been granted is enough to cover this year's needs but there was no room for creating some larger supplies. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18985	No microphone turned on What year, this year or last?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18986	For this year I'm saying, so we've been looking at the projections by the end of this year, we've been looking for 1 million and 800 this year, last year we've had 800 grand approved, and that's enough to cover the needs of last year. Last year, we passed changes to the law under which children are now obliged to wear.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18987	no microphone....entity is up to this year table
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18988	Look, I have this information that their jurisdiction by the end of this year, it's until the end of this year, and then, next year, the Ministry of Civil Affairs is taking over these jobs. 90
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18989	Okay, thank you, Mr. Pandurević. You can sit in your seat. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Lagumdžija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18990	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I guess now you understand why I am, I was afraid there would be this kind of information. I understand Mr. Pandurević. I mean, he's in the position he's in, and I'm very sorry that he was brought into this situation. We've heard here that for travel documents everything will be within the legal deadline in 30 days that people will get it. The press got a little high, I guess all the media including this one is, uh, that's not being printed. So there's no problem with passports, and the press is a little bit to blame. It's about the passport. And as for the charts, it has nothing to do with us. This has something to do with us since the new year, and this is now the entity MUP's fault. You don't need to be spectacularly informed to know that it's early this year, and at the announcement, we're being bombed by entity MUP announcements that by interest are people looking for whoever's lying and stealing. So I guess people don't lie and steal. They explained to us that this is a state-level ministry, and now I see that civil affairs took over in the middle of the year, early in the year, in the middle, so now I see it by the new year. At the same time, a tender was launched in the framework of state institutions on January 5th of this year for the purchase of these postcards for tables and all other technologies, and this has already been withdrawn for more than half a year. So, with all due respect, what the elemental informed man knows is much, much more dramatic than what we've heard here. I really, Mr. Chairman, don't think we've solved the problem with this, or that we've solved the problem of getting to know, that the press is a little bit of the one who's getting high, here's my colleague, and as far as these tables are concerned, from the new year we're going to be responsible and by the new year we're going to be responsible for someone else. So once again, here you are in writing, so I suggest that the Council of Ministers be tasked with solving the problems in seven days. Have the Council of Ministers write to us that there's no problem. Let him write this for us. And to go to Parliament with the relevant information plan of activities on system solutions, I am aware to put it in the system, so in the system it can solve the press of passports, car tables and accompanying documents, with the information about the possible sanctioning of those responsible for the situation, if possible. And then he won't need it, and then he'll say, all right, a little bit of press has blown up, and by the new year there's nothing and, but let's get signed in writing by someone who's responsible to us and not someone who's a civil servant. And if you really think from this session that we're leaving with the conclusion that the press has blown something up, I'm not going to be in on it. So I'm asking that fellow Fatima make a statement about this conclusion of mine, don't be wrong to you, because I wouldn't want to stay like the man who left today satisfied with the fact that the press blew it up a little bit without us being responsible. 91
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18991	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija, you don't have the need for this, that kind of theatricality is whether, colleagues can answer you and please, no need, I don't watch me when the media, when it's not the media, I watch all the time, the session is this and when the media is not the media, we need to be the same. Anyone else want to talk? Okay, thank you very much, highly respected colleagues. I'm in the middle of a debate. I'd like to ask Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's proposal for a conclusion. I think this proposal is the conclusion of Mr. Lagumdžija if I can read it now, I'll do my best. So, here's the deal. It is up to the Council of Ministers to resolve the problems created within 7 days and to come to Parliament with appropriate information and a plan of activities in the system resolution of passports, car plates, accompanying documents with information on the possible sanctioning of those responsible, due to the situation created, including those whose responsibility requires parliamentary support. I'm, as I read it and as you've heard, that's it. So this is Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's proposal and I will now take the right to discuss this subject. So, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, if you'll allow me here at this place where I sit, so I think we should address the Council of Ministers with a request that we be supplied with information. But also, I think, as Parliament without proper information, we don't need some things to prejudge. Here, with full respect for Mr. Lagumdžija, some things are being prejudged and I, of course, have no information and without what I need to get from the Council of Ministers I wouldn't be ready to engage in prejudge. I'm gonna put this to a vote and you're gonna get to the bottom of it. I, therefore, but, but, therefore, am now also proposing that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly be obliged by the Council of Ministers to provide information to this House, within 7 days until the next session, concerning the current issue of books or forms for the issue of travel documents, i.e. passports and license plates, period. When we get that information, we'll see what it says and then we'll see what we do. But Mr. Lagumdžija has first proposed a conclusion and I will put his conclusion to the vote and then you will also get my proposal for a vote. 92 I propose the conclusion of Mr. Lagumdžija Zlatko for a plea. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Five for, 13 against, seven abstentions. Mr Lagumdžija's proposal did not receive parliamentary support. I'm making a proposal for my conclusion on the plea. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 19 for, 6 against, 1 abstention, enough entity majority. I find that the House of Representatives has adopted this conclusion that I have suggested. Thank you very much. Mr. Lagumdžija, are you looking for a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18992	I'm not asking for a word. I'm waving them a list.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-19-0.u18993	Great, thank you very much. Then we'll see how we can work it out. Please, nice. We've finished this item on the agenda. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to give you some service information, therefore, which is very important for our upcoming work. First of all, we agreed on it this morning at the College and you were already informed that the next 63rd session of the House of Representatives would be on the 27th of the month here in this room at 10 o'clock. For that session will be this agenda prepared by the Secretary of the House, all of which are ready for the session. It was then that from 1.8 to 20.8. The College therefore planned that MPs could take advantage of the annual holidays and, of course, in the period from 1st to 20th, your addresses must be known where you are, registered at the Assembly Secretariat, if we need to call a session of Parliament, but from 20th, expect the work of both parliamentary committees and the House itself. This is particularly related to the coming set of laws concerning defence reform, which needs to be considered in this House, according to our estimates no later than sometime in early September and no later than 10 September. So this is the information, thank you for having responded today. I close the 62nd session at 4:37 p.m. I'll see you on the 27th this month. Thank you very much.
