ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4924	Gentlemen, honored delegates, honored guests, distinguished representatives of public information funds, I welcome you all and open the 49th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are 13 delegates present at today's session. About this 4 from the Bosniak people, 4 from the ranks of the Croatian peoples pardon 5 from the order of the Croatian people and 4 from the order of the Serbian people. The absence was justified by Mr Ćengić and Mr Đoko Pajić. Vinko Radovanović will be in a few minutes, however, we will guide him as if he were there. For the 49th session of the agenda, I propose the next agenda, Agenda 1. Answers to delegates' questions and delegates' questions; 2. The adoption of the minutes with the 47th and 48th sessions of the House of Peoples; 3. Confirmation of the BiH Presidency Decision establishing candidates for the general position in the Republika Srpska Army; 4. The Commission's report to the Nationals' College on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of the delegation, Hasan Čengić, and on the Proposal for a Law on the Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Bosnia and Herzegovina's proposal for an emergency pardon in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations; 6. The request of the Council of Ministers of BiH to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Convention on the prohibition of development, production, accumulation and use of chemical weapons and their destruction by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations; 7. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Directorate for indirect taxation under an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the People’s House; 8 / 8 Proposal for a Law on the Public Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 9. Proposal for a law on the basis of road safety in BiH (first reading); 2 10. Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the establishment of a complex of BiH institutions and land, and their status, conditions and method of use; 11. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement on Defence Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro; 12. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Belarus on the promotion and protection of investments; 13. Giving consent to ratification of the Trade Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Belarus; 14. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Spain on the reciprocal abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports. That would be a draft agenda. Is there any proposal to amend and supplement the agenda? Is anyone picking up? Osman, go ahead. Mr. Brka has a proposal to supplement the agenda, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4925	I welcome you all, just did you read the agenda that we got on the table or did you just change before the session something? I don't think you've read this 10th point of the draft law on BiH Election Law Supplements, first reading. You didn't read that. Is that what it is or isn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4926	It'll be a proposal to get it into the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4927	This is one of these, this is one proposal he proposed and adopted by the College that I read,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4928	So it's not what's in us on the table, so tell me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4929	and sent it to you. I received information before the session that there will be a change and addition of the agenda, namely the proposal. I'm now expecting amendments and additions, so if you agree to that, we'll put it on the agenda and move on. Here you go, Mr. Ilija Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4930	My childhood is Ilija Filipović, not Nikola. I welcome Mr. Chairman, so all fellow MPs present from the Council of Ministers and others who follow our work. I would report to the College and this home that the Constitutional and Legal Commission had a session just before our session and was considering the draft law on the additions to the BiH Election Law. Since it is the 3th proposal that passed in the House of Representatives in the same form, there have been no amendments, so I propose to the College to include this in today's agenda of the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4931	Thank you very much. Any other suggestions? Mr. Spajić, you've had the ambition to propose this, giving consent to ratify the agreement, please suggest if you will. Today it was the Commission, it could not be included in the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4932	Okay, thank you. I welcome you all. The Commission was also sitting today, so we are proposing the same agenda point that is already in the materials and songs here, to be classified because we have on the side, that we should do it quickly. And I don't think there's anything disputed, the unanimous commission has stepped in on this bill that needs to be passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4933	So, I have to explain, I owe you one explanation. Today there were commissions and the College had neither the opportunity nor the opportunity to include these agenda points that you are proposing today to fit into the agenda. That's why we're going like this. So, the commissions have finished their work and Commission representatives are proposing additional agenda points to this Parliament and I hope there is no interference with adopting these agenda points. And, I suggest that the draft law supplementing the BiH Election Law is whether, in the first reading, it is the 10th item of the agenda and I propose that giving consent to the ratification of the Fund Grant Agreement between BiH and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development be classified as the 16th item of the agenda. I'll put this to a vote now. First of all, let's first see if we agree on this point of the draft law on BiH's amendments to the election law to be this, the 10th item of the agenda. Who's in? Vote now. Let's see the results of the vote, so we unanimously accept this item of the agenda as the 10th item of the agenda. And secondly, the second amendment is to give consent to the ratification of the Fund's grant agreement between BiH and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, that would be the item of the agenda that would come to 16th place. Who's up for it? Vote now. Thank you very much. So unanimous. So we've adopted these agenda points and we've established a new agenda that we don't need this one from these extra two agenda points. 4 Moving to the first item of the agenda, Ad.1. The answer to the delegates' questions and delegates' questions The answer to the delegate's question was received by Velimir Jukić. I call on my colleague Jukić to declare whether he is satisfied with the answer to his delegate question.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4934	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues, so I only got a part of the answer to my question. Namely, my question was how many employees are in public TV services in BiH, what is the national structure of employees and especially the national structure of journalists and editors. I only got an answer from the RTV Federation. And, a year ago, I sent the same question, so I expected that those responsible in these tv homes would really find themselves responsible for the fact that they didn't act, they don't act in accordance with the law and our constitution, which is an obligation to balance the natural composition of those employed by the list or about that number, or the relationship of '91. I expected, of course, that in a year they would at least do something, that at least partially correct that very significant imbalance and balance part of it is not balanced. So, I got the answer only from the Croatian Federation of BiH and I can find the following, first of all, the language they communicate with I don't know, who signed this by Esad Cerić, the gentleman, says that Mr Velimir Jukić is particularly interested, so this is very interesting, particularly interested in this implicates that no one should or should have the right to be interested in this question, because who should ask this question what I asked. So, about the natural composition of employees, especially journalists and managers, very interesting. When we analyze the answer a little, then we should not be surprised that those who answer such questions in such a language do not actually think about solving these problems, but also think that they have the right to act as they have so far. And that's, to implement whether it's such a policy and to do what they're doing right now. But here, I'm really going to cancel, because today we said that we're going to try a little bit harder in our work, so I'm going to repeat, so no improvements have been made in a year on this issue. Not at all. Like that. In response there are very interesting Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, Bosanac and others, I immediately ask the question where are the Hercegovac? If someone is qualified, I don't know how, in one part of BiH which is Bosnia, the other part of Herzegovina and together Bosnia and Herzegovina, at least that's how I understand it, then I ask where are the Hercegovac? Itd. So this is a question of language and form, but not just that. What it says here is that there are still employees of the TV Federation 5.3% of Srbin, 12.9% of Hrvat, 65.3% of Bošnjak, Bosanac 13.4%, therefore, very significant in the share of groups etc. Then in the TV Federation or Radio Federation, too, very similar, etc. So, I expect the Council of Ministers to insist by the next session or, if so, ask that the answer be completed and I expect that there will be no such defeating results in the second part of the answer to my question, and I expect that my five colleagues, although they can do so through the Constitution themselves, will ask for an indication of the possible Constitutional Court, on the sustainability of such a state and responsibility, those responsible who have brought not only bring it, but continue to maintain this state that I will repeat, absolutely unacceptable. And then I wouldn't say the consequences of this situation, the constant complaints of at least one part of the viewer, listener to the Croatian Federation of BiH programme, dissatisfaction, etc. I expect if they're more responsible so they can handle this properly, then they'll be safe with what they're doing and better quality. That's it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4935	Thank you very much. I have to ask Mr. Jukić, from the discussion I realized one half is, the answer and should I say Mr. Jukić is satisfied with this answer or not?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4936	The answer isn't complete.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4937	So the answer is not complete. We ask the Council of Ministers to take responsibility for the systems he, the Council of Ministers, observes. Thank you very much. So we have no other answers. I now invite my colleagues to see if we have any new questions. Mr Filipović,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4938	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, colleagues, colleagues, so one question to the Council of Ministers. We have witnessed a very fierce political campaign last week to determine the name of the main negotiator when the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is joined with the EU and when we have to realise what is expected of the agreement. I think it's very good to talk about it, but I'm worried about one other thing. It seemed to me in one wrong way, outside the institutional debate on the issue and the composition of the negotiating team on the Association Agreement. I ask the Council of Ministers, where are the parliamentary bodies of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in the process of negotiating such an important issue? Where are the two foreign affairs committees of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples and where is the Joint Commission for European Integration, so the BiH Parliamentary Assembly? Where is the Directorate for European Integration? Where is the BiH Presidency in charge of foreign policy affairs? He started bidding with names. I wouldn't talk about names. And it is discussed at the European Commission in BiH, Republika Srpska, the president of Republika Srpska has no one, so where is the president of the Federation, where the bodies are in the Federation of BiH, etc. It seems to me that I've gone one-on-one, and it seems to me that it's not good, and I'd like the Council of Ministers to give me six answers in that direction, which is why it's going so far, and that's why outside institutionally in the beginning I think it's the wrong way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4939	Thank you, Mr. Filipović. Mr. Tomo.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4940	Thank you, Mr. President and gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents, distinguished colleagues and fellow envoys, respected representatives of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the representatives of the international community and public information funds, I welcome you all together and I use this opportunity to ask a few of the following questions, of course, to the Council of Ministers. First, what has been done concretely so far in implementing the commitment to Sarajevo as a anti-corruption centre in Southeast Europe? Secondly, what activities have been carried out in the process of building Sarajevo as a regional anti-corruption centre? Third, are there many professional professionals from our country and the countries of Southeast Europe at the Sarajevo Anti-Corruption Centre? And, fourthly, does BiH currently have its liaison officer at the SEKI Centre in Bucharest, and what are the effects of his engagement in the period from 2001 to today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4941	Thank you, Mr. Limov. Mr. Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4942	Your Honor, I have two questions and one initiative, as this is a point called the initiative issue. A question for the Council of Ministers, what about the Commission for the establishment of Bosnia and Herzegovina's assets, as far as the Commission has come with work and what are the further perspectives? It's a matter for the Council of Ministers. A question for the BiH presidency, under the BiH Defence Act that we adopted some time ago, was established by the Institute of Mandatory Confirmation and Consentation by the Parliamentary Assembly to refer peace missions around the world and armed forces. So that means police forces. If it is timely, i.e. by the new year, it does not deliver to the Parliamentary Assembly to give consent to these missions around the world, after the new year, and the missions around the world, and from Bosnia and Herzegovina, will have no legitimacy or legality. So that's one dimension of the problem. 7 The second dimension of the problem is that under the same law, the BiH presidency is required, at least twice a year, to submit a report on peacekeeping missions. So, the question is, so the question is that the BiH presidency, when will the Bureau submit to the Parliamentary Assembly's agreement on peacekeeping missions around the world, and when will it submit a report on BiH-led peacekeeping missions? So that's two questions. At the same time, I would ask that an initiative be supported. Namely, as is known, a working group has been formed that has been working for a long time in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to draft the Rules of Procedure of both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly. The creation of these Rules of Procedures is sponsored by the OSC Mission in BiH and I think the result of this Commission's work is a very high-quality Rules of Procedure that introduces the institutions of joint committees in the Parliamentary Assembly, public hearings, meetings dedicated to asking questions to the full assembly of the Council of Ministers during certain periods, etc. The rules of procedure are one step ahead or has reached the standards of many European, democratic countries and their parliaments by many elements. I think it is very important that this Rules of Procedure be adopted by the end of this year, so that the next year the application of the Rules of Procedure and the one and the other homes before the election year will be followed, and that the new assembly will come under prepared conditions for the full re-enactment of the Rules of Procedure. It's all been brought to the end. There are some small details left, and the OSC Mission is ready to finance the printing of this Rules of Procedure in adequate equipment, as we have so far had. So that security of those funds is worth it by the end of this year. For these reasons, I propose that we conclude, so I suggest we conclude, that we call on the competent committees and one and the other at home, to carry out the necessary activities to bring these Rules of Procedure to both homes into parliamentary procedure and end by the end of this year. Please put this conclusion to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4943	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Here, we heard, in addition to whether, this is one, I would ask that in the next period of the Council of Ministers with more responsibility access to these parliamentary issues and indeed that they should treat them a little better than they are doing now. Thank you very much. And, here, I suggest and put Mr. Halid Genjac's proposal on it, and I'm putting, is there any more questions I'm sorry, and then we'll put this initiative to the vote. Here you go, Mr. Brk.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4944	I thank you, I would only repeat the question that we had a few sessions ago here from a discussion that came up, my and Mr. Čengić, the State Border Service, what she did and what there has been no answer to what she's been doing for the past five years with over 400 of those border crossings, which are not under control, and what should they do to get it in order already?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4945	Please, I have a vague thing. Is that a urination response or is that a new question? 8
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4946	It's urination to get an answer. There's been no answer for months.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4947	So, he's urnizing Mr. Brka to send him an answer to a parliamentary question he asked five or six months ago, right? Four months ago, I'm sorry. Thank you very much. So, are there any more parliamentary questions? There isn't. Thank you very much. So we've exhausted it, now we're going to put Mr. Halid Genjac's initiative to vote. There's no need for Mr. Halid Genjac to repeat what he said now, but everything's accepted in the stenogram and so I put it to the vote. Who's in favour of Mr. Halid Genjac's initiative? Who's in? Vote, please. Rose, is there something unclear?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4948	I would just, by intervention, have been a part of the agenda of parliamentary questions and answers, but this would still belong to another point.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4949	And initiatives
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4950	And the initiative is whether or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4951	At the same time, questions and, please, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Initiative. It doesn't matter, come on, I'm sure. Who's in? So we almost voted, you forgot about the Goren to vote. Did I forget? So we voted unanimously. Thank you very much. So we accepted Mr. Halid Genjac's initiative. Thank you very much. The second item of the agenda is Ad2. The adoption of the minutes of the 47th and 48th session of the House of Peoples If anyone hears from us and if we have any objections to the minutes. First we treat the 47th session minutes. Any objections? Thank you very much, no. 9 Do we adopt the record? Who's for the record with the 47th session of the House of Peoples. Please shine now. Thank you very much. The record was unanimously adopted. The 47th-session record was unanimously adopted. So now we're going to vote on the record at the 48th session. Any objections to the record? Thank you, I can see that there isn't. I'm putting the record to a vote at the 48th session. Please vote now. So the minutes from this session were adopted unanimously. Thank you very much. Moving to the third item of the agenda, Add.3. Confirmation of the BiH Presidency's decision to determine candidates for the general position in Republika Srpska pursuant to Article 37. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's defence law confirms appointments as head of staff, deputy commander of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and deputy commander of the Operational Command and all officers with the rank of generals in the Armed Forces of BiH. The House of Representatives confirmed the BiH presidency's decision to determine the candidate for the Republika Srpska General's post in the army of Republika Srpska, which made Colonel Dragan Vuković a candidate for Chief of Staff of the Republika Srpska Army. Is anyone picking up? Mr. Limov,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4952	Dear Mr. President, I will not speak of the candidate, of course, I have no dilemmas about it, but I do have a dilemma since the decision is based on an article by the old BiH Defence Act. In fact, when I tell the old man, I mean that 2003 law, and we have a new law, and according to that new law, practically 31.12. ceases to exist, and I see that this decision was signed by the Presidency on 5 October. I'd like you to explain this situation to me, since the prime minister is here. So, not questioning at all the candidates but simply explaining what the purpose of this activity is?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4953	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4954	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I expected you to call me otherwise because the decision provided that we, before Parliament, have to explain these motions of decisions but here, Mr Limov initiated this. 10 I, of course, welcome the gentleman chairing all the members of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and I would like to say a few words about this decision and, of course, to try to explain to Mr Limov the situation in which we have found ourselves. So, as you know what Mr. Chairman said, Parliament's House of Representatives at its 69th session, held on 25.10. confirmed the Presidency's decision to appoint Colonel Vuković as RS Army Chief of Staff. The explanation is that the Department of Defense is 27.9. The presidency was submitted with a proposal to place Colonel Dragan Vuković on the post of head of the RS General Staff and produce the rank of Brigadier General, which took place after the High Representative replaced General Đukić, who acted on the post until then. So that place was empty. The basis for this decision is also the existing BiH Defence Act, which has been in place since December 2003, because the new Defence Act, regardless of all procedures, has not yet entered into force until it is published in the Official Messenger of BiH, and after that, it is envisaged that the implementation of the new law is only started since 1.1.2006, in accordance with the legal provisions. So by 31.12., we're going under the current law. Furthermore, they were agreed by EUFOR and NATO Chiefs of Staff Sarajevo on 19.9.2005. Based on the BiH presidency's decision to serve generals in the Armed Forces No 011367-8/04 of 1.9.04, the defence ministry has proposed that, and the decision deals with the schedule of general positions. So the Ministry of Defence has proposed that the appointed award be a functional act of the Major General because it is placed in the position as such a functional act is intended. At the 80th session, the BiH presidency discussed the proposal and submitted the text of the Decision to the Parliamentary Assembly for confirmation. The decision was accompanied by the consent of the EUFOR and NATO headquarters. In this regard, I propose that the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH confirm the decision of the BiH Presidency, which places Colonel Dragan Vuković on the post of Chief of Staff of the RS Army and products in the rank of the Brigadier General. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4955	Thank you very much, Mr. Bečirbašić. Mr. Hilmo Neimarlija answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4956	The chairman, fellow delegates, guests, I have a question that is not related to the candidate, nor to the act itself, but to an act to translate the acts from EUFOR and NATO commands that we have received and which, by my understanding, as language practices in BiH, is not in any of the languages spoken in BiH. So I'm curious, whose translation this is if it's officially directed to us. The translation of the EUFOR and NATO acts of the Command and I also recommend that they translate such acts in the future and we get in the languages in which we speak and who are here whether, officially.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4957	Thank you, Mr. Neimarlija. Minister, I'm about this translation is you, 11
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4958	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. And, Mr. Neimarlija, I can only tell you that we are submitting documents originally received from the EUFOR and NATO Command. So that's what their translators did, and we don't have the need or the right to have their documents that we get in English and in one of the languages that we sometimes use this language, it leaves the impression that it's done in a mixed language, it's not purely Bosnian or Serbian or Croatian, and that's the thing of their translators that we don't control in principle.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4959	Does that mean we don't understand these documents if they're not in our language?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4960	I don't think I'm being asked this question because I don't want to answer it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4961	That's one question that's so very painful. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4962	Well, of course, we expect neither the ministry nor the deputy minister to treat the translations that come in and out, we have completed the check by Colonel Vuković, who is not of course, in any of the languages spoken in BiH. But we expect the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to therefore report to me, and this home warns EUFOR and NATO Command Sarajevo, to translate which, according to the official correspondence in BiH, happens and goes from EUFOR headquarters to expect to be in the languages spoken in BiH. Just that, and I suggest we give a kind of warning to the Command and say, please language correspondence official that happens in the languages spoken in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4963	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Here, Mr. Goran Milojević will try to solve this dilemma.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4964	I welcome the esteemed colleagues of the chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, very briefly this one, and I agree that this is not in any of the languages spoken in BiH or is in any of the languages but is not written in a letter of this, it is not written in a Cyrillic letter and I will remind my colleague Genjac that according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, an excuse is an Ekvak and an equidistant excuse in part of BiH, which is called RS, but is not in a Cyrillic letter. I'm not about to warn them that we're writing to NATO this, that we're warning them about this because I think that we all understand this essentially, and I don't think there's any need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4965	Thank you very much. I mean this, Mr. Filipović, 12
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4966	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So now I'm offered this, this debate over the tongue, about the equary, about the evasive, about the Cyrillic. So, I don't mind at all what language he uses with the official English NATO notifying Parliament, especially as it is the official language of one, therefore, of the sovereign people in BiH, so it's written with the equakat. But I do mind that, in the same way, we do not advocate in this House that here next to the Cyrillic, next to the Latin, we do not have a presence. So we're breaking in Parliament, so one constituent people sitting here, uh, on this one I don't know what to call it, so is that it?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4967	Display
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4968	Display. So there's no Croatian language, and that doesn't bother anyone. I am now concerned that I am more concerned about this than how NATO wrote a letter to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4969	Thank you, Mr. Filipović. So, you always care about language and you always care about everything. I would, this one, suggest, I will propose, regardless of any shortcomings in all this, I will propose this to Parliament on our assembly, to accept the Presidency's decision to determine candidates for the general position in the RS Army, or Dragan Vuković, or the Colonel, or General. Who's in favour of voting? Here, vote, thank you. Thank you very much, the Presidency's decision was unanimously adopted by me. Thank you very much. We'll move to the fourth item of the agenda with one note so we don't forget that we agreed to go faster in this session, to finish this as soon as possible. It's fourth, Add.4. The Commission's report to the Nationals' College on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of the delegate Hasan Čengić and on the proposal for a law on the defence of BiH The report of the Commission from the College of the House of Peoples has been received. The Commission has not reached agreement. Now in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples are voted in the second round. Under Article 60, the decision to be adopted shall not be taken by an entity of two-thirds or more votes against. We have to be here now. We only plead first on entities. First, delegates from the RS vote and please vote on this proposal. Now, so the conclusion hasn't been adopted. 13 Therefore there is no need for us to vote this conclusion will not be adopted even if these others adopt it now, and if we vote for that conclusion. So, Mr Hasan Čengić's conclusion was not adopted. Fifth point, Ad.5. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider BiH's proposal for an emergency pardon in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples shall be held to discuss whether the law will be considered by a brief procedure. The House of Representatives has adopted a proposal for the draft law to be considered under a shortened procedure. Is anyone picking up? We don't have any debates. Does the Commission have any? No need for the Commission. This is a procedure, not a commission. Who is for the law to be considered under Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Please vote now. So, unanimously all for. Therefore, the requirement for the law to be considered under the shortened procedure was adopted. The sixth item of the agenda, Ad.6. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for reviewing the proposal for a law on the implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of Development, Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons and on their destruction under an emergency procedure is also under discussion whether the law will be considered under a shortened procedure, a pardon for the shortened procedure, the House of Representatives adopted a motion for the Privilege to be considered under the shortened procedure. I'm putting this request under discussion. Do we have a debate? We don't. Who is it that the request is considered by a shortened procedure? Please vote now. So we unanimously adopted this request. The seventh item of the agenda is Ad.7. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Directorate for indirect taxation under an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House are being debated whether the law will be discussed under a shortened procedure, the House of Representatives also adopted a proposal. I'm making a request for a hearing. 14 Do we have any debaters? We don't. Thank you very much. Please vote now. So unanimously, the requirement for the law to be considered by a shortened procedure has been adopted. The eighth item of the agenda, Add.8. Proposal for a Law on Public TV Service BiH, This is the second reading of the law. The people's home passed this law in the first reading with the conclusion that the amendment phase should be extended. You received the law as a report from the committee responsible. The Commission adopted 16 amendments that became an integral part of the text of the law. The House of Representatives passed the law at its 45th session held on 12 October 2004 with 19 amendments, 2005 with 19 amendments. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? The new amendments were submitted by Velimir Jukić and Mr Anto Spajić. So let's get to the point first about the amendments. You have amendments in front of you. So, this amendment and is it so, Mr. Jukić, it's no problem don't Bog,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4970	I expected first a report from the Commission, but here, I don't know why it wasn't presented even though we got it. So, a year ago, more procedures began in Parliament to adopt the Law on TV Service and the RTV system of BiH. I'm not gonna repeat what happened, you all know. So, the House of Representatives was adopted by the Law on TV Service, and the TV system was not adopted, so the Zakonn on the TV system went to work, so it went back to something recast but in fact very similar in fact almost the same, by the Council of Ministers again in parliamentary procedure. He was adopted in the House of Representatives. In the House of Nature, the Croatian People's Club felt that the solutions in the law were harmful to the vital interest of the Croatian people so it was called for vital interest, the Constitutional Court assessed it, as it assessed and now we have come to the adoption of the Law on Public TV Service established by the Law on the TV System. So this is where we acted, which is very rational and logical. So even though the Law had already been passed in the House of Representatives a year ago, about the TV service, it could not be implemented, of course, and there was no need or purpose for the House of Nations to do the same. Therefore, only after the adoption of the Law on the TV system have conditions been created to also discuss the Law of the TV Service. The solutions in this law on tv service are known to everyone. There have been a lot of amendments and I'm just going to look back at those solutions that I don't think are good, or that they're bad and that we're through our amendments as a club and then we're going to renovate them, so we're going to try to say one more time here, or I'm going to say what I think about these solutions. Although what really matters most, it's about organizing, establishing a channel in the languages of the constituent peoples in tv services. As it didn't go through, in the Law on the TV System, it seems to me that it's a small stand to pass that in the Law on the TV Service. But I'll do it one more time, very briefly just repeat what's most important. 15 I believe that this solution provided for here is not good and that it does not ensure the implementation of those principles contained in Article 26. The law on the tv system. And there is talk of equal or proportionate use and use of language and letter but also of content that is interesting or characteristic for all three constituent peoples in BiH but also for others. Since the amendment which applies specifically in this law, therefore to Article 9 did not receive the necessary majority in the competent commission, we have renewed it and it is just predicting such a solution. So, within the framework of the TV service of BiH, the production and broadcasting of the programme on three channels or, in the languages of the constituent peoples, with all the contents I mentioned in advance. Namely, as much as anyone here thinks that this is my or our insistence on implementing such solutions they think it doesn't matter or matter, etc., I will warn you of the great importance of this issue and the fact that, that the Law on the TV system has been passed without any Croatian vote, without any raised hands of any Hrvat representative. It can be commented by someone in any way, I don't know either, so it's used by the argument of the number of votes or I don't know what, the hand etc., but it remains a fact. That is a fact, and I believe that all well-intentioned concerns should be encouraged to seek a solution. It's not good to be, I'm going to say here what I think, which is to impose solutions against the will of a nation. Last time I said I would not comment, today I will refrain from commenting again on the BiH Constitutional Court's ruling or decision but the fact that this is happening and I'm afraid it will happen in this law, I should certainly warn and perhaps today that people are still a little wider in their thinking, thinking and supporting these amendments. Then I think that a significant part of the bad part of that TV system bill could be fixed. Otherwise, I am afraid that we will also get the Law on the RTV Service of BiH which will not, I repeat, will not ensure the realisation of those most important or very important principles, which is to be legally framed, to ensure that the real and legal equality of the constituent peoples is proportionate to the content of the programmes and languages of all peoples. The best way and form I've already said, is three channels in the languages of the constituent peoples. In this solution, there are other bad solutions in this law. But they're just as bad for everyone, so I wouldn't comment on them, and I'm just going to focus on here and problem this solution. Our request is fully consistent, therefore our request through these amendments, fully consistent with many here before quoted, so I will not quote them, recommendations and directives of the Council of Europe, the EU can also say some 748 and 1505, etc. But that wasn't enough, either, but it's always said, it's not good, it's too expensive, etc. Here, these are mine in the shortest explanation and thought. The amendment is offered, it's very clear. It is, therefore, on the trail and meets those programmed principles of equal rights of the people. I think they're best realized in a given case in this way. Anything else, I will repeat everything else leaves space to continue to work in public rtv services, now I am speaking specifically about the Public TV service of BiH in the present way, which is to neglect one language or letter or specificity or culture of one, another or third constitutive people, which is bad for the future because it is not good that one people can, or I don't know, be even more numerous than another, be unhappy. And everyone who thinks about building their pleasure on the dissatisfaction of others thinks they're doing the wrong thing and I don't think it's a good way to solve the question for the future. 16 Of course, while I'm saying this, I'm aware of the fact that one of the 16 requests that we have long commented here, by the European Commission, to adopt the law, therefore form a public TV system, so also services. However, as happy as I am about the fact that we are likely to get a green light quickly to start negotiations on a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU, I am not at all satisfied and can't be satisfied that this is happening in this way, in a way that I would say here not only will, but also the fundamental economic rights of a nation. Living in the belief that something better will happen in the entity parliaments, that the public services they will decide on and therefore edit them entity parliaments, I don't think it's realistic because they should be a role model or a visual copy or a solution that we will offer here and bring through the Law on RTV Service of BiH. And I'm going to say, now with these solutions, we're going to be a bad example and a bad example of them, and I don't know how much we can expect them to be from us here, I'd say maybe a little bit more responsible and then solve it in a more quality way, so respecting these principles that are very consistent and very clearly looked at and promoted through our amendments. Here in the end, I call on my colleagues from the other two clubs to be truly principled, but this time principled on the basic, most important fundamental principles of our constitution and otherwise the economic rights of people and entities, to be equal in rights and to support these amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4971	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Jukić. Mr. Limov answered his word. Here you go, Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4972	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I certainly don't need to repeat what I said last year about this law, but I appreciate, given what's been going on over the past year, first of all, with regard to the procedure and the method of arrival, to that law that we have absorbed at one of the previous sessions, and certainly he is along with this law one package, so I appreciate that I should say a few words or one of my visions. I must say that I belong to that group of people in BiH who, when we are on the occasion of passing a law that rhymes us with that goal, which is the accession of developed European countries, I am always particularly looking forward to when we take such a step and therefore I am saddened by the situation in which with a certain excessive dose of bitterness we come up with certain solutions that actually identify themselves with what it means to meet our conditions. I think, first of all, it's important that when we bring in appropriate legal projects, we should take care of the interests of ourselves. Otherwise, I think the way we passed the Law on the TV system is the right formula for killing BiH and I think the worst number we have is the number 3 and all the variants of 2:1 when we come to certain laws are very, very dangerous for us in BiH. But what is there is, apparently, is that the biggest amount of bitterness has been passed at that session, I expect and want to pass the Law on Public TV service today, and I believe that the moment it happens in practice that 4 people make a decision on behalf of the 17 Governing Council, when they are the same nationality, that we will remember at that moment those remarks that we had and when we were making the Law on the TV system. But well, I also don't belong to that group of people who think that the amendments that have been respected by colleagues Jukić and Sapjić, who have again, so I don't think that this amendment thing can be fixed in a way that we can be satisfied with, which is more clearly what counterpart Jukić was talking about, and through numerical indicators, it doesn't have to mean in practice what we really want or better say, what the Constitution says, and as regards equal representation among employees in the Public TV service, etc. Generally, this law needs to be passed by three important elements. So in its construction we have to have three important elements recognized. This is, firstly, independence from politics, in other words, the depoliticalization of professionals in the Public TV service, then serving citizens, which would go along with professionalism and financial independence from the state, which would come through a tax on whether, i.e. as a form of self-financing of the Public Service. And in this respect, we can find a foothold with the removal of what I would call one dissatisfaction and with the understanding of the people who deal with politics that this is primarily an art and that it is primarily the obligation of those who participate in the process of adopting appropriate legal solutions that they themselves are willing to act in accordance with these legal solutions, even if at a given time they were in favour, against or were abstention. This implies, therefore, that all of us who are in this Parliament, and even in other BiH institutions, cannot do this, have one double behaviour in this sense and I say, I do not belong to that group of people who are willing to invite people not to comply with the laws, because I am against certain solutions. In this particular case, I cannot support this amendment, of course, but I support the commitment that we come to the Law on Public TV Service of BiH today and, of course, I hope nothing is sacred, so that nothing will change and I expect for sure that life practice will lead us to certain experiences of other countries and I am most sorry that those who created this law, are not simple, that they went to the mechanical merger of the existing, which is the usual model, why they did not apply some of the models that work in Europe that we are aiming for. But alive and seen, very soon we will be faced with certain problems that arise from the fact that we are doing this this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4973	Thank you, Mr. Limov. I hear Mr Filipović answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4974	Thank you very much for your word. I didn't mean to, I doubted whether or not I'd answer my word. But I have to, because of Mr. Limov, my colleague from my club. So none of the Hrvat officially invited BiH Hrvat in any body not to pay their legally prescribed obligation. So that's what I have to say right now. It is definitely and finally, a personal matter of perception and experience of the overall events of all these procedures and the debate on certain 18 issues which we in the official bodies of this country consider to be questions of vital national interest to our people. We are pleased to meet the views of those of us who advocate it with the population, therefore, with the group, so with one sovereign nation in this country where we belong. So that means that we are not wrong in our articulation of problems in this home. I would not repeat what my colleague Jukić was saying, but there have been a lot of speeches in the past year or more, here on this issue, and we have hardly said everything we should have said to convince those we can't, unfortunately, that in this law, therefore in this Parliament and in the institutions of this state that we, like the other two constituent peoples, form nations, sovereign peoples are breaking the fundamental human rights of the Croatian people. We've already said that this Hrvat law is harmful. We've elaborirati it through the Constitutional Court in the way this house was informed, we've read the complete lab. So, we believe that the inconsistencies of European standards in this law and in the System Law are inconsistencies because we cannot discuss the Seervis Act and not talk about the System Law, since it is one package, since the Service Act originates in the System Law. We warned of breach of the constitutional provisions of Article 2. The BiH Constitution on Fundamental Human Rights and Annex I, Annex IV, and a series of other international legal acts we have been calling upon, I would not now take up your time. It's particularly worrying, I would say, that here is the sudden constant insistence of meeting this 16th condition in order to begin negotiations on a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and we are both soul and heart for that day and that act, but not through our backs and not through our fundamental rights. This is a very bad message ahead of the opening of Stabilisation and Association Agreement negotiations, as we have a long time to negotiate the agreement until we arrive and knock on the door of the EU and start negotiations on the EU accession process. So that's something we all worry about in BiH. So, fundamental human rights aside, but that goal needs to be achieved and it needs to be met at all costs in November, so before December, when a term is expected, to meet these conditions this, therefore, and to get all these 16 conditions. We've seen that in that one, it's not in line for the 15th, but it's very important about the police, it's also been a terrible rush, they've given a number of concessions to certain things just to satisfy, so please form. We are not at all talking about the content of our path to the EU. I would like it very much if we were all very happy on this road together and without any strain, without any grudges, without any reserves going forward with the processes of BiH's European integration. That's one question. The second question is, we're talking about broadcasters here, so public broadcasters in BiH. I must observe here, therefore, there has been a gray house on Alipasha's field these days in great pains, in enormous dubious materially, in terrible problems formed, the union has risen, no wages received, etc. At the same time, it is heard that these are parliamentary processes and not the adoption of the System and Service Act and the reason for this material and financial dubiosis, which is why I am truly sorry to tell you. I think that gentlemen from public broadcasters should have followed the whole course of the debate on this law, participated in the best way, so with a lot of open shows, conducted dialogue with citizens and with those who decide on this law. Dkall, if it were to come to the most qualitative solutions, then surely we wouldn't be this one, with the flat grades and the evaluations, we've heard them in public broadcasters' shows as well, the cause of these problems and these problems, and in the absence of that law. 19 So I argue, here I argue very responsibly, given how the proposal for a system law and the proposal for a service law, that the broadcasters will be in even greater trouble. It is not a problem with this bad law but rather a problem with the irresponsibility of public broadcaster founders, in the irresponsibility of public broadcasters' administrative bodies, in the irresponsibility of management and inability of management to keep these public broadcasters on their good feet. This law today and that system we adopted and this one springs from it, so it's full of fellers. So what's the big deal? Well, a fundamental flaw, the way public broadcasters are scheduled to finance. From a fee of 50% to BHT, by 25% broadcasters in entities and from advertising, you have seen how regulated the article makes up the 23rd round of marketing. I'm asking a question now, isn't it logical to have one emitter in three official languages in BiH and have in one place this, what are called financial sources or sources of income for these broadcasters, have it all in one broadcaster, have total marketing income in one broadcaster and cover the production needs of production, wages and other obligations, so it wouldn't happen that they say no salaries, can't the children of employees, please which thing, and no one responds to it, I haven't at least noticed, I can't go to a doctor because they haven't paid the contributions this, public broadcasters don't pay a contribution to the state. You know, they don't pay and they can't pay, so they can't pay, they can't pay the doctor, so the question is, what's going on in the public broadcaster system of Bosnia and Herzegovina at all. I think that with all that we've heard, so we wouldn't repeat all the harmfulities of these legal provisions that we're going to have, which the Council of Ministers will have to implement, so other bodies within the emitter, that we will have even greater dissatisfaction because of the enormous debt, due to the lack of care of the administrative bodies, because of the poor, I would say, poor management that simply doesn't use all of them, all the instruments to keep public broadcasters alive and healthy with normal incomes and to carry out all other obligations. I am sorry that something will happen here today in our home that Mr. Jukić spoke about, so I do not repeat, that in a series of all debates and decisions on this law will be decided today without votes, therefore, and without the will of the Croatian people in the House of Peoples. I am very sorry, it is a very bad practice, and if we are to build and bring and coordinate legislation with the EU legislator and on some other issues, then our path to this European society in the EU is poor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4975	We heard Mr. Filipović. Are there any more reported for discussion? So there isn't. So now I should vote on this amendment. I am now putting the amendment to the vote and please vote now. So here we see even further, so the amendment didn't go a total of 4 for, 5 against, 2 abstentions and the amendment didn't go through. Thank you very much. We are now voting on the law and I am putting forward a proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public TV Service. Who's in favor of this bill? Please vote now. So a total of 8 for, 4 against, 1 abstention and the Law was passed. 20 Please, since this law has been adopted in this text, in fact the House of Representatives and our home have passed the law in different texts, we must now choose a committee to comply with the law. Do you have any suggestions from the Bosniak, the Bosniak People's Club? I suggest that you be in front of the Bosniak Club, I suggest Mr. Halid Genjac. In front of the Croatian people, please suggest someone. So in front of the Croatian people, Mr Velimir Jukić was proposed. Please in front of the Serbian People's Club, please make a suggestion. They hurt.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4976	Mr. Vinko Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4977	So in front of the Serbian delegates' club, Vinko Radovanović was proposed. If we adopt these suggestions. Who's for please vote now. Please, we'll repeat the vote. There's been some kind of feller. Repeat the vote. feler's made. We vote for the commission. Say it again. Please vote now. Here you go. So a total of 10 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. This proposal has been adopted. Please my request will be to my colleagues from the commission that, I think, the 8th session of the House of Representatives and that everyone, they appointed members of the commission and that certainly the session of that commission should be before that home and then whether when you agree to the homes only adopt it and when you agree the law has absolutely passed, there is therefore no further discussion. The formal thing is that Dom votes on your conclusion. Thank you very much. The ninth item of the agenda is Ad.9. Proposal for a law on the basis of road safety in BiH (first reading) Here we have seen, was the minister, or assistant, deputy minister, but here there is a Mr. Assistant Minister. I don't know if there's any need to speak to us. Yeah. I don't think we're going to bother. Like this. You've received a consolidated text of the Law with integrated amendments. The Commission, as well as a report from the committee responsible, adopted 93 amendments that have become an integral part of the text of this law. The House of Representatives adopted both readings of this law with 80 amendments. This is the first law reading. First there is a debate on the necessary and principles on which the law is established. So we're talking about first reading. 21 I open the debate, and please, is anyone answering for a word? There's no one here. Who is it, please let us vote for the law in the first reading? Vote now. We'll see when we vote. There's quorum, there's three Croats, there's three of you, there's three of you. So, what?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4978	No Velimir registered, and he voted. It was a vote I saw.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4979	So please be kind. I'm asking you to repeat the vote. He's got some kind of feller. Vote now. Okay. Well, Velimir must be pushing a little fast. Thank you very much. Here it is, a total vote of 10, unanimous. Thank you very much. I suggest we hold a discussion at today's session in a second reading. Please, who's so we can go to another reading? Vote now. Thank you very much. What now? Some mistakes again. So I say now. Every time I say it now. No matter how many people get caught. Come on, please. Someone's in a hurry. You have to, don't be so hasty. Say it again. I'd like to ask you to vote on who's to discuss the law in the second reading. Vote now. Sometimes there's something wrong with the device. So unanimous. We're going to the law in a second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. The new amendments to the bill were submitted by Osman Brka and three amendments. Is anyone answering for a discussion? Mr. Osman brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4980	I thank you and apologize for taking your time. I've actually invested two amendments. It's the third technical nature, if these are adopted. Namely, I have proposed an amendment to Article 172 on point 2 where I suggested that the number “03” be changed and read as “00”. Statistics on road accidents in Bosnia and Herzegovina suggest their most common cause is speed and alcohol. If the minimum blood limit is determined to 0.3, then the given driver is given the opportunity to assess on his own whether, despite previous consumption, alcohol is capable of continuing driving or not. Very often with fatal protégés. 22 To justify this today, I have asked our research centre and I thank him and especially researcher Elmi Demir who prepared me for today's session of this traffic analysis on the roads to Bosnia and Herzegovina and throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. I will do this, although I doubt I can change anything and say something about attitudes, but I will take advantage of the possibility of showing you statistical data from Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory about traffic accidents, the consequences of how much it is in the Federation and how much it is in Republika Srpska, because I got data from all over the space. Here's what happened in the last year, this is for the Federation. 18,015 car accidents. In these car accidents, 122 people died and 722 people were seriously injured. In total, there were car accidents with the consequences of the death of 122 and there were 138 deaths. So there were more dead than just the number of car accidents in which there were dead. So it was in some car accident and two and three dead. Furthermore, the biggest cause is the unadjusted speed and second place the influence of alcohol. Directly because of the influence of alcohol here, it says that four people were killed. The number of car accidents with consequences, so it's for the Federation for that period. Now what about, what did the police find on the way to the Federation during that period? That she controlled 1,436,664 controlled vehicles during that period and found that 11,920 people were under the influence of alcohol. That's 12,000 drivers with the influence of alcohol. Furthermore, there were 212 car accidents with fatalities with a total of 247 deaths, according to the category and characteristics of the road for 1 December 2004. Of which, directly because of the influence of alcohol, 19 were killed, and in Republika Srpska, there was only one more figure of the number of drivers found for drunk management in that period in the Federation was 13.3.79. Now these are data from Republika Srpska in the past year in which 10,755 car accidents occurred compared to 2003 more by 5.4%. There has been a certain improvement in the security situation on the roads, which has also contributed to increased activity in the field of work. In these car accidents, 173 people died. Of which died, 7.3 were drivers or 38%, the passenger was 50 or 26%, on foot 45 or 23.5%, cyclists 13 or 6.8%, motorcyclists and others. Furthermore, the dead person means in 173 accidents where there were fatalities there were 202 deaths. From what I believe, here the data is that 6.6% were killed, meaning something like 14 to 15 people directly because of alcohol. Traffic excluded 14.692 drivers from driving under the influence of alcohol. Statistical data on road safety and traffic for January-September 2005 killed 126 people in Republika Srpska's space. The traffic excluded 14136 drivers, again because of alcohol and these are the basic indicators, and this is one material that is very useful to me if we had God's good press to give out good and people's days of information about these events would be a completely different situation as far as it goes. But I didn't just settle for taking data from Bosnia and Herzegovina, I was looking for data and what's actually going on in Europe. What is the situation in Europe, so I will tell you that in Europe in the following countries there is 0% alcohol in Estonia, Croatia and Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Hungary. 0.2% of alcohol is in Poland, Norway and Sweden. 23 And I'll finish with the next one. That second amendment of mine that applies to punishments, the penalties in us are drastically mildly foreseen in this law. And I'm really sorry about that, too, and that's why I filed that amendment. Let me tell you what the penalties are like in Europe. Now let me tell you what the penalties are like in Europe. In Switzerland, if it is allowed, and in them 0.5 as it has been with us so far, if that border is crossed, the fine is 3000 euros.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4981	What's their salary?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4982	No, it's the same death in Switzerland and here, I'm not talking about pay. I'm talking about the consequences. The result is a dead man on the way. That's what I'm talking about. I'm not talking about pay at all. In Poland, 0.2% is allowed in them. If it is more, if it crosses something, the fine is 1200 euros in the term. In Norway it's 0.2, if you cross the fine it's, this is interesting 45 diaries a column a man has a salary, 45 diaries gives for fines. In Sweden 0.2% if it passes, 30 daily bills are fined. So we're not you, and I think I'm putting myself in a position to invent hot water. This is what the others did. We have in law left and fined fines. I can't vote for such a law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4983	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4984	I didn't finish Mr. Mustafa. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4985	I'm sorry. I thought you were done.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4986	I'm sorry, I'm not finished, don't do me that way... I really think we have to be responsible people, and if we could just save one human life, we have reason to vote for no alcohol in the blood. And according to this data, we're dying of alcohol for almost 50 people a year. That can be calculated exactly. Now imagine if someone killed us because he's in an alcoholic state, one of our own, they'd think differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4987	We heard Mr. Osman Brk, but he doesn't even know what the measure is to drink. Do we have any more people on the table to discuss? We don't. So we're voting for this first Osman amendment now? So who's in favor of Osman's amendment to the Burke Amendment being accepted? Please vote now. The amendment didn't go through, four voted in, seven against. Amendment, Mr. Brk's first amendment didn't go through. 24 amandman ii, from the member, who is for this amendment II? Vote now, please. So a total of 3 for, 6 against, 2 abstentions. The amendment didn't go through either. And we have Amendment III. So you're withdrawing the third amendment. Is it Osmane? Thank you very much, Mr. brkati. Now we're voting on the law and I'm asking you who's in favor of passing the law? Please vote now. So a total of 11 for, 1 against, no one abstention. The traffic law has been passed. Given that we have a difference from what was adopted in the House of Representatives, we propose, please, that we propose members of the Commission. The Bosniak candidate will be, I suggest Mr. Hilmo Genjac, this Neimarlija. Let's move on, Croatian candidate. Please, Croatian candidate. The Croatian candidate for the committee for the alignment of this traffic law is Mr. Jukić. Mr. Velimir Jukić. A candidate from the Serbian MPs' club.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4988	Mrs. Ruža Stojanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4989	Mrs. Ruža Stojanović. And we got members. Please let us vote for this committee. Who's to vote now? - Did we choose that? So 10 for, no one against, 2 abstentions. The Commission is therefore adopted. The tenth item of the agenda, as agreed, is Ad.10. Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law, first reading, you received the law as well as a report from the committee responsible. The Commission accepts the text of the draft law in the proposed text. The House of Representatives passed the Law in the first and second readings in the proposed text. This is the first reading of the Law, the 99th article is the first debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is based. Is anyone picking up? No, I don't. Thank you very much. 25 I put the law to the vote in the first reading. Please vote, who is it for now? - 11 for, nothing against, one abstention. The law in the first reading passed. I propose that today's session be discussed both in the Law and in the second reading. Who's in order to go to another reading? Please vote now. So 11 for, no one against, 1 abstention. So we're going to another reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. There was no new amendment to the draft law on new amendments to the bill. Is the nobody answering their word? Nobody's answering. We're voting on the law. Please, who's in favour of adopting the proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law? Vote now. - Ten means unanimous. The law was adopted in the same text as the House of Representatives. Thank you, colleagues. Ad.11. Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the establishment of a complex of buildings and land for the accommodation of BiH institutions, on their status, conditions and method of use of the Commission for Financial and Administrative Affairs of the House of Peoples and the Administrative Commission of the House of Representatives from the Proposal for a Decision on the establishment of a complex of BiH buildings and land for the accommodation of the BiH Institute on their status and method of use. In the proposed text, the House of Representatives adopted a decision on the establishment of a complex of buildings and land for accommodation, etc. Please, the Commission. Rose.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4990	I welcome the esteemed presidency, the esteemed colleagues and the gentleman present. The Commission for Finance and Administrative Affairs of the People's House and the Administrative Commission of the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina is on 11. The Joint Committee also examined the proposal for this Decision in accordance with Rule 76 of the Rules of Procedure. At home to the people of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina set out a proposal for this decision. The reasons for making and considering this decision are essentially the fact that so far the resolution of building management has not produced adequate results, especially when it comes to the implementation of Article 5 of that Decision. I don't think a broader explanation on this matter is necessary. You know how many times there have been interventions in a member by the delegates of this house 26 on working conditions, about here we've almost had a problem with heating, we've also had a delegate question about this front door, the elevator question. The joint board on administrative affairs believes that management of this building should take over the Parliamentary Assembly as is essentially the owner, and until the day of the conditions for the other institutions to move to another building to use this space. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4991	Thank you very much. We heard the President of the Commission. Any objections? I'm putting a decision to be adopted. Please vote who is so far? You can also vote who's against, but you shouldn't, because of ruža. So we unanimously accepted the decision. Proposal for a decision to establish the building complex. That's what we adopted. The 12th point of the agenda. That's the deal now. We'll go fast. Ad.12. Giving consent to the ratification of the defence co-operation agreement between the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro You have received a report from the competent commission. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this agreement. I'm opening the debate. No one's answering for a discussion. Please vote now. They don't hurt. There's gonna be peace in these places. You're not gonna have anything to do. Thank you very much. So a total of 11 for, no one against, no one abstention. So this consent, ratification was adopted unanimously. Thirteenth agenda, Add.13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Belarus on the promotion and protection of investments The report of the competent commission you received. The House of Representatives ratified this agreement. I'm putting it on. Is there a debate? Are there any debaters? There isn't. I'm putting a ratification agreement on the vote. Please vote now. So, the deal's over. A total of 11 for, against no one, abstentioned no one. Please. So unanimous. 27 A.14. Giving consent to ratification of the Trade Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Belarus You have received a report from the competent commission. The House of Representatives gave consent to ratification, for ratification of the Agreement. I'm opening a debate. Are there any debaters? There isn't. Please vote now. So total, so the agreement is, ratification was adopted unanimously, 12 for, no one against and no one abstention and 15 point, Ad.15. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Spain on the reciprocal abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports You have received a report from the competent commission. He predstavnički his consent to ratify the Agreement. I'm opening a debate. No Niko's answering for the discussion as far as I can tell. Please vote now. - So we also agreed to ratify this agreement unanimously, 12 for, no one against, no one abstention. It's sixteenth, the sixteenth point of the agenda is Ad.16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Fund Grant Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development You have received a report from the committee responsible. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for the discussion? There's no debate. Please vote now. - So this agreement was passed. A total of 11 for, no one against, 1 abstention. Thank you, colleagues. And I will give my word to Mr. Goran Milojević, and he has asked me to speak to the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4992	Dear colleagues, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate all members of the Islamic religion in Bosnia and Herzegovina and especially to my fellow Bošnjak by performing a great festival of Bajram and wish them much happiness, health, to them personally and their families, so to all citizens who respect this holiday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4993	Thank you. I'm up to 28.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4994	Of course, this is a card in front of the Serbian People's Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4995	Thank you. My colleague, Mr. Jukić, is also here. He wants something like that, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4996	Well, here's actually almost the same, explained Mr. President of the club Mr. Spaić, so on behalf of the Croatian People's Club, Bošnjak, or Muslims of Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially our colleagues and other staff of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we would like to congratulate Bajram on the coming words of Bajram Šerif Olsun Olsun.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-31-0.u4997	Allah is doubtful, Mr. Jukić, yes. Thank you dear colleagues, thank you for your congratulations, thank you very, very much. So we were effective. Your Excellency, do you have anything vague? And you... The session was completed at 1:15 p.m.
