ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4635	Dear envoys, honored guests, representatives of public communications funds, I welcome and open the 45th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I ask MPs who have not placed their identification cards in the intended place to determine the quorum. So I find that at today's session there are all 15 delegates, envoys, 5 from the Bosniak order, 5 from the order of the Croatian and 5 from the order of the Serb people. For the 45th session, I suggest the next amended agenda. 1. Answers to envoy questions and envoy questions, 2. The adoption of minutes 43 and 44 of the House of Peoples, 3. Report by the Joint Commission on the efforts of both homes to reach an agreement on the same text of the Foreign Office Act, 4. A request from the House of Representatives for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Control and Control of the Crossing of the State Borders by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 5. The request of the Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law following a hasty procedure pursuant to Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 6. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH following a hasty procedure pursuant to Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, 7. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Procurement of BiH, Proposer of the House of Representatives, 8 / 8 Proposal for a Law on the Transfer of Mediation Jobs to the Association of Mediators, Proposer of the House of Representatives, 9. Proposal for a Code on the Protection of Secret Information, Proposer of the Joint Security Intelligence Commission, 10. Information on the state of BiH's external responsibility in 2004, 11. Information on the state of security in BiH in 2004, 12. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the return of refugees from BiH and the Republic of Croatia, 13. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Russian Federation on International Road Traffic, 14. Giving consent to ratify the eighth amendment to the BiH-US grant treaty for the Reconstruction Financing Programme, the Business Development Programme, 2 15. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Russian Federation on the establishment of an Intergovernmental Bosnian-Russian Trade and Economic Co-operation Commission, 16. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Russian Federation on Trade and Economic Cooperation, 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Credit and Financial Agreement between Creditantstald fur Wiederufbau Frankfurt am Main K/W and Gosna and Herzegovina, the Federation of BiH, Republika Srpska for the rehabilitation of the city waterway in the UN-San region, 18. The Commission's External Trade Policy Initiative at the House of Peoples to take all necessary action to protect the Herzegovician plain as authentic tobacco varieties. As you noted from the proposal you received, we left out some points because the conditions for considering these points were not met. Who's answering for a word? So, the debate on the agenda. There are no reports. I find that this agenda has been adopted. And we're moving on to the realization of the same. First point, Ad.1. Answer the envoy's questions and emissary questions, gospodin Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4636	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President, and Mr. Chairman, the Honorable colleagues and fellow envoys, Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister, I see that you are the only representative of the Council of Ministers, I welcome you. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the international community, and the means of information, I welcome once again all together and I use this opportunity to ask two pairs of next questions. So, of course I ask the Council of Ministers, but I would like to respond, and I hope that they will, consult the relevant entities at entity level, primarily the entity government as well as the appropriate economic chambers, because there will certainly be a need to answer these questions precisely, or at least I expect so. And, because I expect it to be done this way, I don't insist on a business term of 15 days. So it's important that we get the right information. My questions are, First, how many tobacco and tobacco products have been imported in BiH during the period from 1 January to 30 June 2005? Secondly, what is the value of the conversion marks of imported tobacco and tobacco products in the first half of this year? Third, how much tobacco was purchased in tonnes from BiH producers during the period from 1 January to 30 June 2005? And fourthly, how much is in tonnes and what is the value in the conversion marks of the exported tobacco from BiH in the first half of this year? 3 Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4637	I thank Mr. Limov. Who else wants to ask a question? Until someone answers, I will conclude that since our last session, we have not received an answer to any envoy or delegate questions that we have asked. I expect, of course, that the Council of Ministers will be more expedient and that these answers that have not yet been delivered, and there are plenty, will be delivered as soon as possible, even though they have not yet responded within the time limit provided for by our Rules of Procedure on the work of our home. So I don't see any more reports. I then find that we have completed the first item of the agenda, here with a call, so that the Council of Ministers will respond as soon as possible to any outstanding questions, and I will repeat them again, quite recently. That's where we end up with the first point. We're moving on to second point. Ad.2. The adoption of the minutes of the 43rd and 44th sessions of the House of Peoples you have received copies of the minutes from these two sessions. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm sorry I didn't. There's a record. There you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4638	At the 43rd session of the House of Peoples, I asked a question of delegates relating to the conduct of the BiH Justice Ministry's decision on detention or incarcerated at KPD Zenica. Not that I didn't get an answer to that delegate question, but there's not a single letter and number in the record at all. I wouldn't argue at all about why and how it might have happened, but I'm making this observation.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4639	I thank Mrs. Stojanović. So in the text of the record, we don't have a consistent question. I think it is the obligation of the service to fix this, but I am informed that it is still done on request, or that the question went to the relevant address. So it went to the Council of Ministers. There is no answer but here, let the record say that this question is asked and it is a very important part of the session and should certainly be included in the minutes. Any other objections? 43rd session. I call for a statement on the report's statement with this remark to be complemented by Mrs Stojanović's question. Who's in? You can vote now. Thank you. I find that with 14 votes in favour, we have adopted a copy of the minutes of the 43rd session. 4 Let's go to the 44th session, minutes. Any objections to the 44th session's record, any additions? I don't see any reports. I call on us to come forward with the minutes of the 44th session of the House of Peoples. You can vote, go ahead. Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted the minutes from the 44th session of the House of Peoples. That concludes the second item of the agenda. Let's go to third, Ad.3. A report by the Joint Commission on the efforts of both homes to reach an agreement on the same text of the Foreign Affairs Service Act you received the Joint Commission Report. This Regulation shall enter into The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations must be voted on by the Joint Commission's report to both homes. The House of Representatives adopted the Joint Commission Report. Is there a need to refer on behalf of Mr Limov, on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4640	Well, I wouldn't do that for me, but the commission did. I'll be very brief, of course. In oral form, since you received the report in writing, I would like to inform you, of course, with the special satisfaction that the Joint Commission has been working under these summer specific conditions, reached an agreement on the text of the Foreign Service Act, thus creating all business assumptions that we are adopting another important law for BiH today. I ask you on behalf of the Joint Commission to adopt our report. Expecting it to be so, I want to thank you immediately for your support. Congratulations to all the participants of the process we went through to get the law in this form and of course, this way we will take another page in a legitimate sense and therefore ensure institutional strengthening of BiH on its European path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4641	I thank Mr. Limov. We heard, we vote on the Commission's report. You can vote now, please. Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted the Commission's report. As it was previously adopted at the House of Representatives, I find that this act also passed the Law, finally the Law on Foreign Affairs in BiH. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda, 5 Ad.4. Request of the House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Control and Control of the Crossing of State Borders pursuant to the urgency procedure pursuant to Article 100 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, Proposer of the House of Representatives pursuant to Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on the requirement for the Law to be considered in accordance with this article after the debate. Amendments shall not be submitted, this is regulated by Article 100(3). I'm opening the debate. Are there any reports? There isn't. I propose and call for a statement on the requirement for the Law to be considered under Article 100(2). Rules of Procedure. You can vote now. I thank and realize that we have unanimously decided to consider the Law referred to in Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I'm opening a debate. One mistake was made here. So we've solved this request positively, and we're going to move on to the next item of the agenda. I'm sorry, it doesn't mean there was no debate. Now we can't even make amendments, this is where the law is voted. I call on us to make a statement about the law. You can vote now. Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Control and Control of the Crossing of the State Border by a hasty procedure. We're going to the next point, point 5. Ad.5. The request of the Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Law following a hasty procedure pursuant to Article 100 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the People's House in accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure, the House shall decide on a request for the Law to be considered in accordance with this article after the debate. The House of Representatives adopted this law as a matter of urgency. Amendments shall not be submitted in accordance with Article 100(3) of our Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate. Do any of the members of the Commission who worked on this or not? All right, there's no record of a hearing. I call on us to make a statement on the request for consideration of the Law as referred to in Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Who's in? You can vote. Excuse me, not who's in favour, but vote. Thank you. I would like to conclude that we have decided, by majority vote, that we should consider the Law in accordance with Article 100(2). Rules of Procedure. We're discussing the law. Who's calling for a hearing? There are no reports. I call on us to make a statement about the law. 6 You can vote now. Thank you. I agree that most of the votes have adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law. We've reached the sixth item of the agenda, it says, Ad.6. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH, following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the People's House in accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on the requirement for the Law to be considered in accordance with this article after the debate. The House of Representatives adopted this law as a matter of urgency. Amendments shall not be submitted, provision of Article 100(3). I'm opening a debate. Mr. Milojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4642	I'm not going to say anything about the content of this law, but I'm obliged to correct here whether it's a printing error, whether or not I know what kind of mistake it is, but it's repeating itself from a session to a session, from material to material, which is in my opinion, I'm going to think, I can think of it as a random mistake anymore. So when it's written in Cyrillic, we get some nakarada here, and here's the opinion, I don't know now either, I can find more words as much as you want. I warn and ask the authorities who prepare these materials to write according to their spelling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4643	I thank Mr. Milojević. Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4644	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, in this set of requests from the Council of Ministers that we are considering the laws under Article 100 until now, but when it comes to this law, I would like to comment and, of course, this, given that this is not an isolated case, I think it is necessary to point to the fact that several times we will be there and in the future, it is evident, we are in a situation that in one year and two or three times we are making amendments and additions to the law and only because, within the time limit laid down, the executive authority did not do what it had to do. In this particular case, therefore, it is the fact that it did not start working as provided for by the law, the Agency for Public Procurement, or the Office for Consideration of Appeals, failed to start first within 3 months, so now it has failed within 6 months, so whether it takes 9 months etc. Otherwise I think we're one of the few states that has these in their laws, I'd say atypical deadlines. So 3 months, 6 months, I don't know 7, 8 etc. We remember recently that for the appointment of the director of the SIP, we had to make such a deadline that he was really atypical and then the High Representative made 7 appointments. I don't know what the reason is, why this isn't within the framework of the law and in the time the law has laid down, but I'm not personally prepared and I won't support this as we consider it under Article 100. First of all, for no one's fault. So the law breaks, the law sets a deadline, it's not respected, and no one's guilty. So if there was responsibility, then it's in the interest of whether dynamics could talk about it. I expect that in the coming period too, and I think that, as a House, we should commit one serious conclusion to the Council of Ministers to read the laws, to respect these laws, and only exceptionally, when it is not in a situation to respect that, then we need an appropriate explanation of course, and we Parliamentarians will certainly find ways to understand, if something is objective, but we can and remember all a series of laws and a whole series of obligations set out in the law and the Council of Ministers on that plan do not do their job properly. So, esteemed colleagues, I fully understand your obligation to do otherwise, but I will personally be against this kind of work and this relationship between the executive authority and the obligations that we parliamentarians through the adoption of the law determine to this same executive authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4645	I thank Mr. Limov. We heard the explanation of his decision on how to vote. Anyone else want to take part in the debate? No more reports. I call for a statement on the request of the Council of Ministers for consideration of the Law under Article 100(2). Rules of Procedure. You can vote. Thank you. I conclude that with 12 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 2 abstentions, we have decided to consider the law under Article 100(2) of our Rules of Procedure. Now we're discussing the law. I'm opening a debate. Are there any reports? There's no record of a hearing. I call for a statement by voting on the law. You can vote. Thank you. I agree that with 11 votes in favour of, 1 vote against, 2 abstentions, we passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda, Add.7. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Procurement of BiH, Proposer of the House of Representatives, therefore, again the same Law or other Proposer and other amendments. You've received a report from the relevant commission. I'm opening a debate. Is there any need for the relevant commission? If she has Mrs. Stojanović, insulate. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4646	This now refers to a change in this deadline, an extension from 3 months to 6 months. Is that it? I think Mr Limov discussed the proposal proposed by the House of Representatives on the change of only one part because the Commission has a report on this law, on this amendment. Yeah, yeah. And this is this, the law of amendment, is actually a provision just to extend the deadline for the formation of the Agency for Public Procurement and the Office of Appeals from 6 to 9 months to _______________? On 3 Yeah. It is the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4648	Okay, thanks. It was the same subject, so the same law, so it's possible a little replacement. We heard everything, understood. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? There isn't. I call for a statement on the law in the first reading. You can vote. Thank you. I find that most of the votes passed the Law in the first reading unanimously. I suggest we discuss the Law at today's session in a second reading. I'm making this proposal for a plea. You can vote. So we're voting on today's debate in another reading. You can plead now. Thank you. I find that by a majority of votes, with one vote abstention, we have voted against the decision to consider the Law in a second reading. In the second reading for a reminder, there is a debate on amendments and a vote on the law. There were no new amendments. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I call for a statement on the law. You can vote now. Thank you. I agree that with most votes 11 for, 1 abstention, 1 against, 2 abstentions, corrections, we have adopted amendments to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH. Point eight, Ad.8. Proposal for a law on the transfer of mediation jobs to the Mediators' Association, Pre-legislative House 9 You have received a report from the relevant commission. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. Is there a need for a representative of the Commission? There isn't. Mr. Milojević, I apologize. Here you go, Mr. Milojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4649	I'm taking this opportunity to apologize to my fellow delegates, Mr. Chairman, for not getting up during my previous address here, I just got carried away, I thought I was the chairman, so I didn't do it. Well, nothing, I have an observation here just a bar, I can't find an explanation in my materials. I see here only I have a neat meaning of the text of this law, a transfer of mediation to the Mediator's Association, but I have no explanation, so I consider it a failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4650	I thank Mr. Milojević. So, the promoter is the House of Representatives, if that's a failure, then it's their failure. It's here. I think it's the secretary of the committee in charge of the House of Representatives, so if you can explain, go ahead. Here, on behalf of the Proposer,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4651	I'm taking the opportunity to welcome the College and the delegates. I don't know how it happened, if there was this, a slip that the bill went without an explanation, but here in short lines I could verbally give an explanation. The law came about and was proposed as the completion and rounding of the standards of mediation in BiH for the reason that the Mediation Law envisaged that a special law would establish the procedures for the transfer of mediation jobs to the Mediators' Association. For the reason that during the process under the Mediation Act, there was a dilemma whether there was more of this, the Mediator's Association, whether it could create dilemmas in the transfer of these to the Association, and since the Mediation Project is already existing as a pilot project, in several courts in BiH, where it has achieved extremely good results, and above all in Banja Luka's basic court, and here these documents are currently being implemented in the Sarajevo court, this law is a legal assumption that solutions and agreements are being carried out and disputes being settled, through the mediation process, that these documents have the power of executive documents. So this short bill simply decides to transfer the mediation business to the Mediators' Association is being conducted by the BiH Ministry of Justice, this, that the Ministry of Justice has in mind what the mediators' associations are. So far, there is only one Mediator Association registered in BiH. The reasons were that the association also has a membership membership which, in particular, corresponds to the national structure of the BiH population and has data that the members of the mediators' association have passed through a very intensive and quality this one, education both in BiH and abroad, primarily with the support of the Association of Mediators from Canada. So much, if there's any need for any more specific questions. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4652	I thank the secretary, Mr. Zjajić. We heard that the argument was therefore there but we did not get it, and it would be good to get an explanation in the future to have in time more, or all of that information, or the reasons given in the explanation. The debate is open. Is anyone answering for a hearing? There are no reports. I'd like to pray that we stick to the line a little bit and be quiet after all. If we have to communicate at least so we don't interfere with others. There's no record of a hearing. I call for a statement on the law in the first reading. You can vote. Thank you. I find that most of the votes, with one abstention, have passed the Law on the transfer of mediation jobs to the Mediators' Association in the first reading. I suggest we discuss the Law at today's session in a second reading. I'm giving this proposal a statement. You can vote on the proposal now. Thank you. I agree that with 11 votes for, with one abstention, we have adopted a decision to hold today's debate in another reading of the Law in question. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the Law. There was no amendment. I'm opening a debate on the law in the second reading. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I call for a statement on the law. You can vote. Thank you. I find that by a majority of votes with one abstention, we passed the Mediation Business Transfer Act to the Mediator's Association and in the second reading. buduči it was adopted in the same text as the House of Representatives, the Law was finally adopted. Passing point nine of the agenda, Add.9. Proposal for a Code on the Protection of Secret Information, Proposer of the Joint Security Intelligence Commission, you have received a report from the relevant Commission. The House of Representatives passed the Law in both readings. Before I call on here to engage in the debate, I call on the representative, or the chairman of the committee in question, to present the Commission's report and inform us. Mr. Limov, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4653	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. Of course, distinguished fellow envoys, ladies and gentlemen, you have before you the text of the Law which is primarily the need and interest of BiH but also the condition without which BiH cannot objectively be a full member of NATO's Partnership for Peace and the EU. 11 The Act on the Intelligence Agency of BiH Article 105 has been specified by the Council of Ministers' obligation to refer the proposal for a law on the protection of classified information to the parliamentary surveillance no later than 3 months after the establishment of the agency. Practically, the Council of Ministers was obliged to deliver these laws to the Parliamentary Assembly until 1 September 2004. Since the Council of Ministers has not completed this obligation by law within the deadline set, I referred the initial version of the Code on the Protection of Secret Information into which it was incorporated in addition to the protection of classified information and security verification issues and the authorisation of access to classified information to be provided on 29 November 2004. The same text of the Law was taken over by MP Selim Bešlagić at the House of Representatives and referred him to the parliamentary procedure on 3 December 2004. Since you respected colleagues, in the Joint Commission report you received a review of further chronology of activities related to this law which has just been practically here in the procedure since yesterday, full 8 months. I'm just going to list a few things that I consider relevant in this occasion, which I think should be kept in mind when you plead, or make a commitment to the law itself. First, this law has a purely professional character, almost without any or with minimal political to put it that way. Secondly, in drawing up a version of the Law before you, besides proposing a decision by our Joint Commission, both at home to oversee the work of the BiH Security Intelligence Agency, representatives of the BiH Ministry of Security, representative of the BiH Intelligence Agency, representatives of the OHR and the OSCE, were included in the form of a task force, specifically Mr Dario Šikuljak, who, as an expert associate, made an outstanding contribution to the procedure for the envisaged parliamentary procedure to the relevant content and quality of the Law that we should decide today. The Law's decision, according to its standards, classification, methodology and institutional framework, meets all relevant criteria and requirements that must be met by NATO member states and the EU. Efforts have been made to make the draft law conditionally, in a trade-law sense, I hope that the lawyers will not be angry with this trade, so in this legal sense, an effort has been made to bring the law into line with the methodology which the rules for the drafting of the legal rules recently adopted by us by the representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and I hope that we have met the relevant standards in this segment Filipović, and that, even before this session, we have been able to confirm and give the right, and certainly, to give that legal opinion, I personally highly appreciate it. This law is a school example of how a domestic initiative is possible, so our people's initiative, with the appropriate political will that has been shown and proven in this overall procedure, comes to a solution that meets our needs and interests on the one hand and, on the other hand, meet the conditions that stand before BiH on its way to European, Euro-Atlantic associations. By passing this law, we, in practice ourselves, oblige the Council of Ministers of BiH to agree within the next 6 months, through amendments and complementing, for example, the Criminal 12 Law and the Law on Defence, solutions in these laws, in accordance with the Act on the Protection of Secret Information, as well as with European legislation in the section relating to the classification and degree of such data. With this law, more specifically, with its implementation in practice, BiH gets a strong hand in negotiations with EUROPOL, and I believe that it is quite realistic that, in due course after the ratification of the Europol Convention and the signing of an appropriate agreement with this extremely important EU institution, we can also get the Office in BiH, it is understood that when we are a member of the EU that we will have, in full capacity, full cooperation and until then this cooperation will be defined by a special agreement. I hope that this agreement will eventually be a reality and that we will ratify this agreement here, or give consent to be ratified. Behind the law we are considering today, are all members of the Joint Security Intelligence Commission for the Oversight of the BiH Intelligence Agency but all MPs of the Parliamentary House of BiH who unanimously adopted the vote in both readings. As a matter of course, you know all of this, then this, it is also a sign to me that this should be shortened, and I will do that, just so, one more sentence, this, from everything I have said and I ask you to consider today in both readings this law bearing in mind the fact that through the procedure only a single amendment that you have received in the Commission Report but which you have received even in the report of the House of Representatives therefore the same amendment, one was and he was also whether, motivated and the contents you could see by the fact that we have already come to certain arrangements and certain stages in the reform process which refers specifically to the defence force and, of course, in terms of increasing the capacity of the operation and other activities that the SIP is doing, and therefore we have foreseen by the Law that they have come to a fundamental sir check through the appropriate methodology based on the relevant decisions, before all the Ministers of the security of BiH and the fact that we have already verified the SIP. So, with this amendment, we have incorporated a level already achieved that needs to be entered into the content of the Law and our institutions are able to respond to the task set out in this law. So I firmly believe that they are, and time will show to what extent. In the end, uh, the fact is that we've come to the right standards. I will not particularly bother you, although the Commission has discussed this thoroughly. Our legislation and European legislation are not compatible in this respect, so it is also necessary in terms of determining classification and degrees of secrecy to agree to this legislation immediately in this step. I urge you and I ask you on behalf of the Commission to support this legislative project and to do so as far as possible, and I hope it is in both readings today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4654	I thank Mr. Limov. He was busy enough to tell us the history of the creation of this law. I think the text is solid, good. Limov made an effort to lobby and persuade us, possibly even successful. Who else wants to talk about this law? No more reports. 13 I call for a statement of the Law in the first reading. You can vote now. Thank you. I find that unanimously in the full number of votes for, we passed the law in the first reading. I suggest that at today's session we discuss this law in a second reading. I'm making this proposal a statement. So we make a statement about the decision to consider the Law in a second reading. You can vote now. Thank you. I find that by majority of votes, we unanimously made a decision, we adopted a decision to conduct the debate in another reading of the law in question. For a reminder, the second reading takes place to discuss amendments and votes on the Law. There were no new amendments. Are there any reports of a hearing? There isn't. I call for a statement on the law. You can vote. Thank you. I find that we unanimously passed the Law in another reading. And the law was passed in the same text as the House of Representatives and thus finally adopted. So the BiH Secret Data Protection Act was passed, the proposer was the Joint Commission. That's what we're done with point nine. So, we move to the tenth item of the agenda, Ad.10. The information on the state of BiH's external responsibility in 2004 is true that there is no proposing representative. It's a situation where we decide what to do with the point in question. I heard a semi-species proposal to remove the item from the agenda. Well, then we can apply our usual so far,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4655	I don't agree with that. If we're going to take it off then we're going to take it off, we're not going to transfer it because it's a permission to play with Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4656	Okay, so we have these, here you go, Mr. Hilmo.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4657	I suggest you take the act off the agenda. I mean, don't say the same thing 17 times. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4658	Okay. Thank you. This is the only proposal for now. We'll make a statement about this proposal. We can plead. Mr. Čengić, you wanted to.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4659	Respecting all of us and our habit but keeping in mind that we have here in front of a building of music that we can't influence, we don't solve it, play music, interfere with the work of people here. Yesterday was a long session of the House of Representatives, set at 8:00 last night and so on. I don't think it would be bad though, I don't see any reason for us to postpone this, maybe try to leave it as a last resort, if it doesn't come by then a representative to take it off. I agree, but let's try to communicate a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4660	Thank you for the suggestion. We have two suggestions. We plead. Unless Hilmo withdraws the proposal first on Mr. Hilmo's proposal. You can vote now. Yeah, who's just to take off the agenda for the sake of what I said, not to repeat that we're not wasting our time, we all know that?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4661	The proposal was unanimously accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4662	Thank you, I realize that we have unanimously decided to point 10. Information on the state of foreign duty in BiH in 2004, we take off today's session. The screen showed that there were only 12 votes in favour, with no abstentions and no votes against. Here, with this repair of Mr. Čengić, I believe, however, the technique, to this extent, was insensitive to registering it, however, and so it would be the same, is the same. So, because of the absence of a proposing representative, it's important that this point is important, we took it off the agenda and we're going to put it on our next session, of course. We're going to the 11th item of the agenda, Ad.11. Information on the state of security of BiH in 2004 received a report from the relevant commission. The House of Representatives received this information. I'm opening the debate and I notice that there is a deputy security minister present here. If there is a need of course, he is free and invited to speak before the debate. Mr. Mektić, please. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4663	Gentlemen of the chairman, the distinguished delegates of the House of Peoples, ladies and gentlemen, we, by the very obligation of the BiH Parliament, seem to have been the conclusion and obligation we received from the House of Representatives, were obliged to develop information on the overall state of security in BiH for 2004, with us doing so in the third month of this year. I see that a little bit of time has gone by but I don't think it's any problem to get to know some basic aspects of security and elements that determine the overall state of security in BiH. And, first of all, we in the executive bodies of the authorities or should say in all law enforcement agencies, first of all I mean here all the security agencies, come up with certain proposals and guidelines by Parliament, related to our work to improve the overall security situation in BiH. I would not, and I have no intention of taking your time here, but I wanted to say that we made this information up in such a way that we asked the relevant law enforcement agencies in BiH. Of course, within their real jurisdiction regarding security issues. It was little to say a rather complex way of getting this information, because the data must be asked by quite a lot of agencies, from cantonal mumps, entity ministries, state-level agencies, as well as by just one fact that it has been established and it was Parliament's conclusion that the information is extended and with data related to the overall situation and return of refugees and displaced persons, demining and some other aspects which by the nature of their work do not fall within the jurisdiction of these security agencies. In the first part, some findings were made, and above all data concerning the protection of international borders of BiH, with overall indicators of the total number of persons and vehicles crossing the state border, with data on denied entry, on the acceptance of third-country nationals, on visas issued at border crossings by the State Border Service, on persons deported from and to BiH, on illegal crossings of the state border, on the total number of registered persons in an illegal attempt to cross the state border, which means for sure that this is not all, that there is a certain number of illegal entrys that have occurred, on the identified persons with a search, on persons handed over to international organisations for migration and on the total number of persons who requested asylum when crossing the state border. It's one condition either to say one part or one segment of this, the security that was carried out primarily upon the arrival and crossing of the state border by, in the main by the State Border Service. The next segment that we've been processing here in this information is the area and the state of crime by its appearance, according to its individual phenomena, so it's been processed and processed this aspect of terrorism where some indicators are given. First and foremost, on the total number of certain operational checks or measures and actions done in terms of terrorism. However, the largest number of these activities take place on the requirements and information of other countries related to certain persons who have so to say, certain status from the citizenship of temporary and permanent stay in BiH and related to some of their activities abroad. 16 There was also increased demand-related activity here, for a certain number of persons who could be brought in any way related to terrorism. Also, here we have put for certain transparency this part and a certain number, we have said it here acts of violence of specific acts of violence which, in all of its elements, cannot fall within the criminal acts of terrorism but in a certain way cause one disturbance of the citizens, each... especially when it comes to certain acts that are disturbing and disrupting this, international relationship or endangering certain religious or religious expressions, I do not know the same thing here when you see or may be doing better of one transparency, it is not about some difficult acts but essentially very sensitive works. I don’t know about throwing, banging glass on religious objects, verbal threats to religious officials, or those of those who meet certain religious or religious needs. When it comes to crimes of murder, you see here these indicators, that is, crimes against life and the body, total crimes against life and the body, 2398, of which 77 murder crimes, and when compared to some indicator from earlier years, there is no more drastic increase, but the truth is no reduction. It's holding on to such a trend. Crimes against dignity of personality and morals. Total here are the most burdensome of this area's crimes of rape and here are these indicators with this, the realization of the discovery of these crimes. In particular, one aspect is given here and the problem of these crimes of human trafficking has been addressed, since they can be put into a group of these acts, especially as they are still, which is still quite present and expressed the phenomenon of trafficking in women in order to force sexual exploitation, that is to say, to commit prostitution. And especially since there's a classic form of human trafficking and forced prostitution through nightclubs, bars, etc. which was once very present and expressed in BiH, has gone into a more perfidious and more complex way. So these people are forced, engaged in apartments, cottages, and in a special other way. Further is the problem of unauthorized production and drug trafficking, processed here with indicators totaling BiH, according to indicators for the Federation and RS and Brcko District. And it can certainly be noted here that the emergence of production and the placing on the market of intoxicating drugs is certainly far more pronounced than the total police activity in terms of its discovery. What's he saying, exactly? You see here when it comes to the discovery and the total number of registered crimes, that there is one reduction, and on the other hand you have indications that every day there is an increase in the number of registered users of intoxicating assets, especially minors, and what is the most difficult indicator, which is the increase in the total number of deaths or deaths that can be assumed to be caused by excessive use of intoxicating drugs. However, we here have realistically shown those indicators that are. It has been discovered and registered so many crimes, taken away so many intoxicating assets and it is certain that this is not enough activity of all these agencies and that far more attention should be paid to this problem. If you let me just say that in the parliamentary procedure of the Council of Ministers, a special law on drugs has been sent to the Council of Ministers, I do not know exactly now, not to speak, and to the classification of drugs in BiH because it was a major flaw, which we did not have at the state level, a law regulating production, placing on the market and classification of particularly across the road(?) or the same cross-section(?) of which drugs are produced, so that certain cross-sections could be imported to BiH without any special regime and in such a way as to produce, especially dangerous and dirty drugs or these synthetic drugs such as ecstasy, etc. And, if you remember, there's been a fact that I don't say, a certain number of detections of these affairs, related to the import of orphans and these archids, and that has caused certain abuse in such a way as to produce these, as I have already said, dirty or synthetic drugs. Furthermore, crimes against the general security of people and property, as well as an extremely important and important segment from the point of view of general security, one such concentration can primarily be carried out on the fact that the assets of our citizens are safe and there is an increase and registered and discovered and total number of criminal offences detected and it is one quite significant increase in these crimes and these problems, and I say once again, it is next to the drugs one of the most serious segments where there is an increase or weakness in this segment of security and there can be several characteristic phenomenal forms here, which is estrangement or theft of motor vehicles where there is a serious increase in the total number of these cases and a new form of rectification or blackmail of citizens in the alienation of motor vehicles, it is in a way to call, demand for ransom and so forth. The same here, especially one characteristic form of occurrence, is a large relatively large increase in the embezzlement, i.e. the crimes of a robbery that occurred primarily through attacks on banks and a relatively small number, one relatively small lighting when it comes to these crimes, so let me say the complexity and method of committing crimes, etc. that pretty little can be done here when given a specific description I don't know, etc. the perpetrators themselves and the method of execution. The situation in the area of economic crime has also been shown here. Total registered from police agencies' point of view, 1377 crimes. The largest number of criminal offences refers to counterfeiting certain official documents, abuse of official position, authority, unconscious business, tax evasion, etc. Public order and peace, I just want to say, here's that a total of 30,171 requests have been made in the last year for the initiation of misdemeanor proceedings in the courts of misdemeanors. There's no drastic difference compared to the year before. And it can be found in public order and peace that there were no particularly difficult cases of public order and peace and there were no major violations of public order and peace. And yet another finding, there were no particularly complex or difficult cases of disturbances that had national impatience for motives or that had the motive to prevent the return of refugees and displaced persons. It's mostly about some unsettled property relations, disturbed family relationships, mostly through fights, threats, especially insolent behaviors, where alcohol was mainly the cause of these cases of public order and peace violations. The state of traffic security, it can be said, is not satisfactory but does not again record one trend of deterioration compared to earlier years. A total of 36,450 car accidents took place in BiH. 433 people died. And I would say that it is free to say that one of the reasons and an insufficiently effective legal framework, when it comes to the overall security of traffic in BiH. There are very, very many laws on 18 basics of traffic security that treat a particular one differently, certain traffic behaviours. Co-operation with The Hague tribunal. There have been certain activities, let me say again, that I don't take up much of your time. In particular, these activities have come to light this year. They'll be processed in the first six months of this year. The results of realising the return of the face and property, the demining, that's what we've actually thrown out, we've shown here the exact dynamics. Still around 4% of BiH's territory is mined and is one of the serious problems. And finally, we can conclude that the security situation in BiH has been satisfactory but as I have already pointed out, in one, except for two important and important segments, and this is the drug problem I was talking about and the problem of general security of citizens' assets in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4664	I thank Mr. Mektić, Deputy Minister of Security of BiH. We already have several reports. Mr. Boško Šiljegović, Tomislav Limov and just to agree on how to work. Are we gonna have a lunch break or are we gonna try, please? So here I was optimistic to this point, but this pulls us pretty much. But, well, here we go for another time, so if we estimate it's going pretty fast, maybe we can finish before lunch and if not, it's up to us. Mr. Šiljegović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4665	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am taking the opportunity to welcome you all ahead of the Joint, Defence and Security Policy Commission and to oversee the city of defence and security structures at BiH level. The report, which you received in 3.6.2005, states on the Security Information in BiH in 2004. The BiH Council of Ministers delivered to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on 13.5.2005 Information on the state of security in BiH for 2004. The joint commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for Defence and Security Policy and Oversight over the work of the BiH-level defence security structures at the 23rd session held in 2.6.2005, discussed the BiH security situation in 2004. It received the same knowledge and referred to a further parliamentary procedure with the following conclusion. In order to prevent the illegal transition of people and goods in general and in general as much as possible to protect the state border of BiH, the BiH State Border Service should, in the shortest possible time, draw up specific information on the quality of the service fill and carry out internal control of the work of the current employees and provide information to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for consideration. Thank you very much. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4666	I thank Mr. Šiljegović. This is very specific. We can plead immediately and we can after the debate. I think if it were possible to supplement that, Mr. Limov, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4667	Let me start by saying, I support the proposed conclusion by our respective commission. And, given everything the Dominister told us and respecting, of course, the fact that these data are from last year, I personally estimate that there is no need to spend a lot of time, but it is still important, by my assessment, to say something about the grades themselves because it makes us think that these grades are more powerful than they want in our public opinion, primarily the key politicians, publicly acknowledge. And I'm probably the High Representative myself, when he analyzes this, you have, therefore, the Honorable Prime Minister, in the material of a few things that I also agree with, are correct, and I don't have any reason to remember what you've now said in general to some major remarks, although whether or not I'm looking through these opposition glasses. So, I agree with those assessments where you've warned about the negative trends in our society, in our country, if, in any case, there's a potential risk of a security breach. So what I want to say is, what I want to say is, so I'm skipping all of this, the content and all of what you've said, I want to draw attention to how I understand it, the recording of the security situation, exactly that we have one reflection, one video, and based on that video to see who needs to do what time, in which way, in order to keep what you've defined as satisfactory and alerted to certain trends in those two segments that are certainly here today, we can say that something more difficult than what's satisfying, keeping in mind all this is happening. Now, when you've defined the direction of activity in the back of this document, then you've said it in a pretty general way and I know that you'll answer as a professional, it's understood, there's a constitution, there's a law, there's an idea of who needs to do it, etc. But I think, of course, that we all acted according to the Constitution and the law and that if we had been responsible for our tasks, we would not have had these problems to this end that potentially or directly affect the stability of the security situation in BiH. So I'm going to warn actually just draw attention to a few fields of action to call them that, and address it directly to the Council of Ministers. So, I personally think that in the last part of this part you should say that the Council of Ministers will, within certain deadlines, for each of these things, and it is quite clear when I list the contents of these fields of action, that this is not wisdom. It is, therefore, only that the Council of Ministers is in charge of the relevant entities and, of course, in the part in which it relates to international conventions, above all, that the Presidency also does its part of the work and that we, as Parliament, do our part of the work in terms of granting consent and speeding up procedures. You did this in March, but here's the Council of Ministers that ended only in May. And then it takes us 60-65 days to bring in a normal procedure and come in last year, we were like 30.7 in this situation. Now I personally think that dynamics should be done in such a way that by the end of the third month, you know the direction of activity and that all subjects know in those 9 months by the end of the year what this one is going to do. And, of course, it means 20 that you, too, were able to go through the opening exposure, I know why you didn't, but I guess from an opportunity why you didn't. Because you didn't get the data, but we need to commit those entities that give you the information to deliver it to you 30.6. and if we're discussing it now, we need to know that our situation is in the first half of the year. Because now we're discussing what happened last year. Now, what are the directions of activity? What I personally think we can do if there is enough of this, determination and will in due course is whether, in the next period. First of all, you mentioned, I agree, you spoke of various elements, and above all, you warned of this, in your own words, of the dangers of organised crime in those phenomenal forms that you stated. And in that sense, you mentioned the need to pass some laws. You said, therefore, that a drug law has been prepared and I, of course, as a Parliamentarian, don't know what stage it is, I don't know if it came today, here I haven't seen it yet, but here I am full support and I call on the commission to do our part of the work as soon as possible. We also need a law on preventing human trafficking. I think, and you were talking about it when you mentioned the robbery and the bank stuff, and so on. And in the very text of this information you have well warned that the discovery is as it is, unsatisfactory but you have pointed to the fact that we do not have enough trained security services, we do not have enough consciousness in those who have to engage those services. I personally think that we need to standardize this job because it's about millions of marks that are stolen under certain circumstances, looting, mostly armed robbery, and of course, it leaves a very bad impression, a very bad impression on the mood of citizens because it's obvious that we have no institutions in an effective way to oppose it. That's why I think we need to pass the law on security agencies in BiH. So, one law where we're going to have the same standards and not the people that are trained there this, without proper preparation of abilities, knowledge, equipment etc. And it happens here less are these bank robberies and insurance companies successful if, uh, successful for whoever executes them. Considering, there are some sanctions and that's okay, that's Bogdo and more. I think we'd like to pass one of these laws. Here's that set of these three laws I would personally give full support to do so as soon as possible. We are also obliged to ratify, say, the International Convention on the fight against corruption. These days, information has been announced that we are the only country in Southeast Europe that has not done so. I see no reason therefore, the Presidency, the Council of Ministers and we Parliamentarians can give it to themselves in the task and this one, to ratify. I fully understand that certain obligations arise from that. Eh, also, this time I'll say and you've talked a lot about it and written a lot about this social component of the security situation, so to speak. I think that as a state, we must already ratify the social charter of the Council of Europe and take on the obligations that we, in this sense, have to assume as a state. Of course, it's those two conventions, these three laws. And I'm going to list a few of the things that come out of this and if we were to do it properly, I'd say action or operational thing. So at BiH level, you've also talked about it, and I'm not going to come out of the context of the content that you've given in the information through this opening statement, but I'm going to tax-list 3-4 of the things that we should have besides so, these three laws, in addition to these two conventions. They should therefore have a social welfare programme of 21 endangered categories of the population. We talk about it all the time and here we see for ourselves how it goes, especially in waiting for VAT and everything that goes in that sense. Secondly, you should prepare, when I say you should, you said so, and I tell you, it needs the Council of Ministers and then you organise and go to Parliament with a proposal for these programmes and then it is up to Parliament to adopt them and then to know which entities are in charge of their implementation. So prepare a strategy and programme to fight corruption, money laundering, customs fraud and tax evasion. I'm like this all in one piece to get along but I think as a state we have to have that program. You know that, you well know, Mr. Prime Minister, also known fellow envoys, that we are in the Map of Ways but also in the terms of the Partnership for Peace, in addition to the conditions that we have concluded that we have not met it. But it is clear to us there that we must have adequate programmes and in an appropriate way legislation in connection with the fight against crime organised, primarily transnational crime and corruption, of course. I'm not going to remind you of the place we're in right now, that is, after our last investigation into corruption. Third thing to do, prepare a strategy and action plan for integrated governance of the state border. So, the Council of Ministers needs it, you wrote it. You're it, okay, we need that plan to see if, and we Parliamentarians if we have any obligations about it. If we don't have any obligations then we'll ask you, those 400 wild crossing points that are still there, we'll ask you what Mr. Šiljegović has indicated, I've recognised that 500 people need to be received immediately after the current systemization, to see what we as Parliament need to do to secure funds for this through the budget, etc. I'm not going to ask you right now who the CEO of DGS is, what the situation is, etc., I'm not going to ask you, I see you laughing, you know what I'm talking about. So, next thing you know, I'm glad you're done, I'd like to see it and, of course, I guess other colleagues, prepare an action plan for the fight against trafficking in human beings and drugs. There are certain conventions there, etc. We have to have a plan, we have a state coordinator, I follow that as far as I can, but we as a state must have an appropriate plan. And I'm going to tell you something that when it comes to this, if we don't build certain institutions, we won't be successful, we won't respond to our mission in this sense. I'll tell you a few of the institutions that need to be told whether, and which I expect above all, the Council of Ministers will initiate within the Board of Irregular Taxation, significantly strengthen, because I know that it will tell me, it has, and it has, important to strengthen the customs fraud and tax evasion services, and it stands with you in the material. Then, I mentioned it through an envoy's question, and you've now identified the problem of it, we need to establish or form, establish an institution for juvenile delinquents. You have warned of the dangerous trend of juvenile delinquency, the involvement of minors in various forms of criminal activity. Then, we have to have at the state level, I've called it the state's forensics service this, and the state's research lab, because as you said, there we're sending, I don't know, to Zagreb etc. So we must build our institutions that will function faster, which will provide adequate data based on which both police and other entities will function in a better way. Of course, this is what you've presented to us, the police view of this issue. When we compare this to the prosecution and the court's indicators, only then 22 we actually see where to do what, since you are, in that sense, in the executive sense, you know better than us parliamentarians, but in any case, I think you should write what who, when they're going to do it, so that next year, when we're going to consider this information, we're going to start in the opening part, actually than how what we've realized is the direction of the activity, so you say, that and that one should have done it, he didn't do it. So let's see if it's what we should do and get rid of it. And I will end my thinking about this in a way that without police reform and you are quite correct this one, and said, without reforming the police according to the standards required by the EU, we will not be standing up as a state to meet the challenges that in the future I am sure of, and I would like to be fooled by being more and more pronounced and keeping in mind this, our environment rope and wider, and those blizzards(?) which you mentioned, etc. which certainly this, without police reform, recognises that we have a single ministry, professionalism and political independence and regional organisation according to the criteria of effectiveness as the profession says, we will not be getting up in due time to respond to our mission, as a government and as a non-citizenship at all, so if you want and as a society called Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4668	I thank Mr. Limov for the lengthy exposure. Mr. brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4669	I welcome you gentlemen of the chair, colleagues and all the guests of the media, it's a little hard to speak after an expert who's been in this area all my life but I can't help but say some things that I've noticed. I agree entirely with what Mr. Šiljegović said, because I am a member of that Commission, and I know that we have done it badly as he has brought it here. However, I want as an ordinary citizen, here in Parliament to present some of my dilemmas that I do not understand, and I would like to perhaps explain to them. Namely, we thank Bog we have the State Border Service and it was established before, I think it's 3 years old, 5 years old, and thank Bog. However, it is not clear to me that after that, if we have 5 years of the State Border Service, here we find it necessary to bear in mind that the BiH border is still not properly covered, the existence of illegal border crossings. I find this unacceptable. This was acceptable to me that in the first year we could have had illegal crossings, when the Border State Service was established. But five years later, to realize that we still have, that we still have illegal border crossings. I find that unacceptable. No one can explain it to me professionally, politically or in any way you want. I think it's inadmissible and it's a failure of the State Border Service. He couldn't be missed, he had to physically prevent it. Why isn't that physically prevented, that after five years of the existence of the State Border Service, I can find out that we don't have any illegal border crossings. Now don't tell me who's going through the woods, I'm not talking about those crossings, who's walking through the woods. Ali. If there's a road, an illegal crossing across the road, across the road, wild that it can pass, I can't accept it, and that's why I'd ask for someone's responsibility. I don't get it. 23 Next, when it comes to drugs. Obviously, the law on the subject is missing, and thank Bog, I've heard now that he's going into procedure. However, there are some things, if safety is being talked about, and that includes drugs, it is not possible to solve them in a partial manner. It doesn't matter if the child Đokino, Antino or osmanov, if his drugs are available, that's the problem, both Đoke and Ante and Osman. And that's the problem of every citizen of this country and every one, someone can't say that's one nation's problem without another. It's a problem for everyone, and I think we should work more on that point of view, on the common ground. But that will be possible, what my predecessor just said in his closing statement, when we have police reform. Because without it, without that political will here there will be no stepping out, and these steps can come and they are the problem of all, I absolutely guarantee it, that this is a problem, it is not a single problem for anyone, but for all of us who live in BiH. And a third thing that I don't understand. When it comes to human trafficking. My people, me, sometimes I stop and wonder if I'm a fool or not. I watch our TV, I watch our press, every night you open at 10:00 p.m., at 11:00 p.m. to tell me, so all our TVs are propagating human trafficking, prostitution, propagating it. I can't understand it at all that that's what it's supposed to be doing. This is where we say it needs to be prevented. This is where the public media is propagating it. Those two are incompatible to me. Is anyone in need of this, if that's possible, explain to me if it's possible. I don't think that's possible. No, I need an explanation for that. I wonder what's wrong with me. No, but look, I know what independent media is, but I can't do what's illegal and we're saying it's supposed to fight, against this, against what, but how do we fight it? Every day there's more and more propaganda on the subject. I'm not looking at any, I'm just listing the channels and no, not my people, it's really inexplicable to me. Can someone explain that to me? And I'd really like to conclude with the next one. I'd like to conclude with the next one. I agree with this report like this. However, I can also assume that your service, your ministry, is awaiting police reform. I have this impression because I'm assuming that you in the procedure would have put us more billing to fix this than you've sent. And I think you expect the political will to be done. And that is why I appeal to do so really as soon as possible because it is the interest of all citizens in BiH. And there's a lot more to be said here, but I've put a dilemma here that I don't have an answer for as a man, and no one can explain it to me. I could only say one more thing. I think it must be much more effective for the D.A. and the judiciary based on your work. I don't think there's a bullet in there, either. It's not an established synchronization that we're not going far. It's just this car theft and what I know. I mean, it's so unsolved that it's amazing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4670	I thank Mr. Brk. Mr. Đoko Pajić called for an argument. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4671	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, honored guests, a lot has been said. I'll try to be as brief as possible, I think I will be. It's logical, the information as information, we'll take it to the knowledge, but it's the order to say something. Of course, according to all these security elements in BiH, certain data have been provided, the gentleman also made certain proposals for measures to improve the security of both the BiH state and its citizens in the coming period. But it is not clear to me, and I will point to an example of where both the official institutions and its assets, instead of improving the security of BiH and its citizens, are questioning the security of the BiH state and its citizens, and it seems to me consciously question my life, my children, my family and all the citizens of BiH. I've talked about it before, but I want to say it in public this time. This applies to this point 2.2 crimes, 2.1 acts of terrorism. And there's something said on page 6 in the second position and in the third position, thank Bog that we in BiH haven't been exposed to such massive injuries to everything, everything we've been looking at around the world lately. So here, that one sentence stands, he says -- the threat of terrorist organisations led by Alkaid, European countries being wary of Iraq, which have been taken very seriously into account since some countries have been captured in them, etc. This information is clear, 2004. Perhaps more specifically, I think I would like it never to happen to us, but I want to make it clear this time that the reckless gesture, the sending of members of the Armed Forces to Iraq, because this is exactly the gesture that brought BiH and all of us together under the very serious threat of terrorist action, and that such a decision, adopted by law, should be presented to this assembly to the final decision that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly under Article 6. Law on sending members of the BiH Armed Forces to peacekeeping missions, etc. Especially since this unit that has been sent to the military is uniform, the BiH Armed Forces Unit is part of a coalition force, and it is known which coalition forces are there, and that is one very serious thing for me that should have been taken care not to bring both our country and its citizens into such a dangerous situation. Especially since the next position here is related to this, certain facial checks have been made on the UN list. It has thus been found that 14 people who meet UN C-listed figures in BiH. Therefore, and it does not stand with those faces. He's just saying they've been identified and where they are, what they're doing, what they do and what they do and everything else, they don't stand in this information at all. So, I just wanted to say to express one of my dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction with many of the citizens I talked to about what was done on June 1st of this year. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4672	I thank Mr. Pajić. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? I don't see it. Here I am going to give myself the right and say only two sentences before Mr. Mektić wants me to explain something. So we have one piece of information that seems to me done quite correctly, by my actually seeing correctly and quite extensively, I think it's quite realistic in 25 of its estimates. However, the issue of currentity is also raised. So it's been seven almost eight months, seven months almost this year, and I think we should do everything we can to really consider this information at least at the end of the first quarter and not at the end of the second or almost the beginning of the third. So, I think it would be one such remark and a suggestion to try to speed it up a little bit to be more current. In particular, Mr Đoko Pajić also spoke about some of the elements that have changed in the meantime, etc. What is special, I usually don't exactly praise the information that we get here in Parliament, I think that at the very end in Chapter VIII of the proposal measures and activities, quite correctly made up, now I don't know if it's very happy in order by regular numbers if these are priorities or maybe not, maybe it's just a list, and I think these measures and activities are quite well located and that maybe they would solve the essence of the problem. But it would be very good if we had one comparative analysis, so, at some point recently, what these measures and activities have done has been done, and how they, therefore, have been reflected in the results of these activities in concrete areas as already mentioned here in this information. We were recently as a commission visiting the Administration for indirect taxation in Banja Luka so we heard from them certain problems etc. and we see that here, in the proposal for measures and activities from the Resoring Ministry of Security, the important role and position of this administration are listed. It is certainly important and important, but they also have their own objections and say their demands to BiH judicial authorities do not come across how they think and dequate treatment but put some other problems in the priorities of solving in judicial bodies, etc. There may again be an opportunity to discuss some other problems, or solutions to issues that would contribute to resolving the overall security situation and opportunities in BiH. Here you have put very correctly in perhaps a very high position, number 3 where you talk about social problems. So this information or suggestion of activity also has a social dimension, a social aspect which is certainly proof that you have approached this issue, I would say very correctly and comprehensively. And here, in the end, I'm going to conclude with two of my thoughts and suggestions, so we're going to try to see what of this, the proposed measures here, have managed to do, implement both the results and implementation and implementation and that we're getting information about safety and safety assessments earlier, or that we're not waiting for at least 7-8 months from the date for which they apply. In the end, if there are no more reported, Mr Čengić has signed up, then we will plead on the conclusion proposed by Mr Šiljegović. Mr. Čengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4673	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the media, international community, I would not discuss today, I would just like to ask Mr. Deputy Minister a question to explain to me on the cover of two facts. This document, which we have here, states that this information is supposed to be made up of March, part of 2005, and the letter of the Ministry of Security mentions that information has been discussed at the Council of Ministers' meeting in the 82nd row, not 26 states the date when the meeting was held but the date of the memo of the Ministry of Security is 13.5. I'm interested in the fact that how long has it been since the time when the information was made up until the Council of Ministers discussed the information? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4674	I thank you, Mr. Mektić wanted some other clarifications as well. Here you go, Mr. Mektić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4675	I wanted to, since there were a few questions just to answer and say that absolutely all your suggestions, all your suggestions, all your suggestions, all yours to say so and the guidelines, come on, this one that came in handy. Look, we're looking for, we're giving you a condition as it is, whether we could do it better or not, that's the thing, you're going to evaluate and you're going to make comments but we're asking that you support all of our issues and problems at the same time. The DGS question is how it's possible it's an unprotected border. It is possible because we, the state border of BiH, are covering us with 2,000 people. The minimum is somewhere around 2.550 people to meet that need. We need 550 people, but we don't have money in Budget. We are, our proposal was 55 million marks for the State Border Service. It's been 48 years, and we can't take any men to supplement and to fix it. This is where Parliament and you can practically help us with the budget to increase that part and say we will receive 500 new people and then cover the physical borders. How could they have such uncovered border crossings? There are exactly 408 illegal border crossings. I can't say I'm not illegal, or illegal, that they can be used for illegal smuggling across the border of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so with Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro. It is, these are the paths that existed before, and they exist now, you're not hindered by anything, and they're not by institutions. It's just, here's what I'm gonna say, and not by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina marked as a legal border crossing. There is one strategy funded by the European Commission, I would like to tell you, the physical prevention of these illegal border crossings and financed by CARC funds, precisely to physically prevent. We are, because there is a state border commission with both Croatia and Serbia and Montenegro, and it is a condition that we would go to a physical impediment to sign a state border agreement with one and the other. Right, after that, we have a defined limit, and then we can't go before that because there are problems. With Croatia we defined right now and followed the signing and it is necessary for us to perform physical obstruction there must be activity on both sides of the country and on the other side of the country that, let's say, they prevent each other etc. Is it not only the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to enter into the process that we only fence, but simply to make such crossings in agreement with these countries that will not be physically prevented and illegally crossed. These are the activities I want to tell you, in progress, but we need to get to those agreements first on, oh, with these countries, precisely define the limit that there is no disputed moment can we not before that. 27 That’s the answer I wanted to tell you, but that’s working now. Here's to working on that question about this illegal border-blocking thing. As for what you asked for, to be compared now, to be given new data and to compare to this realization, I want to say that we are working now in six months this year for the first six months and that it will be very soon completed and that it will be delivered. That we are doing special information for Parliament on the juvenile delinquency that we will specifically deliver here with a delinquency that can be tied to minors. That, meanwhile, we did and established the Integrated Border Management Strategy during this year and it was adopted by the Council of Ministers. To work on a anti-corruption strategy, about this one that's been spoken here and that we have a done and adopted anti-trafficking strategy. And I just wanted to, this is what I wanted to do with the security issue of Iraq as a whole and the threat of being attacked in terms of the terrorism of the countries that are participating downstairs and who are militaryly present. Of course, within the Ministry, we can't, we've made, we can make a decision not to go or go, but when they're down there, we take it seriously and we consider it. We regularly hold meetings at the level of all police intelligence agencies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, analyze all data and indicators that can be associated with this and simply in case there are certain activities, etc. that we will, of course, meet all relevant institutions in time.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4676	I thank Mr. Mektić. Here's what I think we can say about the conclusion now. Here you go, Mr. Brk. Just sign in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4677	This really doesn't explain anything to me. I'm surprised now that we're standing on our feet like a state at all. If there are 400 crossings that are completely unprotected neither physically nor with humans, then someone wants it to be so. Yeah, well, that explains it to me. I was just worried. I don't have words. That we are now waiting to agree on a border, and we know that there are problems to say Serbia-Montenegro is looking for a change in the border that is completely illogical and let's say it doesn't settle in 5 or 10 years, and these crossings will cost 5 or 10 years. So I'm surprised that anyone goes to these legal crossings. What's wrong with you people, so something has to do with you urgently. Well, it can't be. It's nowhere in the world. Well, you can't, so we call people to deal with crime. The state calls them that. I just don't get it now.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4678	Okay. Here comes Mr. Čengić. I'd like a moment. Otherwise we'll do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4679	Okay. Very short. I unfortunately didn't get an answer to my question. So I didn't understand when the report was prepared, and when the Council of Ministers considered it. I'm not allowed to conclude 28 on the basis of facts, I don't want to draw conclusions, but I'm afraid it's about two months since the time when the information was over by the time the Council of Ministers considered it. It is not that we are so cheap to our own Council of Ministers that such serious issues as the safety of life, bodies, property and everything else, once the ministry has prepared the information, it is the Council whose ministry has not considered it for 2 months. I don't think that's right. I think some things exist as important in terms of time priorities. That's why I wanted to understand the answer. But these, in order not to conduct the debate, I think it would be very important to conclude and ask the Council of Ministers to have such reports prepared within 60 days of the end of the period. In other words, in the first two months of next year for the previous year. And that within a month should be considered. And secondly, as far as the owl is concerned, it's not a bit naive, this remark that is now obvious, I would not like to create now a state of border crossings. Mr. Limov mentioned 400 crossings. Mr. Brka mentioned 400 crossings, and I didn't count I don't know, but if there are 5, and especially 50 and possibly more crossings where you can really cross by motorcycle, bike, where you can cross by rail, where you can cross by some smaller tractor, a tow truck – it's a serious thing. Imagine each of us having either a garden, or a garden, or a garden, or something possibly wider property, every normal host of the first thing he does in the spring, examines the fence and strengthens it. Although his chicken enters the garden, he makes sure he doesn't dig his coffin there. And now we have the condition we have here. I understand this attitude in terms of not having an agreement on the state border. But wait, please. Really what that means. After all, there can be various forms of prevention. In the end, you can determine what priorities are. And if it's 200 of those crossings, maybe 20 is important. We had information in Banja Luka, Mr. Chairman you were present that we had heard that there were still illegal crossings through which to pass with the goods. I'm talking about goods now, people are a special story. So the goods that don't register. Mr Limov did not ask the question of tobacco, imports and tobacco exports for no reason, etc. So can we define if it's really possible that we should wait for the KARC program or someone else to fence us or fence my people. What kind of money is that? To avoid further debate, we should prepare information on this issue as soon as possible by the Council of Ministers, and that is to add to the conclusions of our commission that we certainly support. When I say as soon as possible, let's say by September of the month, we get a brief analysis and a proposal for measures. If it costs to see how much it costs. Is that 500,000, is it a million or not, and I don't know how much it is, and let's say that in the budget, we need to provide a budget of that kind of funds for some kind of priority prevention, for example. Maybe it's cheaper than hiring 500 people. But there's something we can't do from today that we've officially received this information. So from today, we've all heard it. You can't pretend we don't know about it anymore, officially or officially, so we don't do anything about it. On the other hand, we can't ask the ministry to take action unless there's financial resources. And the worst thing is to say it's all like that and not do anything. 29 So I suggest that we provide a brief piece of information on this with a very precise proposal for measures. I would also ask very clearly with, namely, some assessment of the cost of the most priority obstacles on a temporary basis, on a provisional basis until the final signing of border agreements on borders etc. and, on that basis, the Parliamentary Assembly should therefore consider the proposal measures and adopt any position on the basis of a proposal for measures. I suggest we just add this to our commission's conclusions and give support to this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4680	Here's my thanks to Mr. Čengić. I'm going to have to say a few more words because I'm a little familiar with the situation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's border areas, and we've gone one way and it seems unrealistic and uncritical to me, but here I come out to avoid being abused. So, I think it's clear and it's in everyone's interest to really have an absolutely supervised and well-controlled border on every country in the world, as well as Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's always in the interest of at least two countries and beyond. Why two? Well, it's about both of them. This is where our neighbors and us are concerned specifically. And it's not easy to talk about this problem at all, and it's not just to be looked at unilaterally in terms, it's also necessary to think about ensuring conditions for the life and work of people in the border belt. I don't even know what 10, 15, 20 kilometers is. I'll say a few very specific examples. I mean, this border that's now the state border, it's old and I don't know how many, let's say 15 years old. It wasn't the state border before, it was some kind of administrative border, a republican border. The example for the BH settlement of the Destroy, it's a village I don't know how many residents there is, I wouldn't want to make a mistake and say, but BH is a settlement, a settlement in the BH country that has no access at all except maybe a goat road on the territory of BH, but it comes from the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And we can't be the blind ones now, so say I don't know what we're gonna do. Preventing people from getting to their own house at all, etc. Then we will condemn them to emigration. So what would we do? We as the responsible government of the state must ensure conditions for the lives and work of all people of our country. So the municipal structure of the Bosnia and Herzegovina border should be invested with significant funds, ensuring that these people can normally reach their houses, where they cross the state border with another part of BH. As far as I know, the state institutions have invested very little, or no means to ensure, here's an example. There may even be a lot more drastic ones like this. Therefore, this issue should be approached with great responsibility that, above all, it takes care of the security of the border, but before that, of interest and that conditions for the life and work of people in the border area are ensured. Because you can't do something to make people cut off that they're at the end of the world, that they're isolated and they're cut off etc. So it's not simple, but it needs to work and it needs to be dealt with. Furthermore, let's also not talk about our border service with this tone, otherwise the DGS. Two months ago around here in this hall was an anniversary of 30 I mean the foundation of DGS, the fifth was, and so on. There have been talk of very significant successes. I'm convinced that's what others say about us who look at us a little bit better with less subjectivity, and more objectively, indicators say what's done. And so this is also an important topic, but it's not so bad to say what it is and we can't just look at it without interest and these people living in these areas. These are the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, they should also be provided with all the conditions, and many countries while borders in Europe were different, tighter, etc. they gave people in the border belts of a certain convenience very significant. We don't think about it. I don't agree, and I think we should think about these areas and these people that way. Because it's known that always, it's the law of the physics of centrifika, so centripetal forces work so it always attracts everything into the center, circles remain without me knowing much, etc. I don't think it should be allowed from, for the sake of meeting one goal of another maybe in the same very important goals we don't fully meet, or we do wrong, but I will repeat, we mustn't do wrong to those people in those areas. Here's what I had to say and thank you for your attention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4681	I can't help but answer. Namely, no moment has my speech on the problem of crossings been against any citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina in any place to live in any village or village. It's another whole thing from the border crossings. And let's not mix those two up. I am not to make life more difficult for a citizen in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I am absolutely convinced and confident with greater control of the border crossings of every citizen in Bosnia and Herzegovina will get the revenues of Bosnia and Herzegovina to be greater and problem-solving and in those border areas of people living there will create more normal living conditions. It's a completely separate topic from what I was talking about, about that problem. I know, I was at a session here when it was a DGS session. I'm not downplaying their importance in this respect, but I'm here to give great criticism to all those responsible for keeping silent about these border crossings for five years, because absolutely to me it's inadmissible. I've been visiting down there with the members of the committee in Brcko, Bijeljina down and that space. I talked to the director, the people. I know about their successes, but I don't blame them for the situation, but I blame the most responsible people who don't care about it, and they've had to take care of it by now. No one can convince me that this isn't a problem that's solved. That's the problem. The second question is whether he wants to get rid of it. And I fully join Mr. Čengić's proposal to make it our conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4682	I thank Mr. Brk. Here, it seems to me that we can bring the end a little bit now. There are no more registered speakers. 31 What Mr Šiljegović initially suggested is one conclusion, I think we can accept it, because it is just a significant part of what we have been talking about and covered, with perhaps another addition, that is, a recommendation that because of this debate that took more than an hour to commit Parliament's professional services to deliver to the Council of Ministers, i.e. to the Resolute Ministry a stenogram of this debate so that all useful suggestions and suggestions could be included here also in mind and included in its report, i.e. in its further activities. Can we conclude with this conclusion, so we take this into account, we don't say that, and we don't get to the conclusion that we make a statement. The conclusion has already been read. Now it's been completed with this to deliver a stenogram. I call for a plea. You can vote now. Thank you. - I find that we have unanimously received this information. In fact, it adopts this statement. Now we've reached the 12th point of the agenda. It's already been received for 14 hours. I'm asking most of us here to decide, because we didn't have the agreement in college whether to continue and try to finish it quickly, or if we could still take a lunch break and move on. Mr. Čengić, tell me. You've been called.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4683	Allow the microphone. So I suggest we work till the end. There's no reason not to. We've got eight points left, but they're all common, the commission's been considering everything, and if you'll excuse me, I'd suggest the following first. All of a sudden, let me just say one sentence about these seven points and just the last point. Let me say two sentences later. So from point 12 to point 17, including point 17, we have a series of consents where, as a House, we should give consent to ratification of certain agreements, etc. Therefore, the return of refugees with Croatia, inter-road traffic with Russia, the financial reconstruction of Amanamdna vi from the United States, then trade economic co-operation with the Government of Russia, trade economic co-operation with the Government of Russia and rehabilitation of the city waterway, is one ratification of a credit and financial agreement that represents one German bank. All in all these agreements she was considering. All of these agreements were discussed by the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy at its two meetings. I think it was on the 37th and 38th that she proposed to the House to give consent to be ratified. All these agreements are quite common. Often, agreements have already been reached, so these are some amendments, either subsequent or next phase of the implementation of the programme, i.e. common agreements such as these on the road with Russia or trade or economic co-operation. For this reason, the Commission proposes to the House to give its consent to ratify all these agreements. Thank you. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4684	I thank Mr. Čengić. Here I think we can accept this kind of work. Here, then let's go so 12th point Ad.12. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the return of refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia You have received a report from the relevant commission. The House of Representatives ratified this agreement. I'm opening a hearing if there is. Mrs. Stojanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4685	Respected gentlemen, the Club of Serbian Delegates in the House of Peoples considered the problem, and it is about this point, or the ratification of this agreement, so I am interested, before we launch a particular initiative on whether this agreement is already in force and whether a commission is formed here in Article 5 of the Interstate Refugee Return Commission. Can anyone answer that question for me? I don't see if there are any.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4686	Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4687	As far as it is understood from the agreement itself, the agreement is in force in the sense that it is actually in force, because it is thus defined by the very text of the agreement. So he's in use. We ratify it according to the information we have. The Assembly of the Republic of Croatia has ratified it before. The House of Representatives also ratified it and we realize it. As far as this committee is concerned, I really don't have the data how the commission works and who makes up the commission. If there are any problems in this sense, I suggest we do the following - give consent to ratification and ask the Council of Ministers to explain to us even if there was a need, and if there is any need for us to discuss possibly the Bosnian Herzegovina side of those, or representatives on the Bosnian Herzegovina side. Why not? Let's open that question. Finally, the commission is one working body foreseen by this agreement. Each party to the agreement shall give its candidates to the Commission, its representatives, and if there are any issues or issues of representation, insufficient representation or something. 33 I therefore propose if there are any objections in that part to agree to ratify the agreement, and then to request an explanation from the Council of Ministers and to take further action as party to the agreement on our part of the agreement. In my understanding, the agreement doesn't have any national, some kind of national omen. He's talking about the refugees, so he's talking about the rights of all the refugees from the two countries, about the position of these refugees, he's bending into the international standards set by the UN and possibly and possibly, if he needs to, we can't make any amendments to the agreement today. If there are any objections we can go further into the procedure, but I think the beginning of the whole story is if we want to change something to ratify the existing agreement and eventually build it up. If it is a matter of application by Bosnia and Herzegovina, then of course we have the right and we should ask our representatives in the Council of Ministers to explain to us what's on Wednesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4688	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4689	...you're a problem. Here I again have no answer as to whether this commission exists, and our proposal, or initiative, was related to the formation of such a commission in front of the Bosnia and Herzegovina's competent ministry to deal with this problem. Well, then I suggest we make this a potential.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4690	To agree on the following, to give consent to ratification and to reach a conclusion and to adopt a conclusion on this item of the agenda and ratification of this agreement that we ask the Council of Ministers to give us an explanation and to make a proposal for the establishment of a commission, if it does not exist. Because I really don't have it right now. Unfortunately, we didn't have any information on the commission. That's perfectly acceptable. I don't think there's anything controversial about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4691	Thank you. Mr. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4692	Thank you. I'll do it very briefly. It's an article 9 you're talking about. I believe that Article 9(1), (2), (3), (4), (6) said that the working group is therefore meeting at the request of one of the Contracting Parties. So this agreement should be ratified in our Parliament as ratified in Parliament, in the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, and then it is a matter of incentives from one side or another. 34 It is therefore seen here in Article 9, paragraph 4, that this working group sets out proposals and recommendations by consensus. Here's Article 5. So I don't think it's a questionable thing and that we can accept this proposal that has been made by the chairman of the relevant committees and give consent to ratification because it doesn't interfere, so we're not losing anything. It is always possible to encourage the work of this task force on the proposal of one of the signatories from the Contracting Parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4693	Thank you. Here I think we've solved these dilemmas, i.e. small misunderstandings. If so, I call for a plea of consent to ratify the said agreement. You can vote, me with this conclusion, of course, it goes without saying. Thank you. - I konstatirati that we unanimously reached a decision and agreed to ratify the agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the return of refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia. The 13th item of the agenda, Ad.13. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Russian Federation on International Road Traffic You have received a report from the relevant commission. The House of Representatives ratified this agreement. I'm opening a debate. Are there any reports? There isn't. I call for a plea. You can vote now. Thank you. - I konstatirati that we unanimously reached a decision and agreed to ratify the agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Russian Federation on international road traffic. Point 14. Ad.14. Giving consent to ratify VIII amendments to the grant agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the United States for the reconstruction funding programme - the business development programme Report of the relevant commission you received. The House of Representatives ratified this agreement. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I call for a plea of consent. 35 You Can Vote. Thank you. - I agree that we unanimously reached a decision and agreed to ratify the VIII amendment to the grant treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the United States for the reconstruction funding programme – the business development programme. Next, point 15. Ad.15. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Russian Federation on the establishment of an Intergovernmental Government of the Bosnian-Russian Commission for Trade and Economic Co-operation You have received a report from the relevant commission. The House of Representatives ratified this agreement. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I call for a plea to give consent to ratify the agreement. You can vote now. Thank you. - I konstatirati that we unanimously reached a decision and agreed to ratify the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Russian Federation on the establishment of an intergovernmental Bosnian-Russian commission for trade and economic co-operation. Point 16. Ad.16. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Russian Federation on Trade and Economic Cooperation You have received a report from the relevant commission. The House of Representatives ratified this agreement. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I call for a plea to give consent to ratify the agreement. You can vote now. Thank you. - I agree that we unanimously agreed to ratify the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Russian Federation on Trade and Economic Cooperation. Point 17. Ad.17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Credit and Financial Agreement between the Kreditansalt fur Wiederufbau Frankfurt am Main K/W and Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republika Srpska for the rehabilitation of the city waterway in the UN-San region You have received a report from the relevant commission. The House of Representatives ratified this agreement. 36 I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I call for a statement on giving consent to ratification. You can vote now. - I konstatirati that we unanimously decided to give consent to the ratification of the Credit and Financial Agreement between the Kreditansalt Fur Wiederufbau Frankfurt am Main K/W and Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia for the rehabilitation of the city waterway in the UN-San region we came to the last 18th point of the agenda. The chairman of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Mr Čengić, will first address you and explain what this is about. Here you go, Gospodien Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4694	I must first answer the question of my fellow Filipović what it means to rehabilitate the city's plumbing. Given that the Commission has not named this agreement but has received as an official document this agreement, and since it is a special knowledgeer in the language, then I will ask it to consult those who work as translators or translators for the Parliamentary Assembly, and I have information that at this time we do not have any official translator or translator for any foreign language in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We didn't get any lecturers, translators or translators. So we'll get rehabilitated water. What he'll look like I don't know, but Mr Filipović will find the right and the right expression for that rehabilitation. I don't have to worry about that. And now, as regards this point 18, the House's Foreign and Trade Policy Commission initiative to take all necessary action to protect the Herzegovician plains as an authoritative variety of tobacco. So, first of all, I want to say that this is essentially the initiative of our distinguished colleague Tomislav Lim, who initiated the House of Peoples Act in tobacco, and then we are at the last, I think it was the 37th session of the Commission to consider his proposal for a tobacco law with certain conclusions that we are trying to implement as a commission. And at the same time he initiated to certainly launch this initiative. What's the point? The point is that Bosnia and Herzegovina is not only special but also parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina known as producers of quality tobacco varieties, including Herzegovina Ramnjak. We believe and we want to believe and our experts claim that this Herzegovina ramnjak is a domestic autoton variety, which simply through how many years has been developed here and we have come to this variety that is quality and which as such also proved to be in the planting of tobacco in Italy. There is very serious information or information that we can give to the faith that the Italian side is preparing to register this 37-Herzegovian plain internationally as its own autoton variety. If we do not do so as quickly as possible and with the prescribed way, therefore by the competent authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina according to international institutions, then we will come into a situation that is one such important thing that we can be known for not only in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the region, but also in the world that we have one of our own indigenous tobacco varieties, we can very easily lose it. For this reason, the idea was a commission and the commission unanimously adopted this and we propose to the respected colleagues that it now adopt a conclusion that could be said this way – it is asked by the Council of Ministers of BiH and the competent institutions that most urgently, I repeat this most urgently, this must happen before the end of this year that everything that is needed on our part must be completed, taking all necessary activities to protect the Herzegovic plains as authentic Bosnian Herzegovic through domestic tobacco varieties. Which are the competent institutions, it's not ours to prescribe. The Council of Ministers has the mechanisms to initiate this. We consider autotons or authentic, that's very understanding. Okay. Well, we'll say autotons, so a variety of tobacco. I think it would be a good idea for the media to pay more attention to this issue than it is, because it deserves it and I think it would be a good idea to go a little bit into that kind of promotion in that sense, and I believe that before the end of this year, we'll get the law blown and the law on supplementing and amending the Excise Act, where we'll define the question of new excise duties on tobacco to get in a position to have a more favourable position with the manufacturer and at the same time protected by this autoton variety of Hercegovian plains. In that sense, I propose to my colleagues and ask them to give their consent to this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-07-28-0.u4695	I thank Mr. Čengić. We've heard the clarifications. Here, I don't think there are any interested in the debate. The debate is open. If you're not here, I'm calling for a plea. The reading is the conclusion. I don't think there's anything else to explain. I think this is the interest of all of us, the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina, of our producers. I call for a plea. You can make a statement, of course. Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted this conclusion and thus exhausted the agenda of today's session. And I thank all my colleagues and everyone, of course. If it happens, which is very likely that this is our last session before the annual vacation, I want everyone of course a successful and pleasant vacation and I'll see you when we agree, but hopefully not before 28. Enjoy yourselves, have a good time and good-bye. The session was completed at 2:15 p.m.
