ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3968	I invite you to sit down so we can start working. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, your Excellency, honored guests of public information funds, I welcome you all here and I welcome you to open the 37th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At today's session there are 13 envoys, 5 of them from the Bosniak people, three from the Croatian people and three from the Serb people. They justified their absence, justified Mr Goran Milojević and Mr Ilija Filipović, at the Council of Europe meeting in Strasbourg. Before we move to the agenda for today's session, I'd like to ask everyone present to pay tribute to the Cunami victims in Southeast Asia for a minute of silence. Praise them! For the 37th session of the House of Peoples, I suggest the next agenda. Number one, one. Record of the 35th and 36th meetings of the House of Peoples, 2nd. Answers to envoys' questions and envoys' questions, 3. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Import and Export of Arms and Military Equipment Act, 4. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the Value Added Tax Act (VAT), 5. Request of the House of Representatives to consider the Law amending the Law on the workings of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 100 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, 6. Request of the House of Representatives to consider the Law amending the Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 100 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, 7. The request of the Council of Ministers for examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Penal Procedure of the Rapid Procedure, in accordance with Article 99 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and in the Official Journal of the European Union. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 Report on the implementation of the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and international commitments for 2003, 2 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina – First reading, 10. Proposal Budgetary of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2005 – first reading, 11. Proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2005 – first reading, Here is only an inversion of these two laws, so under number 9 and 11. 12. Proposal for uniform rules for the establishment of legal rules in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 13. Report on the work of the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy of the House of Peoples, 14. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes, 15. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes, 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on cooperation on the fight against terrorism, drug trafficking and organised crime, 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Transfer Agreement and the acceptance of persons at the state border between the Government of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Hungary, 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Convention on Transfer of Convicted Persons, 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the joint financing of the maintenance and propulsion of the Comarna-Neum-Mljetski Channel regional drain system, 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of BiH and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Cooperation in 2003, 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Development Credit Agreement (providing urban infrastructure and providing services) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Here's an explanation, so just before the start of our session, the College agreed, and at the request of the Central Bank's representative, that two points, a point under the number of agendas under number 9 and 11. replace their regular posts. It's all the same. So there's no other change. I apologize in my materials is really left out of the 22nd point and I'm going to read it now, so 22 points of the agenda is: 22. Proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 51(1) (a) of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina "The Official Messenger of Bosnia and Herzegovina" No 32/02. I thank Mr. Brk for his intervention. This is the proposed agenda. I'm opening a debate. Okay. Niko one's answering for a hearing. I believe, that is, this agenda has been adopted. 3 We move to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. Records from the 35th and 36th session of the House of Peoples Does anyone appear for discussion, correction or comment of these copies of the record? Unless I suggest we adopt the minutes in the text given. I call for a vote. Now. Until we master a little technique. Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopted the minutes from the 35th and 36th sessions of the House of Peoples. We're moving on to second point. Ad.2. There was no answer to the envoy's questions and the envoy's questions. Who wants to ask an emissary question? Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3969	Thank you very much, Mr. President and Mr. President. My fellow envoys, the esteemed representatives of the Council of Ministers and other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the respected representatives of the international community and the means of public information, I welcome you all together, and I want first of all to the chairman who has taken over from today a lot of success in the work. I will take Iskoristić of this opportunity, although I have also thought about whether it makes sense to ask further parliamentary questions since there is no answer to which we have already asked, but I am encouraged by today's statement in the media from which the crisis is apparent and I expect that the Council of Ministers will answer the following questions 1. How much was registered during 2004 by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for a quantity of money (a) imports into Bosnia and Herzegovina's fruits and vegetables, milk, sugar, edible oil, mineral water, natural water, wine and beer and under (b) exports from Bosnia and Herzegovina fruits and vegetables, milk, sugar, edible oil, mineral water, natural water, wine and beer? 2. What is the value of importing and exporting seeds and fruit material in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2004, so for the past year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3970	Thank you. Who else does? Mr. Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3971	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues, first of all, on behalf of the Bosniak Club, I would like the chair of successful work as was well, and I have one question for the Council of Ministers, for the chairman of the Council of Ministers. At the end of last year, a decision on the harmonisation and determination of customs tariffs for Bosnia and Herzegovina was published in Bosnia and Herzegovina's "Official Messenger of Bosnia and Herzegovina". The decision was long expected to go too far for the reasons of expectations were that some illogicalities in the current tariff were removed, however, by reviewing that decision unfortunately it can be seen that some illogicalities are and could be made up of huge mistakes again. The decision published on 20.12. last year therefore shows that the decision was taken at a Council of Ministers meeting held on 10.11.2004. It is evident that an earlier rate of duty, a high rate, an extremely high rate of additional customs duties, or a break to fresh-dry baker's yeast would continue to be paid. The question for the Council of Ministers is: - What are the reasons or what economic justification has been managed by the Council of Ministers to maintain additional customs duties on baker's yeast in circumstances where there is no domestic production of yeast in Bosnia and Herzegovina for more than 3 years, and the role of over-returns to protect domestic production? Baker’s yeast is used in the production of products, i.e. products of life that this type of approach collects. Enormously high customs protection of non-existent domestic production allows a monopoly position exclusively administratively through products from countries that have signed free trade agreements with BiH while making them more expensive, much better yeast from other European countries by 80%. At the same time for more than 2 years, Bosnia and Herzegovina's Zito Community, the Association of Agricultural and Food Industry of Republika Srpska points to the Council of Ministers for this indifference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3972	I thank Mr. Genjac. Who else wants to ask a question? Here's what I'm gonna ask you. Question and initiative. The issue was addressed to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Communications Regulatory Agency. In fact, about a month ago, a month and a half ago, in the context of a discussion on the introduction of VAT, we were presented with many data that were very and useful and one of these data was also a parallel to how many citizens, residents of Bosnia and Herzegovina use the internet compared to countries in the environment, and then it was said and that, I hope and the truth, unfortunately, and if it is not good for us that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the number of Internet users is relatively the smallest in the environment. Likewise, when we only talked again a month ago about another law on the Law on the Tax on Transport of Products and Services, it was said that certain equipment should be free of taxes, etc. Among other things, there were talks about computer equipment 5, which is certainly very interesting, and yet with the goal of encouraging the greatest use of computer equipment and Internet. I question Bosnia and Herzegovina Communications Regulatory Agency - what are the prices for using internet services in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Are three telecommunications operators even? Why didn't they? Because Bosnia and Herzegovina's Communications Regulatory Agency in accordance with Article 3. Bosnia and Herzegovina's communications law is competent, among other things, to regulate prices, telecommunications operators' services. According to my knowledge, prices are not even and more important prices are relatively high, I think they are unfairly high especially when compared and in absolute terms they are high, and in relative terms, so when we compare how much for the average salary in Bosnia and Herzegovina a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina can get a service using the internet. This was a question. And the initiative that the Regulatory Agency discusses the possibility and determines operators to improve the quality of services and lower prices. Because also the quality of these services is relatively low and prices are high. It's common asphyxiation, it's low connection speed, it's poor antiviral and other protection, etc. etc. Here, I think that and that this is much more important to lower these prices and improve the quality of these services, that it will have better effects and that it will also be stimulating for the greater use of the internet of citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina and will give, I am sure more results than the requirement to free tax equipment computer and other. So this is going to be, I'm sure a much bigger effect will make this kind of decision. Here, that was my question. Thank you. Who else wants to ask a question? Since there are no more reports, we are done with this agenda item. Let's go to the next point, that's point A.3. Report by the Joint Commission on the effort to reach an agreement on the same text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Import and Export of Arms and Military Equipment You have received a Report from the Joint Commission. This Regulation shall enter into The Rules of Procedure must be voted on by the Joint Commission. Information, the House of Representatives adopted the Joint Commission's report on the harmonisation of the texts of the laws. I call for a vote. Vote now. Voting results, 11 against no one, abstentioned no one. Thank you. I agree that we adopted this report and with this adopted report, the Law was adopted in the same text in both homes of the Parlametary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We move to the next item of the agenda number four, 6 Ad.4. The Joint Commission's report on the effort to reach an agreement on the draft text of the Value Added Tax Act (DV) you received the Joint Commission Report. This Regulation shall enter into The Rules of Procedure will vote on the Joint Commission's report. The House of Representatives adopted the Joint Commission's report on the alignment of the text of the Law. We can vote. Vote now. I agree that with 10 votes to one vote against, without the abstentions we adopted the Joint Commission's report in line with this adopted report. The law was passed in the same text in both homes of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly. So the VAT Act has finally been passed. Thank you. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, it's Ad.5. Request of the House of Representatives to consider the Law amending the Law on the workings of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 100 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the People's House in accordance with Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on the requirement for the Law to be considered in accordance with this article after the debate. I'm opening the debate. Who wants to talk? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're pleading a request. Who's in? You can vote now. I agree that with 10 votes in favour, without votes against and abstentions, we have adopted a request from the House of Representatives to discuss the Law on the Labour of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the hasty procedure in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Now we're discussing the law. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. We're pleading to the law. Who's in? You can start voting now. I find that with 11 votes in favour, with no abstentions and no votes against the passed Law amending the Law on the work of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by a hasty procedure and the law has finally been adopted. Thank you. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda. Ad.6. Request of the House of Representatives to consider the Law amending the Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 100 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the House shall decide on the requirement for the Law to be considered in accordance with this article after the debate. 7 I'm opening the debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Boško Šiljegović. Mr. Vinko Radovanović, excuse me. Here you go, Mr. Radovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3973	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the club of delegates in the order of the Serb people supports the proposed changes. However, we believe that there are a few other things in this law that should be corrected by this amendment. Even the proposed amendment goes through several of the following members in this law, so we propose a regular procedure to repair this law in a few more members and then adopt it in the final text. Then with the House of Representatives agreeing, there wouldn't be any problem with the final adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3974	I thank Mr. Radovanović. So in order to do this as Mr. Radovanović suggested I propose, we will actually make a statement about the request and if we reject the request then we will go to regular procedure. So just to clarify, I think we all understand that, so if we reject this request, we vote against, then what we've determined is, I suggest that it go into regular procedure and then we can act more amendment to this law. Mr. Genjac wants to talk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3975	I support this idea. It is a matter of adopting this law on one act, so under Article 100, it would lead to the adoption of a law that has a series of technical and large and material errors and does not cover all necessary amendments to the law. That is why we feel that it would be good for this law to be directed into a regular procedure and thus to improve the law itself through the Commission's amendment phase and some other amendments to the law are covered by this amendment law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3976	I thank Mr. Genjac. So, on the same background as Mr. Radovanović. Anyone else want to talk about this law? No more reports. I call for a plea. So we are pleading on the request of the House of Representatives to go on a brief, hasty procedure, if it means we reject the request then we have a regular procedure which was the request of Mr Radovanović and Genjac. 8 Affidavit can begin. Vote now. So we're voting against it. Unanimously against it. So request 10, pardon 1 abstention, so 10 v, 1 abstention. We have rejected the request for a House of Representatives to consider under Article 100, and now this draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law goes into regular procedure. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda, Add.7. The request of the Council of Ministers for examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Penal Procedure of the Rapid Procedure, in accordance with Article 99 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the House of the Peoples are therefore to be discussed whether the law will be considered in a shortened manner. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3977	...the requirement for this law to be considered in accordance with Article 99. Namely, the reasons are, this law is needed, there is a need to be adopted as soon as possible, but there is a need for certain improvements to the effects that are possible in the process under Article 99.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3978	Thank you. Who else wants to talk about this request, actually the law? No more reports. We are pleading on the request of the Council of Ministers. You can vote now. Thank you. I agree that, unanimously with 11 votes, without abstentions and without opposition, we have adopted the request of the Council of Ministers to review the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedures under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Moving to the eighth point of the agenda, Add.8. A report on the implementation of the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and international obligations of BiH for 2003 has been presented to us by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency. This Regulation shall enter into We have to vote on the Rules of Procedure's report. 9 The House of Representatives adopted a report on the implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget and international commitments for 2003. I'm opening a debate. Mr. brkati. Mr. brkati, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3979	The Finance Commission, I welcome you all first, and then the Commission for Financial and Administrative Affairs of the National Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina adopted at its 24th session held in 18.1.2005, under Article 79(2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina Report on the implementation of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budgets and international obligations for BiH in 2003. Members of the Commission expressed dissatisfaction with this late report. The Commission accepted the report and delivered it to the People's House in a further procedure recommending that Dom accept it, but to protest the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina for this long delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3980	I thank Mr. Brk on behalf of the Commission has submitted a report. Who else wants to talk? Mr Tomislav Limov. Here you go, Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3981	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, of course, will not respect the comments of my colleague Zrna, yet I will, above all, support the reasoned dissatisfaction of our commission and indeed say one of my dilemmas about how meaningful it is today at the end of January 2005 to discuss a report relating to the implementation of the 2003 budget. More than that, and this is evident from the documents submitted to us only in May 2004 and only October 7th, the Bureau adopted this report and I wonder if it was necessary for the Bosnia and Herzegovina Secretariat to send this report to the Parliamentary Assembly, whose service it was protocold on 14 December last year. That's why I'm not going to vote for the adoption of this report, but not only of course, because I'm first of all convinced that this presidency did it on purpose. So it has been spent so many months on purpose, and I will remind you that on 7 June 2004, the Audit Office submitted its business audit report to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency in 2003, and later we received audit reports for other institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, I will also remind you of the findings of the audit, what were the views of our envoys and, of course, it is also known what attitudes were about it and the House of Representatives, so the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, both of them had a certain critical relationship with the fact that, for example, the Presidency acted uneconomically; without internal control; it violated the rules on public procurement; it failed to make recommendations for the 2002 revision. 10 years; it did not respect the Parliament Assembly's decision, this parliamentary assembly on the reduction of the 2003 budget; excessively and unintendedly spent budgets; it illegally transferred and did not return any surplus funds to the budget; it did not agree with the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury with the change in the structure of the budget; no one was responsible for overcoming the budget by 450 thousand KM etc. etc. I am, of course, also using this opportunity to condemn all those in other institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina who have been doing illegal business, but it is evident that the Presidency is a champion of illegality, irrationality, luxury and unfair relations with budgetary means. No one's answering about the no, it's quite clear. Examples of illegal payment of an account for Section 2,121,00 mark, golden Juveral product 15,066,00 marks, nalifper 2.215,00 marks, repairs of one vehicle 32,882 marks, car tyres, fuel consumption, and you remember that one vehicle spent both diesel and gasoline on the same day, and of course the bill was paid, etc. etc. This is the content of the report, although it does not stand in it of course, but it stands, therefore, in the review report, and I personally believe that by accepting such a report today, after all this time, it would practically be an adjudication of illegality and therefore, of course, I will not vote in favour of such a report.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3982	Who else wants to talk? Mr. Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3983	This report, of course, cannot be considered separately from the audit findings. In the context of reviewing the findings of the auditors, we have adopted the conclusion that all institutions that are beneficiaries of the budget provide a report on what they have done to sanction and prevent, sanction infringements in the handling of the budget and prevent future violations. It was at one of the previous sessions, and of course we haven't received an answer yet. I have an understanding that it's gonna take a while. That's one thing. It's another thing. I think the first page of this report should at least state why this report is delivered to the Parliamentary Assembly so late. At least the reasons. And for all the reasons, since I don't have a reason, I don't have, I don't know why it's so late, and I'd have to know before I say it, and since I don't have how the reports are, that sanctioning is violations in institutions, I should have at the time of the confession, and all of these reports I can only be abstentioned about this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3984	I thank Mr. Genjac. Who else wants to talk about this report? Since there are no more reports, we will approach the vote on the report. You can vote now. Let's just officially publish the results, see them. So 7 for, 2 against, 2 abstentions. The report was adopted by the majority of votes has an entity's total majority. 11 Mr. Brka wanted it. Mr. brkati, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3985	...to accept the position of the President's lateness office this much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3986	We'll talk about the conclusion. That's the conclusion. I now call for a statement on the Commission's conclusion in the text that it was just read by Mr. Brka. We're voting on the conclusion. Who's in? You can vote. Here I find that the conclusion read by Mr Brka on behalf of the Commission is addressed to the Presidency with 10 votes in favour and with one vote with abstention adopted. That would end up with this agenda point. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda. It says, Ad.9. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the BiH Central Bank Act, first reading, you received the law as a report from the competent commission. This is the first reading of the law, Article 90. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. A trustee's home passed this law in both readings with 13 amendments. The Commission for Finance and Administrative Affairs of the People's House adopted 13 amendments that became an integral part of the text of the law. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. brkati, here's your brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3987	I don't want to repeat what you said. The Commission discussed this. She's adopted 13 amendments. I'm just gonna show one question here, not to mention her. Namely, in Amendment XI, when it comes to the distribution of a pure profit from the Central Bank, under b) on the proposal of Mr Kozarić, who is here and I am glad that he is there, so he will be able to explain it better than I do. Here it was adopted in one text at the House of Representatives, I'll read that it's easier to explain. The rest of the net profit is allocated so that 40% of the Governing Council deploys its Decision to increase capital and reserves for the Central Bank's general reserves, and 60% of the Central Bank is paying into account the institutions in charge of the BiH Budget for a period of 4 months after the end of the financial year. On the proposal of Mr Kozarić, these two words, the General Reserve of the Central Bank, are the new text that we adopted. It said it was adopted in the House of Representatives for special purposes, and now it needs to be brought together somehow. Because we haven't acted here in amendment, and that's why I'm putting this as a problem, not to be in different texts. So I suggest that this one finds the right solution, to be adopted like this. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3988	I thank Mr. Brk. We adopted in the correct text, therefore, the general reserve, not the special purpose, but because they adopted the House of Representatives differently, it is still necessary because of the different expressions, the Commission for Harmonization, but we will end it. Here, I use the opportunity to invite the Central Bank's representative to briefly tell us about the law and perhaps something else if he thinks it's interesting from the work and business of the Central Bank. Mr. Kozarić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3989	I'd like to thank the chairman. Honored representatives of the House of Peoples, it is an honor and a pleasure to have the opportunity to address you at the beginning of the term of office, and here is a few words about this Act amending the Central Bank Act. What Mr. Brka was saying, it is only said to be a word – special replacement in – general. This is in the interest of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as special reserves would not go towards capitalisation of the bank's monetary and capital ratios. And when they're general these special reserves are only used in special cases when something doesn't come. And the general reserves enter into this relationship and it is more favourable for future accounting in the coming years. On that side, we didn't want to freeze those funds, which remain in the Central Bank, and I thank you for the commission's acceptance of it, that's our suggestion. Of course, I wouldn't comment on this replacement of this percentage. It was our desire to be 40 and 60 in favour of the Central Bank, but since the threshold remains 5% of the capitalisation, it ensures that the Central Bank will not get into trouble, so to speak, in its business. So, after capitalisation of 5%, there is a profit distribution in this relationship as amended. That's when it comes to profit. When it comes to supervision, this law had a part and it talks about supervision, and I have to be honest that we are sorry that it happened, I would say, misunderstandings and interpretations that the procedure was not respected, because certain exports to the House of Representatives, and that has happened again in the House of Peoples, we have been objected to the procedure, i.e. that we had no decisions by the entity's parliamentarians to transfer that part of jurisdiction to the state, and that means that supervisory is not... finance and entity jurisdiction. We had one conclusion of the entity.. The RS which is wide-ranging and we interpreted it as consent. We also know that the PRSP strategy was adopted at the entity level and we thought we had some political support for the project. Since the Bureau is the legislator of this law, the conclusion is identical that it was at the House of Representatives to return to the Proposer and that a 30-day deadline is evident under the proposal. I don't think the project is, I'd say, I think it's just delayed and we'll have a chance to talk about the supervisory model again, it's this process, less and less commercial banks, and I'm convinced that the time will come for the agencies themselves to be inside the Central Bank, because there won't be enough commercial banks that can pay those agencies. So this is a professional approach. We really didn't want to, maybe this 13 law wasn't at the right time in the parliamentary procedure because of all the situations that are going on in BiH, but I don't think this is the end of this project, so we're experiencing it in the Central Bank. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3990	I thank Mr. Kozarić. Mr. Čengić wants to talk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3991	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community, media representatives, I am taking the opportunity to welcome you all. At first, I would also like to congratulate Mr. Velimir Jukić on taking office as chairman of this house. I wish him a successful chairmanship and successful work of the House during the period he chaired, as he was in earlier periods and I want to take advantage of the opportunity to say that, indeed, it is necessary for us as a home, especially as our chairmanship of the House, regularly, in quality, justified by facts and statistics to show the results and success of this home. I think the public is kind of getting used to our quality work, so it's almost not being seen, which I don't think is good. It should be pointed out, therefore, that the efficiency of the work of this home and I would take this opportunity to ask Mr. Chairman and the College that, as soon as possible, and certainly by the end of the next session of the House, we should review once again what obligations we have undertaken, when it comes to the tasks of the European Commission and what tasks we have not yet completed, so that we should put them in priority, to find solutions, and my information is all about two laws, which have not yet been solved. Of course, we are not the only factor in this process of passing these laws, but I believe that our experience and determination can be very important in speeding up this process and bringing the end of such an important task as to carry out obligations to the European Commission, which I think is at the end. Secondly, I am taking the opportunity to also, with a certain delay of formal, but a good opportunity to congratulate Governor Kemal Kozarić on taking over the management of the Central Bank, and I think that this is also an important moment for Bosnia and Herzegovina, so this is the first time from Dejton to today that the first man, the most important financial institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina, takes over Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the sense that its citizens chair the institution. This is an extremely important fact, but first of all, the data that means that in our overall engagement, both the BiH state and the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, and especially the people who have worked from Dayton to the present day in the Central Bank, we have done a significant job, that we have obtained conditions of both formal and real nature or nature, therefore, from those prescribed Dayton Agreements, but to those most important results in the process of rebuilding the state, strengthening the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and fulfilling the obligations that are at the Central Bank of BiH, that we have come to the situation to take over the leadership of such important institutions. Of course, I am convinced that Mr. Kozarić, who has an extraordinary experience in every sense respective and professionally and humanely will do everything to not only continue positive flows in the Central Bank, but, in fact, that the Central Bank is slowly from the position of the karensibord to translate into a position that usually has central banks in democratic countries or countries in the world. It's, of course, a serious job. It's an important job, it's a job that can't be done by the Central Bank itself, but as a competent institution and as 14 institutions that have the staff, it must, in my opinion, take the process and encourage it. In this regard, I expect that the Central Bank will give that incentive and initiate and, I believe, will find in this home not only someone who will be a talker, but someone who will support these positive processes. As far as this law is concerned, I would like to say that it is important that at this time we get this law with amendments, which are formally small, but in terms of changes in the number of amendments, or in terms of changes in the number of members, which are touched by amendments in this law, but it is important that these changes make it impossible for us to make part of the profits achieved through the work of the Central Bank to be placed in Budget, in such a way that, in fact, the Central Bank is one of those factors in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which, in fact, contributes to the service of public needs of public institutions. There's no dilemma, and I'm sure all my colleagues will support it. I, however, want to take the opportunity to say next. I am surprised by the fact that the second part, which is the second part of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Central Bank, which has not passed, and as far as supervisory is concerned, has therefore not been given the necessary majority in the House of Representatives or the House of Peoples, and I am surprised by the fact that the objections which have been made, have become an obstacle to the amendments to the law in part of the transfer of supervisory powers from entity agencies to the Central Bank. Why am I surprised? I am surprised because the formal proposer of this law is the BiH presidency. I am surprised that at the time this law was initiated, the Central Bank had a very clear picture of the structures and relations in BiH and had a very clear picture of constitutional rights and competences in BiH and had to know where the main obstacles were hiding. In this regard, I believe that the bank's previous leadership, and the current leadership, or current BiH presidency, has made inadmissible failures, that it has allowed this law to appear in the procedure without having made the necessary preparations for it to be supported. It is particularly important to stress that this law, according to the information I have not been initiated by OHR, was in some way OHR, of course not against, but did not consider it necessary to engage in the process. The fiasco of these changes or these changes, in fact, unfortunately re-gives, sheds light on BiH's internal relations, and in some ways the determination and responsibility of certain institutions within BiH. I can't keep it quiet and I don't think it's a good sign of our condition and our relationship, and I don't think it's a good sign that we can have laws here, just laws that support OHR, and those where OHR doesn't engage, we can't have, especially when I haven't heard that the objections to these amendments and supplement laws are related to the supervision of professional nature. That they are of a principled nature in terms of bad solutions, which these changes offer. It's principled nature. So, founded nature, in the sense that no preconditions for transferring competences from entities to BiH have been secured and, to conclude. I believe that this situation we currently have is only temporary, and I call on all those in charge, including this House and the Parliamentary Assembly, to make additional efforts, to find solutions that will enable the BiH-level supervisory system, which is of multiple importance, which I would not ever come into the situation to discuss today, but which not only gives one more quality role and position to the Central Bank, but in another way puts BiH's position towards foreign investors. This is very important and this is for the further development of BiH, for increasing employment, for reducing deficits, trade deficits and all other economic parameters, if you want social and political importance. 15 For this reason, I would ask the central bank gentlemen, that what is currently weaker, therefore, is that I have not provided the majority in any of the two homes of the Parliamentary Assembly for amendments to the law regarding pervision and not discouragement, but to re-initiate the process, but to ask the Presidency this time not only a formal, but an essential role in resolving previous political issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3992	I thank Mr. Čengić. Who else wants to talk? No more reports, we'll join the vote on the law in the first reading. So we're voting on the law in the first reading. You can vote now, first reading. I thank and realize that with 10 votes for, without votes against and abstentions, we adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. I'm voting on a proposal to go to another reading. You can vote now. I find that with 11 votes for, without votes against and abstention, we have adopted a decision to go to another reading. That's when the second reading started. Anyone reporting for a discussion in the second reading, there is a debate on amendments and votes on the law. If there are no reported, and there are no, I invite you to enter a plea on the law in the second reading. You can vote now. I find that with 11 votes for, without votes against and abstention, we passed the law in a second reading. And since it's been adopted in various texts, I suggest we immediately appoint a Commission to bring the text of the laws into line. Mr. Genjac,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3993	The Bošnjak Club is proposing Mr. Brk.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3994	Thank you. Mr. brkati, Mr. Spajić,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3995	Here, I suggest, I'll be a member of the commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3996	Okay, thank you, Mr. Ante Sapjić. Mr. Šiljegović,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3997	Mr. Goran Milojević 16
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3998	Mr. Goran Milojević. Let's just figure it out. So the commission proposed Mr. Osman Brka, Mr. Ante Spajić, Mr. Goran Milojević. Who's in favour, are we voting on the commission? You can vote now. I agree that, most of the vote by 10.1 against, we also adopted the proposed Commission for the Consensus of Laws. Thank you. Moving to the next 10th item of the agenda, Add. 10. The draft budget of the BiH institutions of international commitments for 2005, the first reading, you received the budget as a report from the competent commission that adopted five amendments to the draft budget adopted by the same amendments at the House of Representatives. The first is the debate on the necessity and principles on which the draft budget is based. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? The committee in charge, Mr. Osman Brka.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u3999	Thank you. The Committee for Financial and Administrative Affairs of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH held at its 24th session, held on 18.01. In 2005, she discussed in accordance with Rule 69 of Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH Proposal for the Budget of the BiH institutions and international commitments for 2005, whose proposal for the Presidency of BiH, delegates Velimir Jukić, Brka, Mr Branko Zrno, Tomislav Limov, we tabled amendments to the text of the bill. My amendments were denied, one I pulled. The amendments to the Lim delegates were rejected except for one. The amendments of the delegates Jukić and Zrn have been accepted. The Commission unanimously accepted the amendments that have become an integral part of the text of the draft law, and delivered them as such to the House of Peoples and in further procedure, and these are now these amendments. And I'd like to say something, uh, not to speak again. The Commission finally adopted two conclusions and before I read them, I would like to explain something. In this regard, the Commission found that in the proposal for this, there was a violation of Article 9 of Article 2 and we therefore proposed a conclusion unanimously on the Commission, which I will now read and it read – in the implementation of the budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2005, it is necessary to take strict account of the respect of the BiH Constitution. We believe, as a committee, we have unanimously concluded that we must say this and that we are not behind the fact that in the implementation of the budget the Constitution is being violated. Why didn't we do the amendment? We didn't want to be an obstacle to the adoption of the budget, even though that was the amendment that we have on the commission of this one, we decided not to discuss it, that we would refuse it simply not to put it in the procedure, so that it wouldn't be us who is holding back the adoption of the budget. But we have strictly stated that this conclusion should go here to Parliament and I hope that you will accept that conclusion. 17 And we adopted another conclusion because we had a play, a letter from one of our services to The Hag is whether, from the institutions above, having problems with funding and that other conclusion we also adopted unanimously and it is said – that in the implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2005 the security and the provision of financial resources, respectively, the conditions for the smooth and normal work of the Office of Liaison Officers in The Hague. We also accepted that, and I suggest to the House that these two conclusions be accepted with this, this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4000	I thank Mr. Brk. Who's next to the word? Or we'll call the promoter out. Here is my suggestion... and I suggest that, on behalf of the Proposer, Deputy Minister Kumalic, Mr Kumalić present the draft budget briefly.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4001	I want to welcome everyone present and wish the chairman the successful leadership of the House of Peoples. To say right away, that the budget in the context of the 2005 budget of the BiH state does not meet all the objectives in the context of fiscal policy. These objectives are known to be fiscal, development and social. We can conclude that the planned budget of 581 million, of which for the financing of institutions is 336 and for the external debt of 244 million, practically meets fiscal obligations only in a certain way. Furthermore, to note, if we look at this budget in the context of the central countries' budget in the EU's transition countries, then we see that only 10% of the budget is waste, which is a reflection of the structure, the organisation structure of the BiH state. However, it should be noted that it still has a trend of growth compared to 2003 when that percentage was only 8%. We are witnessing that in recent years certain functions have been formed,.. new BiH institutions are being transferred to the state level, so that the planned budget has an increase of 21%. The third feature, in my opinion, is that for the first time, BiH is practically financed from its own income, or that the indirect taxes of 251 million will be financed by institutions and that BiH institutions have a priority in financing from indirect taxes, and then external debt. This 21% increase should otherwise be noted that the International Monetary Fund is coordinating budget building, that the budget has been made together with entities and that it is practical for all of these to so say the figures are consistent with entities. An increase of 21% of the total budget came primarily due to the formation as we have said, new institutions or enlargements, that is the Ministry of Defence, that is the Directorate for indirect taxation, now practically the largest budget consumer, that is, the Ministry of Security, the FIPA Agency and the other 18 smaller institutions, so that the total number of over 48% in the proposal but if the Commission for concessions is included there, it means it is already almost 49% of the institutions that are beneficiaries of the budget. The next feature of this budget is that it is balanced, that we have no deficit, and it should be looked back at, that the external debt to be in our favor, since it is mostly back in dollars, a low rate of dollars, so it is practically 244 million. If we remember earlier projections, since the dollar didn't fall, that would be 50 million and more. As for this foreign debt, the Federation wastes 151.6 million, to Republika Srpska 92 million. It should also be noted that under pressure, i.e. on the suggestions of the entity and the International Monetary Fund, the monetary mass for wages is reduced by 10%, that this applies to civil servants and other employees, and that it will be seen whether there is a legal basis for this to apply to electoral persons as well. I, as far as the budget is concerned, wouldn't say anything more than we're at your disposal in the debate, so we're going to be making further clarifications eventually. And there are associates, so I just mentioned these fundamental characteristics.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4002	I thank Mr. Kumalić. Mr. Limov.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4003	Thank you, Mr. President. I, of course, know that the preparation of the budget is not only in our country but also in modern countries, one very complex and difficult job and I respect the urge to make one proposal in the context of a number of limited elements. Either I thought, or I understood Mr. Kumalić well, this budget does not meet the fiscal, development and social objectives. So I heard well, and I also heard from our esteemed chairman of the commission who warned that conclusion, pointed to something called the constitutional provision and as far as I'm concerned, but that would be enough to start not only to express dissatisfaction, but also to make it very clear that I am not prepared to support this budget. Of course, I haven't renewed my amendments because I've seen about the mood and commitment of our commission that has come from no matter what, it's necessary for this budget to be adopted and I don't doubt, of course, that it will happen today. But anyway, I want to point out a few things that, as far as I'm concerned and, of course, by a clue are what I've tried through my amendments to say, first, fix or give a different dimension. Of course, if I get this right, dear colleague Brk, then it's done with what the prominent prime minister has now said it needs to be looked at constitutionally, but the whole figure is about 17 whether or not 16 I don't know millions, which would be saved, if this payment reduction is accepted by 10%, it's very simple whether, although Mr. Kumalić used the expression mass, whether the weight of the funds. There's two reasons. 19 The first is the reason it came as, I saw it as an ultimatum of the entity, and the second reason, maybe I figured it out well, it further strengthens me in the determination not to accept it, that's the first reason. And secondly, I think that those working in BiH institutions should be stimulated, and I'm not quite sure that this is going in that direction for stimulation. So, I don't mean the officials here, but the overall structures at the level of the BiH state. And I mean, it's basically one commitment that goes in this way in my opinion in the wrong direction. I would rather deal with how to reward those who succeed in some of the 300 million that the Honorable Prime Minister of the Federation last year publicly expressed as what is called whether, black, gray however you want the economy, which, of course, is hand in hand very often with crime, corruption and those elements that we need now to take away 10%. So, in principle, there are big dilemmas and fences and there are ways to get away from us, elected officials and further contribute in this sense. So there's a way by the Constitution and the possibility that we can, therefore, agree and accept this fact that with 10% of our own incomes we can contribute to certain segments, but then we need to make that clear, which is what it is. Whether these are social funds, is it stimulating those who are successful in what I have indicated by warning, pointing to one statement, and surely the Federation Prime Minister did not say it lightly. I stand by and share his opinion that there are appropriate spaces. This is how the budget, so with what I've just said, will not lead to a reduction in public spending because otherwise, I have tried on several occasions to warn that in the implementation of these reforms, we give up the claim that we are building institutions at a state level and that everything remains the same at lower levels. Because it just can't. And in this respect, I had even one amendment that had the ambition to warn the need to, therefore, when state institutions take over certain relevantness, that it automatically implies a completely different relationship, so if you want funding, etc. at lower levels. It also applies to the employment of whether it is. So, I just feel like when we have to deal with what's called public administration reform. Of course, I don't have any need, I trust Mr. Kumalić that none of these three key elements, therefore fiscal, developmental and social or objective, however you wish, can we fill this up and this has been going practically for years that we're doing these things in a way that we're surviving and actually if we look at this, for example in the last five years, then we're going to see where we're actually going and how much our deficit is growing. Of course, while there's no talk of reduction, I didn't get the impression, I didn't see enough elements here, so that even with these restrictions, we could achieve what we need and what we want. Of course, I saw from the agenda of the funds allocated to certain institutions, that what was reminded of me by a respected colleague of Genjac, when he said that we had determined on the debate on audit reports which, therefore, the conclusion of the House of Nations is binding on those who make such proposals, which means that those who did business illegally cannot be rewarded and can not be afforded more funds in this year and I have seen, here I am now not too much of this one, aimed at one institution, there is therefore an institution in which the business of the previous year has been determined certain illegalities, and now whether or not they have received more funds. So I'm not gonna single out any of them, you less respected colleagues know better, because you must have been looking at this, too. 20 There are indeed several such items that confuse me personally, this is the kind of expression that is the most painless at this point in time to use. For the overall activity of the start of Stabilisation and Association negotiations with the EU budget, 150 thousand marks are foreseen. I think it's too small. Now I will not explain why and what I think and what we see that other countries that are in a similar situation or just ahead of us, it would be good for us to use the experience and those countries that are being prepared in a particular procedure, invest the appropriate funds in the budget and predict, look for the most capable personnel, the people who engage in this, from lobbying and beyond. As far as PRSP is concerned, I guess his passing ended... that's how it was this year. As for stimulating, here's how I got it out of me, stimulating domestic production, it's supposed to be 40,000 KM, right? It's not. So I'm hoping that you'll take some numbers to make me think that this is far more. As far as consulting services related to corridor VC budget are concerned, 100 thousand KM is forecasted. I personally think that this was the year 2005 when we had to increase this number several times, at least several times, through the activities that would be conducted in this year and in terms of realising and starting a serious realization on this project. So we also had to send an appropriate message through the budget. I disagree with the arguments that it's only important that we have an attitude. I think we need to make sure that it's meaningful and to what extent the work on this is gonna be serious. As far as informing society, I guess I've seen it well, ten thousand KMs are scheduled. As far as I know, there have been some amendments and I don't know in the final text I have to say there's been a mood to increase this number, too, multiple increases. Now one thing, if that's all it was, it would be enough for me to be against. So, if this was all I was saying and what the predecessors were saying, it would be against me, and I want to make a statement here on this occasion, which is financing cultural and scientific inconsistencies of interest for the BiH state. It's quite clear that I don't know, a million and as far as it's supposed to be, can't guarantee survival. Maybe the best expression is survival because the fact that some of these institutions are after 100 and a few years, these days whether they're closed. I think, so here's the Earth Museum, I don't know the University Library, etc. After all, let's open a debate about this, let's see what it is of interest for BiH, that there is no, if there are any political dilemmas here, to clarify this, but if there is, let's be clear, let's say that we are committed to taking over as a state to finance it in one civilizational, thorough way consistent with this time of the beginning of the 21st century, regardless of all the weight and all the difficulties and difficulties we have in financing not only these but other things at all. So here are some of the elements that make me naturally dissatisfied, although I appreciate all the new things that are expressed through that 251 million. So I wish it was far more and I even think it's an appropriate organisation, professionalization, etc. an institution at the level of the BiH state we can achieve far more here. Secondly, I wasn't exactly getting up to recognize the extent to which the positive characteristics of the application in the second half of the year of VAT will reflect on the means that we're going to get is, I personally expect that it will be whether, I didn't notice that this, we have a certain clear vision of what it will be and how much of it will be and what we're going to do with it. So, there are no programs, no laws, no, we're not even getting up to ratify the Social Charter of the Council of Europe, which will certainly imply our own reality to adopt at the state level, for example, a law on 21 social protection, and then whether, in any case, we'd have to look for the right social charter with... well, it would be the answer that rebalancing or I don't know what it's going to be, but in any case, I'd like it to have more content and concretely embedded and this one, in any case, would help us all and in some way motivated us to act differently than I will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4004	I thank Mr. Limov. We have Mr. Đoka Pajić, Mustafa Pamuk and Mr. Ćengić reported. I'm saying this because we're planning to have a break from here until about 2:30, there's a meeting agreed by the College at 1:00, so I suggest we go now even though one of you, Mr. Đoko, did you think longer or shorter, if you're longer, then we'll be back. All right, then here we are, now it means break by 2:30. We continue with our session. [[PAUZA]] Secretary, I invite you to take your place. We are at the 10th item of the agenda, the Budget of the BiH Institutions and the International Obligations of BiH for 2005. The debate is under way. It's Mr. Đoko Pajić's turn. Here you go, Mr. Pajić. Let Mr Mustafa Pamuk prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4005	Dear guests, I'd like to take maybe six or seven minutes. First of all, I'd like to remind you, and we all know that by Article 101. The Rules of Procedure of the House of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly, meaning this House, where it stands, by October 15th, we should have a draft budget before the Parliamentary Assembly, which we should be able to hold in time to hold discussions and by the scheduled deadline, on December 31st, we should certainly clarify many things and then adopt it in one normal parliamentary procedure, one of the most significant acts brought by this Parliament. It is certainly the Budget Institution of BiH. So right away at the beginning, just to point out, it means that this article was violated by 101. The Rules of Procedure of this House. Why do I say that? It's hard for me right now at this point to have a draft budget first reading, and for some information, we should definitely adopt it today in the second reading. For those who have prepared this budget, it is certainly clear that this is a very significant large document and takes a long time to make it. Certainly to those who worked on this project, I don't know how long it took them, but for at least 2-3 months sure, to do this draft budget of the institutions, and for us here are the MPs who finally need to adopt it, there's only one day left. I want to start by saying that to me, I haven't been able to do so in such a short time since we got this budget, so to this day, to realistically look at all the indicators in this budget, and I have certain dilemmas and ambiguities about certain items in the budget with certain budget users. I was, of course, thinking before the session of the Financial Administrative Commission, about putting in certain amendments, but at the time, it was not clear to me whether my dilemmas that I was thinking about were certain items in the budget or in the budget that I didn't think were logical, I wasn't sure whether I was right or not. So I would like to now at least before we move on to the second reading to ask a few questions to the proposings, or 22 who have been working on this project, that before I approach the vote to clarify certain dilemmas that are now present to me. First of all, I'd start with one basic note. You've all read it, but I have to remind you again. Below, at the bottom of this page is the structure of the expenditure of budgetary users does not allow for significant savings on material costs, so that more savings are possible in part of the salary and compensation, and this adapts the dynamics of employment to real income sources and the reduction of employees' salaries, etc. Budget projections per user were developed with the assumption of a linear wage reduction for all employees of BiH institutions by 10%, etc. Now, I have no doubt it should be done. We will certainly accept that, but looking at certain items in the budget of certain budget users, this is not clear to me, because there I saw that these things are more concrete, that some budget users have an item of current expenditure below 1, gross wages go significantly higher in certain budget users, so I don't understand, I'll probably get clarifications before we go to the vote. And on the other hand, in addition to the pay limits, there must be a reduction of at least 10% and additional fees... on salaries. And I have also seen with many budget beneficiaries that these fees have been significantly increased in the 2005 Draft of this budget compared to the 2004 budget. Well, here's why I'm going to ask certain questions. Now, I don't know how short you can send it away like this, but I'm going to start with Article 3 of the budget-user budget-based income allocations and still the other members. Let's say now in Article 3 under 2 of the BiH Presidency, let's say if I can get an update under current expenditures point 3 of the travel cost of which is a 132% growth index compared to the previous year. Are these some special travel expenses, special travel, something specific this year compared to last year? Well, that's not clear to me, and that's the same thing in that article in the Bureau under current contract and other special services, the index of 158% increase compared to the previous year. The next budget user is the BiH Constitutional Court, and we are well on a little break to explain some things, but there are also current expenditures, gross wages and fees, the index of an increase of 142%. We have data there on the number of employees where it is evident that from 31.08 to 31.12 last year 2004, a significant increase in the number of employees in the Constitutional Court of BiH has been seen but an increase in the number of employees is still expected in 2005. And I say here, that item means the increase index is 142% compared to last year. And in those basic notes, we saw that it was going to be said to go to pay cuts, to the employment correction in line with the possibilities, etc. The Constitutional Court has been functioning for a long time now, and I need an explanation of why, in 2004 and 2005, the number of BiH Constitutional Court employees is increasing so much? And also in the following paragraph, the BiH Court of Justice well, we know about the increase in gross wages, and I understand why the 155% index is going to the Court of Justice, but in the current expenditures, the same contractual id of the Ruga special service index is 141%) compared to 2004. Next, the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers and offices. The same item current expenditure, contractual and other special services, index 154% increase compared to 2004. 23 Furthermore, below 14 the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments in BiH, current expenditure, and travel costs of the 150% increase index. Costs for telephone services, increase index 140%. Energy and utility expenditure, 189% increase index. And all the way to item 11 of the contract and other special services, the index increase 177% compared to 2004. Now we have the following two items 15 and 16, the BiH Veterinary Office and the Animal Marking Agency. I realize that the Veterinary Office is a new office, the Animal Marking Agency is an agency that's been living since before. In this agency below 16, animal tagging is also a huge cost increase below 9 say, current maintenance costs, the increase index is 575%, under 11 more contractual and other special services, the increase index 296%. And yet now I don't understand, if we have the Veterinary Office and this Animal Marking Agency, if we've introduced the Veterinary Office, then I don't know why so many increases in expenditures and expenses at the Animal Marking Agency. Next, under regular number 17. The BiH Competition Council. Again, current expenditure under item 11 of the contract and other special services, the index increase 200% compared to last year. Under 18. The Ministry of Communications and Transport, one item also under current travel expenses. The increase index 219% compared to 2004 and so on with other items in current expenditure. But, well, there's less left to accept, but I don't understand this increase index for travel costs of 219%. Regulatory Agency for Communications, again current expenditure, again under 11 contract and other special services, index increases 149%. And then below 21. The Ministry of Finance and Treasury, again current expenditure, paragraph 11. Contracting and other special services, 154% increase index. The Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees is below 23 employees' costs, an index of 146%. And yet in that mass (?) The notes said that part should be reduced by 10%. And below 3, also at the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, travel expenses, index increases 163%. The Agency for Investigation and Protection, well, it is a new agency that is expanding, but yet this item below 11 contract and other special services inkeds increases of 206%. State Border Service, a service that already exists, the same current expenditure, again under 11 contract and other special services, an increase index of 224%. Now we come under 34 BiH Election Commission. We know that in 2004, it was an election year and that the Election Commission had a lot of work to do and that it was logical to have increased costs in 2004. But here, now for 2005, when I think all these costs in the Election Commission should be significantly reduced, compared to 2004, certain items are increasing again and I don't know why, again, the travel expenses in the BiH Election Commission are increasing by 142% compared to 2004. 24 And the next item also in the Electoral Commission, expenditure on telephone and postal services, again the 122% increase index compared to 2004 which was electoral. And I would like to ask another question, with the 9992 reservation, there is a reason for the reservation for old obligations, and there are reserved old obligations regarding potential obligations under court disputes against BiH. So 4 million 642 thousand marks. I am now interested in knowing what court disputes these are, and is this pre-planned that if there are, what are claims against the state of BiH and that these court disputes are planned to be lost and that such fees will be paid. I'm interested in information only what is it? Now that we add it all together, I would now return to Article 3 point 2.2 of the summary cost balance by economic category. What I asked the question, most of it refers to the increase in the cost of contract and special service, among many budget users. And when all these figures are collected, it turns out that in the case of contractual and other specific services, the increase in the 2005 budget and the items compared to 2004 is 2 million 177 thousand 231 KM. That's a huge number. I mean, I don't know what's going on, what's planned under those contract and handling special services. I suppose the biggest part of what is there, but I would like to get an answer and why so much enormous increase in this item 11 – current expenditure, among many budget users, although for certain budget users it is commendable, for example, for large, budget users such as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and another part of the budget users, there are reductions in that item compared to 2004, which in any case is commendable. And of course, I'd like as much as I can get at least part of the answer to the questions asked before it goes to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4006	I thank Mr. Đoka Pajić. Mr. Pamuk is giving up. Mr. Ćengić. Mr. Ćengić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4007	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, I am taking the opportunity to congratulate on the fact that today we have the opportunity to discuss the Budget Proposal for this year. Respecting our Rules of Procedure, respecting the fact that it is normal for the budget to be adopted before the start of the fiscal year, I think the fact that we are here today at this stage of the budget, the important fact and the good fact is that this is progress. This does not mean that we should be satisfied and it will be good if next year we really have the opportunity to adopt the budget by 31.12 this year for the following year. But I don't think that's bad. However, I have the impression that the drafter of this budget, although the formal presidency, is I think of the Council of Ministers, is still in the red tape rather than management phase. I have no idea that the Council of Ministers has joined this business as a manager but I have the impression that it has joined as bureaucrat, as a clerk who simply collected figures that appear in themselves with as little idea as possible, with as little news as possible, as they would say in the people as little wave. 25 Of course, I have no idea that I am having a debate about individual issues that could be discussed and items, perhaps I will only make an example of some, but I want to say the following. First of all, I apologize to all of you, and especially my colleague Limov, who actually spoke to most of those attitudes that I had prepared for this discussion, but first of all, this budget is not a developmental one. No credit, no incentive, no nothing. The answer will be very simple, that it should remain on the entities. I don't think it can be that way anymore, since we've been going into the phase since this year that we have the country's original income in the country and since we have the possibility, that's the most important thing, to influence how much income we're going to have. No one since the moment the VAT starts, and today is the big day that we passed the VAT Act, no one can pretend to know him anymore, we have the Tax Act, we have the VAT, we have the excise zakonn code that we need to supplement, none of us can say anymore, we have no money, we can't influence, we can't. We're in effect right now. What is second, and what is also equally important is the fact that we, as a House of Honor, do not treat this issue as a Parliament at all. We treat this issue of socialism as a voting machine. Parliament gives money. Parliament approves of the budget. Parliament determines the budget. Those involved in the preparation know who they are, they make proposals but the Parliamentary Assembly approves. In this sense, this budget is not, therefore, a developmental one, in this sense this budget is not social. If by this year we can defend ourselves, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues who represent both nations and entities and political parties and our friends, acquaintances, voters, etc. If we could defend ourselves by this year that social programs are at entity level, we won't be able to do it from this year on. And we have to make sure next year's budget doesn't look anything like what the budget is for this year. In this regard, therefore, what will happen with the use of VAT and certainly the pressure on certain categories of the population will happen, orate will also be resolved through the state budget. At this time, we prescribe, we pass the law and expect someone else to fix it, that someone else solves issues, therefore, social obligations, social policies, etc. Furthermore, this budget is not even infrastructure. We accepted, we entered the project as a Council of Ministers of Studies and Physibilities of Studies for the largest project in BiH, the highway and we have 100,000 marks. On the other hand, I know that a structure has been built to fund this project, but then it would be good to explain to us how it is possible that the project should be completed, that most of the time in this year or at least 70% in this year, that the jobs that have been done should be paid by the situation and that it will cost a minimum of 20 million KMs and a few million KMs. Where will that money come from if it's not in the budget. Give us a lesson, since we are ignorant or have signed as Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly supports it, most of us in the Parliamentary Assembly support the Council of Ministers, or have signed a contract that we do not intend to implement. That would just be unserious. I think we're going to execute the contract, so we should answer (?). Furthermore, this budget is not very interested in culture because the funds that are allocated to these state institutions are minimal, probably insufficient, and whether we're going to be warmed up in a museum or frozen and this one, exhibits in a museum, I don't know that, but the situation is what it is. All in all, so we have a situation where we experience the culmination of this story through something that is truly amazing. We have this year a draft budget from the Council of Ministers which is directly opposed to the Constitution. I don't know, and I don't understand, on what basis our Commission has been able to give its consent and say that this draft budget is 26 constitutional. If it is not constitutional, it is seen from the part concerning the salaries of employees in state institutions because Article 9(2) states in the Constitution, compensation for persons performing service in BiH institutions cannot be reduced during the service's term of office. And then, our Council of Ministers overruns and boasts that it has accepted a solution by which, for God's sake, it has balanced incomes or incomes in entities at the level of the BiH state. Don't get mad, it's inappropriate, it's rude, it's unserious, it can't fit reality and it can't fit what's supposed to happen. You can interpret it any way you like, you can interpret me as personal, there's no problem with that, I'll be very open. So, we have allowed the Council of Ministers to propose to the Parliamentary Assembly that the Committee of Parliamentary Assembly and even one House of Acceptance, the Commission has made it right for ours to accept the draft budget which is directly contrary to this provision of the Constitution. If we add to that fact, so the idea is, according to some unofficial information, I don't know, that the idea came from the IMF, which has been a lifetime, its whole history since it existed, always has been a reduction, has never been a developmental one, but has actually been a means of braking, freezing existing conditions, preserving existing conditions, reductions, etc. We have now come to a situation that our Council of Ministers does not worry about BiH's sovereignty regarding respect for its own constitution. If the Council of Ministers came to that position, then why couldn't the Council of Ministers propose a non-development budget, which does not care about social issues, which does not care about infrastructure projects that it has only accepted. Of course he can. If you can accept suggestion, suggestion or.... make a proposal to behave counter-constitutionally. It's a scandal, it's inadmissible, it's absolutely unacceptable. I personally don't think there's any way that we can talk seriously about serious things, and the budget, as colleagues have said, is one of the most serious things, which this Parliamentary Assembly can even talk about in one year, to talk about in a way that the proposal itself is counter-constitutional. Why? Because we deal here, when I tell you here, I mean first of all the ones that formally proposed this budget, that is. The Council of Ministers, we deal with these issues in politics, not politics. That's why I said this budget is official and it's not managerial. How? It's very simple. If we planned to introduce VAT in this year, if we have the Act on Excises at BiH level, if we promised, and I think we will keep our promise, that we will implement amendments and additions to the Act on Excises which will provide additional revenue on that basis, then that means that we have also foreseen funds. Which is the logic, please, which is logic other than the logic of exploitation, and pseudosocialism, to ask someone to do more, to make more, to earn more, to have more household relations about common things and to reduce the salary by 10% for what they do. So it's absolutely unacceptable. That's impossible, that's logical, so inexplicable, unfounded. And anyone who tries to blur the public's eyes should go public and tell them what he's doing. And I argue, anyone who has agreed to cut wages to those who care for increased public revenues, to cut wages to those who care for the efficiency of state institutions, to reduce wages to those who need to raise to a higher level the service of the BiH state, each one who says it is a road, directly destroys this state of BiH. So, absolutely and directly. We've been through times of idealism, we've been through times of socialism, we've been through the times that we've talked about, and some of them have been, that it's important to build, so we're going to make money tomorrow. We ourselves have declared this country as a state of market economy, as a state in 27 whose profit motive is, so the driving profit motive, we say it publicly, we don't hide it, and then where the state is, we put the most dangerous of all of the cylinders to government officials to cut wages, and we cut it even more linearly, and then it means who does and who doesn't have the same. So we did the most dangerous thing of all. And then we cover it with a big IMF umbrella. Thank you very much for this IMF, thank you very much for that socialism talk, I said that's pseudosocialism. We need an effective state. An effective state is not in small wages. An effective state is the one that doesn't decide the same thing twice. An effective state is one that does not produce damage and losses, an effective state that effectively uses that money. And what we finally got, if we predicted that we were going to increase budget revenue just by VAT and excise tax this year, most likely by about 170 or more million marks, so whether it's really a logic that we can't give 10% of that income, we can't give 10% to those who made that income. If we don't do it, then we don't understand each other at all, better yet, we're actually doing a job that we know in advance won't work and we're doing it the opposite of how we do it for ourselves, how we do it at home, how we do it at our firm. And how we do it, when we do business in our own interests. For this reason, instead of cutting wages, he had to come here to raise wages. Yeah. Secondly, or thirdly, those who have proposed this budget know well about the resolution brought by the House of Representatives in 2004 in which he said there could be no pay increases. What's going on now? Now the most dangerous of all games is happening. So there can be no pay hikes, but this year there may be a 10% pay cut. So if by the year and we achieve an increase, or we leave increased revenues, we still won't be able to increase revenues, i.e. We won't even be able to get back to the state since last year, because we have a resolution that, for God's sake, protects some kind of political interest from some imaginary public that's actually clouding stories. From all of this, then, it is clear one thing, that the Council of Ministers in this proposal kneeled or deliberately used the IMF umbrella to propose solutions directly affecting ineffectiveness, government failure and that will directly produce negative effects on the state. Whether it's premeditated or not, I'm not going to get into it, no matter what intention it is and no matter what possible justifications, I'd very much like to hear the reasons for it here. We need to know one thing, this Parliament is the highest institution of this state. We have commitments to international creditors. Those commitments may be implemented as proposed by this budget. Those obligations can't be at stake, and in case there hasn't been a pay cut, absolutely. Even if we had increased salaries compared to last year, we still would not have questioned the implementation of the budget's commitments to commitments, international obligations to BiH or other obligations. But it is interesting that the Council of Ministers has so indolently approached questions, that here, in no way, it offered us statistics and analysis of the relationship between the BH budget and other budgets in BiH in 2004-2005. In particular, that the Council of Ministers did not offer us in a joke if certain institutions were abolished at the level of the entity and made at BiH level, which means financially, what does that mean from the point of view of the budget mean. Why do we always slave to public, street interpretation of things? Why don't we go public and say, yes, it's been abolished here, it's added here, the total number is so much larger or so much smaller. So we need to show real relationships, not fixed relationships. They relate to total revenue, i.e. total expenditure from year to year, and in particular to the ratios between bh levels and other levels of budgetary users. That's not what you gentlemen from the Council of Ministers offered. 28 I don't even understand why you came here today. That's inconclusive. That's no way to talk to us. We know so much. If you can't show that you saved here, here, there, and you added here and there, then there's nothing to talk about. Do your job and come and talk to me. But if it weren't for that, I personally think, if it were actually going back to the beginning of my discussion, and it was past the time of bureaucratic accession of any issue of the state, especially in the matter of the budget. The time has come for us to be a manager. Of course, with salaries reduced by 10%, this country will lose everything that is most valuable and capable. Because if these people were ready to sit in these state chairs doing their jobs professionally, quality, investing their knowledge and their time in it, so far hoping to see it, and rewarding it, now with this penalty reduction of wages, by punishment for good work, we will come into a situation that is most dangerous of all, that we will lose the highest quality personnel and that the state chairs will be attractive and interesting only for those who forgive the expression, have no other entanglements. If the state falls on that kind of personnel, the state itself has condemned itself to failure. The countries did not fail for anything more than the way the people who ran the state affairs dealt with these jobs. There's no dilemma that someone who can be a lawyer, that someone who can be the head of some department as an IT engineer, engineering, as a top economist, etc. That he won't sit here for 1,000 or 1,200 marks a month working and being constantly in tension, calling that he did this, instead of maybe having a double salary in some company. In this way I'm actually asking who's leading the policy of the state and in what way? Yes, yes, saving yes, rationalization in consumption yes, rationalization in consumption is possible but not possible in this way. We have a situation where we save on wages, and we only increase on the expenditures of the communications agency. So we're only going to the communications agencies to increase the cost of 550,000 marks. That's amazing, that's absolutely amazing. It is absolutely unacceptable that the agency, that one agency has 70% of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Excuse me, I personally know very well both the functions and the importance of this institution but cannot accept that spending, that the costs for this institution alone need to be increased by 550,000 marks and the wages incurred by state institutions should be reduced. That's the logic we're accessing. Does that mean that whoever's closer to the main sitter, he's better off. who's closer to the point where it's being decided, he manages to push his interest and some general interest has no. Shall we have a rebellion tomorrow? Let me get this straight. It's important that we adopt the budget. If I'm consistent with what I'm saying, I'll vote against the budget. However, in that part, I agree further with Mr Limov, my colleague, in all my grades, but since I am from this second part of Parliament that supports the Council of Ministers, I will probably be in a position to think about how I will vote. I call on the Council of Ministers, you can answer me I'll be glad to hear, if we develop a discussion, it'll be especially nice, to teach me and to educate me about why the budget is like this and that's okay. But I invite you to do two things. Don't ever attend a budget this bureaucratic way again. And secondly, there's no speech whatsoever that you're breaking the Constitution, but especially that you're violating the basic principle of management, which is the motivation of those who work through compensation, because they work in quality and professional terms. That's inadmissible, that can't happen. 29 The last is, I more certainly than you, more than you believe in the ability of this state, not to take, but to earn money. So, to question the gray zone that Mr. Limov was talking about, to reduce the gray zone and to legalize that gray zone, and actually, instead of punishing those who are chasing the gray zone, who are supposed to reduce it, to cut their wages, to raise their salaries, to make that gray zone smaller, to make less room for illegal action and to have more resources for general needs. I would like to conclude that I would like to invite the College and the distinguished colleagues to see again before deciding whether it is our esteemed committee on the issue of an anti-constitutional proposal, whether it is a solution to this issue. I'm not sure that we can, in conclusion, resolve the issue of this budget that is counter-constitutional. Please make a decision as a College. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4008	I thank Mr. Čengić. Mustafa Pamuk answered the line.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4009	... Cengic's discussions, I'm interested in an explanation, I think he's a little in college, but now I understand. I don't understand it when he claims that this budget, this draft budget, has damaged Usav and will then vote for the budget. What does that mean? This means you will also vote for an unconstitutional matter or explain to me how you think that the committee or that the Council of Ministers will succeed with this budget and its philosophy of working on a budget that, by the way, I don't think it's a philosophy at all, it's a lame approach to the budget, that it can't violate the Constitution if we adopt a budget like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4010	Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4011	Very short. I still haven't said how I'm going to vote. I support the Council of Ministers, and I didn't say I would vote in this matter. I think this question is open at this hour. I think we agree in two facts. First, we can't make a decision that's going to be unconstitutional. And at the same time we agree that it is necessary to bring the budget. Between these two facts, we have time to find and find a solution. And I suggest we don't plead until we find a solution. And the Council of Ministers who proposed this had to be aware of the facts of the Constitution, and I believe it has its own proposal and its own solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4012	Mr. brkati.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4013	Dear Chairman, I am in a certain way called through these discussions as president, in fact the vice president of the committee that I led this session, so I was 30 in that opening statement trying to be very brief and to say what I said. However, there seems to be some other explanation, so I answered again. Indeed, this is all that Mr. Čengić said and what Mr. Limov said, and what he said to his dear colleague, Đoko, all that stands. Be careful, however, these discussions come to me a little late. Today, when we need to adopt the budget, they practically don't change anything. We know that, we knew before this session, but then we were supposed to discuss this at a session, that we had time to work with the amendments. However, this is a final act today. Mustafa, yes, we can refuse the budget, be careful. In the last session, you know, at least the members of the commission know that my amendment was to the member of the one concerning the violation of the Constitution. And all our commissions are really very responsible, but on this committee there are three members of the College, all three were there. When we discussed it, we came to that conclusion, I accepted it as an amendment promoter to try to regulate it in conclusion. Since there was also a minister, and she accepted, I am sorry that she is not here now, that she will try everything to make budget implementation of the budget no violation of the Constitution. It was her promise at the session that it would be for us, that she would do it that way. And we, as a commission, accepted it. However, I really can't right now without underlining one thing, what Mr. Čengić was saying about the proposal, I didn't want to elaborate at first, but I see it must be drawn really. It is amazing that he came to the Budget Proposal a linear reduction of 10%, when we all know perfectly well, and all the political parties in BiH say, we want to go to Europe. And we all want to meet all the conditions, everything. We have at least a consensus here, at least a public consensus we have in that we are all for it. And if we're all up to it, then we need to know that in the next year, even in the next one, it means in the next years, we have a lot of work to do, to meet these conditions to get closer to Europe. Who should take it out on their backs, except for the MPs and delegates in the House, they need these people sitting here who are our services and who are doing great work. I can say it very responsibly. We have special secretaries commissions in this House and House of Representatives. And in the last term, I was in the House of Representatives, so I know how people work there, and they work here. You can't ask people to work anymore when they can't physically and you're still cutting their personal income. It's an amazing thing, that the Council of Ministers could come up with such a proposal, indeed. And I, indeed, think of Mrs. Minister as the responsible person who promised us that she would not come to the budget of the Constitution, which is why we accepted this conclusion to pass it on to the House and that he went public as such. Because it practically has a Council of Ministers obligation not to violate the Constitution. Not in writing, but on the committee, that's very clear. And I don't know if that's enough. Mr. Lim's air-conditioned head, I believe it isn't, but beware, I wasn't prepared to postpone my amendment, that it was my fault not to adopt the budget. I know what that means for this country. To me now, that one amendment submitted by Brka, or our commission, not to adopt the budget. That is why we have accepted this compromise proposal and I think that it should be accepted under these conditions. But I really agree with Mr. Čengić's proposal that the next budget and all the next budgets, much more professionally they should do the Council of Ministers' services and much better done to us for analysis and then we have enough time to be able to do quality work and adopt the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4014	I thank Mr. Brk. No Niko's answering. I'd like to. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4015	Here you go, Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4016	I'll take it for a while. And here, I really won't be long. I'm just going to say my few thoughts about this budget, and they're particularly interesting these basic notes that talk about the most important actually, about the framework and the basic elements of this budget. It says, the basic setting of budget projections at all levels of government is to adapt to economic reality, which means bringing total public spending down to a level that allows for realistic income. There you go. This is a key sentence. About two months ago, when VAT was on the agenda, then we had a multimedia here, I would say a presentation on the video wall and in various, we had some contributions etc. one very high quality, at least so I think that the quality presentation of the situation in BiH, the opportunity of economic, social trends, etc. And some of the stuff from that exhibit, from that document, I'm gonna do it here again. When it is said that the total growth of... products in BiH is about 5% this year, so we said we have good shifts in exports where the increase is 20%, which is also encouraging. The level of imports, the trend in import growth is slightly lower, so the coverage of imports with exports, although still insufficient, is somewhat better, etc. And this, this data, they give us all the right to say a little bit, here goes something a little bit better, and then we give more effort, and we at all levels of government, in all the authorities, let's say here, it's gone a little bit, let's do something about us being a little better in the future. And we know what the situation is now. And we have passed some very important reform laws that are really in their essence reform laws, from the Directorate for indirect taxation, here is the VAT now, the Excise Act, the Tax on Transport of Products and Services, etc. which is paid for the first time in a single account, etc., and now that we're making, we're doing the most important programming policy document at year level, and that's the budget, then we're doing something that can't possibly be justified. The media is here, but I like to say what I mean, and I especially like to say it in public. So he'll tell me what it's like, and I don't even know some lawyer who's turning for his salary. It is not, it is not true, because I believe and certainly are representatives and ministers, too, and other BiH officials certainly live something better or significantly better than the average in this country. I can say they're not threatened by it. However, this reduction in wages applies to all officials in BiH's state institutions. So when we say in the same presentation two months ago, that the increase that we have, although, here's the question again, how can we measure it if it's not within the law, if it's a black market, and we say it's a black market, it's estimated to be participating somewhere over 30% in BiH's total turnover. It's a very, very high percentage. And what was the logical conclusion from that? Well, the opposite of what's proposed in the budget, quite the opposite. So, you need to motivate, do everything at least promise people who work on it, to reduce the possibility of those who work on black and break the law, to tax evasion, etc. They deal with crime, corruption, etc. Make them do what the law says. And who should drive them? Well, the one the state pays. And these are DGS, the Directorate for Direct Taxation, OSA, SIPA, the Court of BiH, the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, etc. We tell everyone to pay downstairs, pay downstairs, etc. Well, it's depressing to the extent that 32 I don't know what else can be done to those people, or at this point in time for the future. And here, it's easy to calculate whether it's 16 million marks. Look, we really are a poor country, but I really say, responsiblely, that 16 million marks are not a problem for this country. But it will be a problem for her tomorrow and for another time, if such a policy continues, a policy of demotivation instead of a policy of motivation. That's what Mr. Čengić was talking about, so I wouldn't say it again. Because I really think that these obstacles that are given here, even the arguments that do not stand, which are in itself contradictory, so don't go with each other, etc. and having in mind the overall situation and the current situation in BiH, I do think, however, that we should adopt this budget as it was given, with these amendments given with a re-warn, this conclusion that the Commission has proposed, which Mr Brka has repeated several times here, but I think we should very quickly start serious talks with the predsjedništvo because it formally proposes Budget, Council of Ministers, Parliamentarians and all other relevant political and other actors in this country, to see if our future is indistinguishable, demotivating in terms of wages, and also other goods that we expect to be good and not bad. And that's why I think today's budget needs to be adopted but really to be responsible and we start an initiative to open talks and make budget rebalances in a way that the budget doesn't be like this, that the budget has a lot of inadequacy. Some of them here have been very well systematized by our colleague Đoko Pajić. And really all those questions I find very difficult to find a rational answer because it's not there. It doesn't make sense to increase some items by 200% at the same time we're reducing the wages by 10%. And nothing happened in the organization of that institution, in their work, etc. Here, I'll finish this. To invite all of us, to adopt the budget anyway, but to really talk about the problem of the budget, its frameworks, basic elements very seriously, very openly and to see what are the basic objectives that the budget should adopt and those tasks that need to be met and the objectives that need to be achieved through the budget. Mr. Deputy Minister Kumalić told the truth at the beginning. But that truth is the problem that is the truth, so the truth of what we expect to be a budget is not guaranteed in terms of development, in terms of social, etc. And yet, on the other hand, we have sometimes for this speaker to tell some other truths, if they are true, I believe that they are about that in BiH not all black, that there are good and positive shifts and I am convinced that there are and I am convinced that this budget is just one clumsyness and I don't think it's done in one way that it should have been done. It was done at speed and it seems to me that Limov was talking about how maybe someone conditioned it, etc. I also think about the fact that someone is conditional or something much in another request, and I think that this is not a good way, and that the Council of Ministers should finally be more independent and more responsible in performing its functions, especially after reviving those, I have already mentioned reform laws that will lead to a whole new position of the Council of Ministers and BiH institutions for a little while. Mr. Neimarlija. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4017	So, very briefly. Col. Čengić attributed responsibility to the Constitutional and Legal Commission for one of the provisions of the Budget Law, and in this case, in the case of this law, the Constitutional and Legal Commission dealt only with the constitutional basis of the law and did not deal with its contents. Therefore, individual provisions so that the Constitutional and Legal Commission cannot be considered as responsible for the content and specific provisions of the Budget Law, and thus also for this, constitutionality or unconstitutional nature of those provisions.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4018	Gosdpodin Genjac. Replica Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4019	I thank my colleague Hilmo for teaching on this matter. I'm not sure that he convinced me that this commission of his was not obliged to take care of whether this budget in some of its solutions was unconstitutional. I still believe that if it wasn't for anyone before them, the commission had to react and point to that question. If she could solve it, that's another thing, but at the very least she should have pointed to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4020	Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4021	Dear colleagues, it is known that BiH's International Monetary Fund is creating a single framework, there are entities with its demands and limits, and in this framework which is what it is, a budget is being built. However, a significant amount of money is found in this framework, part of it goes to service external debt and there is no discussion. Once again, there remains a significant amount of money for the Council of Ministers to express its creativity and with one serious and thorough, open-minded approach to really edit this document in a way that would be most useful and practical and bestow the necessary results. I think it is already several times not in the middle of this creative approach, but from an opportunity to approach an earlier budget solution and how whoever took the position in the previous budget is holding it persistently and the solutions are being passed along with some mechanical and often literal changes, as is this reduction of the monetary wage mass of the BiH institutions' employees that happened with this budget. That this is a flat-rate approach, I based on the fact that at the 22nd session held on 26 April last year, we reached a very clear and categorical conclusion that the Council of Ministers by the end of May, or until the next session of the House, provided information on the number of employees employed in all budgetary users, as well as how many were employed through the State Agency. In the proposal for this budget, we have a presentation of employees at 31.08 last year, according to institutions and projections of the number of employees from 31.12 last year. Projection. Whether or not it is, it is not, how much of this number is on the contract of action, how busy it is on some other criteria than the Agency for Employment in State Institutions, it is not known at all. 34 I think that neither the budget nor the procedures such as the reduction in the wage rate of employees can be done simply to make it serious, responsible, without having this data. Based on the conclusions we've made here, we haven't gotten that data yet and I then suggested that conclusion, and then I said that there was information that in certain ministries there was literally one or two employees in accordance with the State Agency procedure. Of course, it should also be a reason to discuss procedure through the agency, the slow procedure, the way to solve it, the way to speed it up, but in any case we don't have elements, at least I don't see the elements of what could be done thoroughly and responsibly. That's one thing. The second thing, here's the end of the month, this month and you should be counting the wages. As far as BiH knows, whether or not billing salaries are reduced, whether or not billing salaries are the same, in which the institution is a reduction in which they are not, whether salaries have been reduced in institutions that have just been established, whether this will mean a reduction in salaries for institutions that need to achieve the most vital functions of the state and on which the original side of these revenues is based, whether these apply to customs officials, border guards, tax collectors from the Directorate for indirect taxation. Whether it is known from the occasion how long it is necessary for institutions to be employed, in order to achieve the elemental function and purpose of these institutions, etc. It is a number, a number of other issues, of a number of questions of this kind, however, I doubt there is an answer and it simply comes down to some effect of mass reduction, so called for wages. Behind that, you simply don't know anything further. And I'm afraid that a lot of things about this budget are about that principle of basic thesis and beyond that you don't know much more. In a number of other simple issues, let's say it is justified whether the Council of Ministers has ever considered possible waste in BiH institutions. The findings of the auditors say that the waste is present on numerous sides, about employee costs, about travel costs, about phone, about fuel, etc. All these items were increased in this budget by a significant index, a significant index in some institutions because an increased number of employees, new institutions are understood, in some completely unreasonable, incomprehensible, in fact, unagreed and specifically agreed and other special services will cost about 10 million this year in the budget, in addition to so many employees listed on page 29, etc. Obviously, either those who are needed or those who are employed are either not able to do so, so the contracted services have been increased by approximately 30% compared to last year. I'm going to have to look at some more practical and more concrete things, one question that has been repeated for years. Nime, our liaison officers' offices at the International Tribunal in The Hague, exist and are doing a very responsible job and they have chosen systematization that they can employ four, or that they should employ four employees. One of those officers hired four, the other two hired two. By means of a literal approach as well as all items, all those liaison officers are assigned the same item, the same amount of what has been allocated to liaison officers, the three are equally shared, regardless of what has been employed four, the others have two, and it is known how many employees in The Hague cost with apartments, expenses, rented apartments, etc. And, persistently, year after year, that one officer's lack of funds, other officers are surplus funds that they even return to the vault, this officer is asking for more funds because he can't cover it, and then from the vault they say we'll give the officers extra when the officers return the funds. And that's how it's repeated year after year. 35 I would like to stress the fact that as a positive fact, that an item has appeared on the financing of institutions of importance for BiH and that is a fact of enormous importance for which, of course, the entire BH public will have approval but I think this item must also follow the Law on the institutions of culture and scientific institutions of importance for BiH, because that would then be an adequate way to fully regulate the area. Not to go further into the details, to conclude with the next finding. The environment in which we are sick, the circumstances in which we are saddened to seem to lead to the need to adopt a budget, to set up a budget, to enable the functioning of the financing, especially institutions that have just been established, which would delay the budget really put in an unfavourable position, and they are of crucial importance to the future processes of the Physibility Judge. However, I think that we can, by adopting this budget, this budget work, and the seriousness of both the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers themselves, raise to a higher level adequate conclusions, I think that we could, along with this budget, adopt the conclusion that after 6 months of this fiscal year, we are asking the Council of Ministers to analyse the implementation of the budget for those 6 months, with a differentiated representation of each item, with each budgetary user, where it is spent, why it is spent, how much is spent. Especially provided with information that is truly employed in these institutions and in order to consider the report, for the first 6 months of this year, on budget flows and what happens to the budget, budget rebalances could at that time carry out budget corrections for the next half of the year that would meet all that this budget needs to meet. Therefore, I suggest that after six months, a detailed analysis is required. A detailed analysis of budget implementation in 6 months, after which a budget rebalance could be considered for the next half of the year, this current one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4022	Who's on the phone? No more reports. We'll close this debate. And before we conclude it, Mr. Đoko Pajić has asked for answers to certain questions, so I don't know if they're in the mood to answer here. And then we'll go to the conclusion of the debate. Mr. Šakota. Shakota, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4023	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome the other delegates in this House and I will answer purely from a technical point of view because mostly the questions asked by delegate Pajić are such. There were a lot of questions, and I'm going to try to come together and answer them together, so I'm going to tie them up. The basic note in these relative comparisons which are some good, which refers to the comparison of the previous and the current year, or the draft budget of the current year, is that we must also consider the absolute amounts at times. You know, let's say that we made some kind of oversight last year, so for some point, whether it's a travel cost or an official cost, we predicted 10,000 and then we made a mistake, and that's what we're correcting this year, so we're predicting 15 grand, that's a 50% increase, but it's essentially not about some significant increase in the total cost. So someone's general explanation when we're looking at some relative data, comparisons of the previous and next year. 36 Another thing some delegates have already mentioned, the employment of people, the dynamics of employment, causes and binds to themselves and the corresponding part of some additional costs. So, if we had a very small number of ministry employees, four ministries mention transportation, the Ministry of Civil Affairs that split into four ministries of the Ministry of Justice, those ministries had a small number of people. Indeed, for a time there was a case, which Mr. Genjac was right, that they had only one employee of the state for a time. In the meantime, however, they have implemented one part of their employment plan. So they hired the number of people and the normal thing that next year, when they hired all these people according to plan and corresponding costs, the following costs would be higher. And that's one of the reasons we have the increase. In particular, in this case, this works at the Constitutional Court, which we have already clarified, we have the takeover of people who were employed in the House of Human Rights, who are now involved in the staff of the Constitutional Court with the precise planned employment dynamics in the course of late 2004 and early 2005. There has been an enormous increase in wages and other costs, and it is precisely related to the takeover of people who have worked, who have been, who made up the composition of the House of Human Rights, or the Commission for Human Rights, which is now called and which is now included in the composition of the Constitutional Court. I think we've solved this issue, it's a matter of human employment mathematics, the amount of wages and other costs, the increase that follows from this. Furthermore, as far as the Court of BiH is concerned, it is true that we have an enormous increase on these other contracted services, and these agreed services include legal services which are something that we cannot influence. You're probably witnesses and you've been following up on what's going on, we've got a huge budget pressure, not only on our Court of BiH, but also on other courts, because the bar fees are extremely high and we have lawyers on official duty, they're putting bills on these tariffs, we had one amount last year that was obviously insufficient because those tariffs went up. We've taken some action to try to act on the legal chambers and other relevant factors that decide the dependent tariffs, to adapt it to the eco-real frameworks. But we can't influence them right now. That's why in 2005 we had to transfer an increase in these services. A significant increase indeed but which we cannot influence. Again the matter of mathematics, we have more people, we have more lawyers, we have more invoices for those services. The Office for Veterinary Use and the Agency for Animal Marking, these are two budgetary users which are closely connected. We have brand-new things at the Veterinary Office, we have brand-new responsibilities that were taken over by the end of 2004 by entities where we have the employment of 23 new veterinary inspectors at the border, we have new jobs, we have new costs. Also something that's a matter of more mathematics. The BiH Competition Council, an institution established at the end of 2004, made it possible to establish a modest budget in 2004. In their 2005 request, they sought a circus of about 900,000, but when we did an analysis of their employment and what their tasks were in 2005, we also came up with a number that was an increase compared to 2004 but will meet some minimum needs in 2005. Election commission, we have an election commission really downgrade this year. If you look at the current expenditures, you'll see that the current expenditures are reduced by some of this 100,000. So, some of the activities that work simply have been increased by 37 local elections, too, are not directly reflected, because these costs of local elections have been observed under a special sentence in 2004 that speaks of organisation and the costs of local elections. It's not in this year, and that's why some, a small fraction of the current expenditures have been reduced. But the Election Commission is an institution that has jobs that are as regular as other budget users, they have regular employees, they do their jobs and this one, and there's no one, there's actually no increase for this year in their current expenditures. And on this explanation for reservations, it's really important, it's not a mere assessment but it's based on the facts that we know at this point, which we have. The estimated amount is 4 million and 600 in the budget. At this point, we have already booked the commitments for BiH's detention costs from last year which have not been settled, for which we are partially already being sued. The Federation has already sued us partly for these costs. We have to reserve these funds, we have to settle it. This is about 1.5 million already received accounts based on an agreement which did not go through the full recording procedure in the 2004 budget and we have a problem that we know at this point, so we have to make the means that this problem is not further escalating but that we are resuscitating it in early 2005, and in 2005, we anticipated such costs under the Court of Justice of BiH. And this, second thing, very important, we have a lawsuit that stands at this point in the stage of resolving the appeal that the Council of Ministers has filed to the Constitutional Court. It relates to the cost of Cetis Celje's lawsuit, and it is based on this data that we now have a 3 million KM circus. It refers to a commercial contract relating to the printing of money for this one, BiH and the verdict came, was carried out. At this point, she is at the stage of waiting for an appeal in the Constitutional Court. We don't know what the solution will be. If it's at our expense, we have to predict the means and see who will eventually bear the costs. But simply if we hadn't predicted these funds, we'd have put about 2% of them at risk, for example. salaries or other costs for all budget users. That's what it is, which are notes and attempts to answer. I don't know if Mr. Pajić is satisfied, and only to answer Mr. Čengić for the part that applies in technical terms to finance the production of project documentation for Corridor VC. In the budget annex, Annex II is envisaged, which is otherwise called this, the Asset Treatment Annex, the Way of Recording, and this, tracking the project's realisation, making project documentation, a special annex is foreseen exactly as planned on 20th, I don't know now, 20 million KM, fully covered, regulated method of recording, monitoring reporting. So we were still making sure to put it in the budget, but it wasn't for a variety of reasons that it could have entered item 336.7 million because we had a framework that simply didn't allow it. And the second question of the treatment of these funds is very specific. It is about funds that are entitite, not entityal, but this one, that GMSM operators pay by special decision and the treatment of these funds is not the treatment of classical budget spending but rather of some investment-specific. There is one special treatment and from the point of view of these categorizations that the International Monetary Fund uses by estimating its own certain indicators of total consumption. So, we've singled out that part, we've singled out if you've noticed another annex relating to the problem of paying this one, the cost of solving surpluses of people at the Department of indirect taxation and in the Intelligence Service, also as an annex, the means for these purposes of the 3.6 million, will be provided hopefully, from the Law on the Means of Succession. That's what we predicted, that's the deal, when this budget was adopted and I think that's how I answered this technical question. 38 And otherwise for the whole pay issue, we have also committed ourselves and the conclusion of the House of Representatives is that the salary law has to be done and that is the only time to solve this problem systematically, means that there is one law on salaries for all BiH institutions that would regulate all these things. This budget does not restrict us from trying to satisfy some of the principles that you have properly bid, to try within the total mass through this, to achieve a certain redistribution of that law to resolve to stimulate those people who wear the reform processes that work and who really deserve to be paid for that work they do. And another note related to these questions Mr. Genjac has asked, which concerns the financing of the Office of Liaison Officers with The Hag. That's one more technical question for us. It really raises the question of how to create a problem where it shouldn't be. If our budget contains a total item of 1 million 563 thousand and that is enough for the overall functioning of three liaison officers with The Hag, only the Presidency by nature of things should arrange a distribution that is logical so that they can function. And it's illogical that we're now looking for additional funds from a reserve or an additional one, security funds because they can't agree that this one, they're making a redistribution that's logical. That's an explanation, a few explanations. I hope, and a very important one, note and also refers to Mr Genjac, at this point in a month, we have a fully operational system of centralised salary accounting which represents one base of all school staff, in all things that are important to carry out the salary calculation but not only to carry out the salary calculation but also to report to Parliament that the Council of Ministers and anyone who deals with this problem and at the same time that base allows various simulations and represents one of the elements, one of the reasons that this salary law can also be done in a quality way, so that these simulations can be done properly. That's it. If there's anything else, I'm willing to respond in a technical sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4024	I thank Mr. Šakota. I don't see any more reports. And Mr. Đoko Pajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4025	Well, here, I'd like a few sentences. First of all, Mr. Osman Brka said in his last discussion that these discussions had arrived too late. I don't know when we could have discussed this before, 'cause we've had our first budget on the agenda for 2005. So we haven't had a chance to discuss it before. The second thing, I can partially be satisfied with the answers I got, in part, I'm not. And I'm going back to my first discussion where I realized that he was a broken member of 101. The Rules of Procedure of this House. If we had this at the time, as foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, and not by chance, I mean in Article 101, that by October 15th, we have this on the agenda, so that from October 15th to this day, we would have cleared all these dilemmas, and we would have adopted the budget properly by 31.12. And we are the most responsible, we adopt it, we finally bring the last word. 39 About the answer, yes, I was also looking at relative amounts. I wasn't just looking at percentages when I was giving parallel indicators in 2005 and 2004. There are, exactly, those institutions or budget beneficiaries that were a little planned in 2004, and they needed really more, perhaps in this year, a percentage and relative amount increase, but I assure you that there are those who, in the last year, are in a particular position in current expenditures that were too high and are again increasing by 100% or 80 or 60, and in my deep view, they needed to be reduced. In my deep view, anything that goes beyond 120 percent is not acceptable, it's not acceptable for me. And I would only now after these explanations and after all these discussions, only now could I give concrete amendments. And I said at the beginning, I was thinking of investing our Adiminstrational Financial Commission, but I knew it wouldn't go away. And I was in a dilemma that I put into, that I didn't. And now I'd know what amendments I should be putting in, which I'm convinced should pass. But here we are in this situation that today we have to adopt the Buddha in both the first and second readings. And now, I'm still, someone said in the dilemma is whether to vote. I still don't know if I'm going to vote or not. There may still be time until the vote for a few minutes to change my mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4026	I thank Mr. Pajić. Mr. brkati, but I would suggest we bring him in anyway.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4027	I'll do it very briefly. Mr. Đoko Pajić didn't understand me. No, you're not. Here's the point. We probably shouldn't have had a agenda like this today if we had each other's reading and we don't have time now with the amendment. The only possibility was, Mr. Đoko, that you passed it on to the board, while the commission was still working. But in order to avoid it in the future, then it would really take us to get a budget proposal in time, to honor that article in 101, I think I did say the Rules of Procedure, yes, and then we could do it normally. But this is like this, this is supposed to go public, all of our remarks, but unfortunately it's too late for the amendment. That's the point. And finally, if I hadn't answered again, because we're going to make a quick statement by voting, I would have asked, I would really ask all the delegates in this House to accept these two conclusions, perhaps complemented but to accept these two conclusions that have been unanimously accepted on the commission, both of them and the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4028	Mr. Pajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4029	Okay, I know that this one, what I've been making comments, that it can be done over the years by rebalancing, that it can be fixed anyway. And finally, I forgot, I thought in the previous discussion I'd suggest another conclusion. Mr. Genjac has already suggested something in this direction, that it must go after six months, that we get information on the implementation of the budget for the first six months of 2005. Let's say it was September, October's report, with a report if there are major deviations, 40 to go with the budget rebalance with the 2006 execution report and only after the 2006 projection was made for 2006.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4030	I thank Mr. Pajić. There's more of us in the debate. The debate is over, we should now declare the law in the first reading. I call upon you to plead, to vote on the law in the first reading. You can vote now. Here's to announce the official results of the vote. So we have 7 votes for, 1 abstention, 1 v, 2 v, sorry, 1 abstention. And we adopted the BiH institutions' draft budget and international commitments for 2005 in the first reading. I suggest we do another reading. A discussion in a second reading. Who is in favour, to go or put us to the vote, would suggest that we do another reading. You can vote now. I call on us to repeat this statement because from the RS one MP has not declared himself, and that is not the quorum. So we have to repeat the vote. Vote now. Here's the score. In seven against one, abstention two. So we decided to have a discussion in the second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the Budget. There were no new amendments. I suggest that we put this conclusion into practice now, to repeat it, and here's the ambition to maybe complement it. I have made certain suggestions, Mr. Čengić also, regarding the conclusion, I don't know if anyone else, so here I am calling for Mr. Čengić or Mr. brkati if he is in the mood, to concentrate on that conclusion, to be complemented by this part of the rebalancing process. I welcome Mr. Vice President of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Čolak, welcome. Here you go, Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4031	So I, too, welcome Mr. Minister and use the opportunity to actually suggest something that, to suggest the text of something that I understood as Mr. Jukić's proposal, which I think is founded. It is equally important to see a proposal from the House of Representatives on this issue. I have to say that I haven't seen the conclusion, I don't know the text, but the idea of making a bill on wages is also good, and I think it would be kind of good to do it again. But at 41, I cannot present this proposal in any form at this time, because I do not have that conclusion. Maybe it's my fault, but I really don't have it. I don't see anything controversial about it. At the same time, it seems to me that what Mr. Jukić suggested, and I suggest it in a certain text, purely in shape, is that it is actually not contrary to the idea of making a bill on wages. So the proposal would go like this, this first point of conclusion, I would ask colleagues who have these conclusions of our commission. So this first conclusion, which says, when implementing or implementing the budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2005, needs to be strictly taken into account about the respect of the BiH Constitution. The proposal is now to propose, not as a new conclusion, but as an extension, the BiH Council of Ministers is obliged to propose within 30 days of today a budget rebalancing in particular, so not only in relation to the salaries of civil servants and persons who act in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, given the discussion of the House of Peoples, concerning the review of the BiH Institution's proposal for 2005. So the proposal is essentially to prepare this rebalancing within a month, counting on two things. Less repairs within the existing one, you don't mean breaking some new digits now, but what's said, maybe inside that we can fix. And, secondly, that this question pays, which, in my opinion, can't wait for any six-month report, so then we'll see what we've done, but, therefore, to do so. With only this conclusion in mind, we can avoid conflict with the House of Representatives and the resolution that exists there. The minute we voted this budget, we voted on what it says in the budget that the 10% reduction, and maybe it's not the same everywhere. We voted for it. From that moment on, we come against the resolution that the House of Representatives long ago adopted in 2004, where it says, no more increases. The fact that we're not, we're now in a situation where inside the Parlamometer Assembly, we're in confusion and we're in a confusing situation. In my assessment, if we adopted the number I as a complement today, then we avoid that question, or we say this, that we have seen this problem, so in fact, we would now not consider this a reduction, and after the increase, but simply by balancing, by asking for a solution to remain the same. So there would be no further reductions or increases, which could be problematic for the House of Representatives. It seems to me that with one such solution we could avoid all these problems, and I really believe, as most colleagues here have said, that 16 million in total cannot be a problem for the 530 million budget and for the revenues that are expected and that are to be realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4032	I thank Mr. Čengić. Here you go, Mr. Pamuk.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4033	I, of course, did not vote for this budget and I think that, as the man who took the oath in this House, he will not work against the constitution. I get the right to do it, and I have to tell you colleagues that I'm proud of how I acted. And you think, you're in a very difficult situation. It is clear that any decision you make will not be respected by the Council of Ministers, as it has not respected so far a series of decisions you have made, or conclusions. I have to say that I voted like this, so to get the right, I will, I am not announcing it, but I will clearly address the Constitutional Court in private, not to stop 42 of what you are doing, but to simply say that my colleagues in Parliament are doing what they are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4034	I thank Mr. Pamuk. Here, before the debate is concluded in the second reading, I'm just going to warn us all all about another fact. We're under point, I think it was either the 9th or the 8th Act on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Central Bank Act, where those two percentages were replaced by 40 – 60 – 60 – 40, which means, in the money, instead of 12 million marks on the BiH Institute's income side, the Budget, so plus 6 that's 18 million marks, plus 6 million marks more, and then, when it's realised, it's not 581, but 851 plus 6. So 587 and what goes behind, etc. So this is also one of the arguments that we need to do budget rebalances and I expect it very quickly, for about a month – two days exactly what we were saying earlier, and what Mr Čengić suggested in the conclusions. So there's a need to do rebalancing for a number of reasons. So we have valid reasons, arguments, and it's just a need to do that. Here, this is not to understand the amendment either, but, nevertheless, one fact that should have been said here at the moment. If there are no more charges for discussion, Mr. Pajić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4035	...can be your suggestion, because you're not in the full range of commissions. I mean in principle. It can be a proposal, but it can't be a commission proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4036	Here, replica Mr. Čengić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4037	I thank my colleague Pajić, but, by my understanding, the procedure in this House at the time when something comes to this house with the commission, then the House has it. Well, in that sense, we have the right, we have the opportunity to supplement the Commission's proposal, which is more technical, is the Commission's proposal, but it's formally the House and the House's motion to decide on it now. So there's nothing controversial about the procedure that can be complemented, and it would be inappropriate for me to, in addition to the first conclusion, I'm now saying that it's my conclusion, given that the more important part of the conclusion is the one that has already taken the commission, and this is just a sequel to that same line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4038	Thank you. No more reports. We'll be right behind the law. Here, we will join the vote, so we are voting on the 2005 budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 43 You can approach the vote. The results of the vote as you see 7 for, 2 against and 1 abstention, so with 7 votes for, 2 against and 1 abstention, we adopted the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2005. As the Law was adopted in the same text as in the House of Representatives, we adopted the final draft law on the implementation of the Budget of Institutions, the Budget of BiH Institutions and the international obligations of BiH for 2005. Now we'll get to the bottom of this. So this is about the conclusion offered by the Commission, which was complemented here at the House during the session of Mr Čengić. I don't think there's any need to read it anymore. I'd like to call for a statement on the text of the conclusion. You can vote. The conclusion was adopted with 8 votes in favour, with 2 votes abstentioned. So we're done with the tenth point and we're moving on to the 11th point of the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4039	This is the second conclusion relating to the financing of liaison officers in The Hague. We didn't vote that. He needs to be voted on, and he says so. That's what we voted unanimously on the commission. During the implementation of the Budget, BiH institutions and international obligations for 2005, provide and provide financial resources, i.e. conditions for smooth work and normal work by the Office of the Hague Liaison Officers.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4040	But that was the Commission's conclusion, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4041	I'm sorry, I'm not, if I'm wrong. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4042	A conclusion has been adopted. We're going to the 11th point of the agenda. Ad.11. The draft law on the implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget and international commitments for 2005 has given you the law as well as the Commission's report. This is the first reading of the law of Article 90. First there is a debate on the necessity and principles on which the law is founded. The House of Representatives passed this law in both readings with four amendments. The Committee for Financial and Administrative Affairs of the House of Peoples adopted four amendments, which are the same as in the House of Representatives and which have become an integral part of the text of the law. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mr. brkati, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4043	I'm thanking you. The Commission for Financial and Administrative Affairs of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina held at its 24th session, held on 18.1.2005. 44 considered in accordance with Article 79(2). Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bares of BiH for 2005, proposed by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency. Four amendments were submitted by delegate Branko Zrno, who were unanimously accepted. The Commission unanimously accepted the amendments that have become an integral part of the text of the bill and, as such, delivers them to the House of Peoples for further procedure which reads, see, you had them and that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4044	I thank Mr. Brk on behalf of the Commission you've heard. Is anyone answering for a hearing? Nobody's answering. However, we lack to decide the quorum. I'm giving a break for five minutes, but really five minutes, let's be exact. We're starting work. [[PAUZA]] We are on the 11th item of the agenda, this is the draft law on the implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget and international obligations for 2005, first reading. Does anyone have a call for a hearing? There's no one here. We're going to a plea. You can vote. 7 for, against no one, 2 abstentions. We adopted the draft law on the implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget and international obligations for 2005 in the first reading. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. I'm making this proposal for a plea. You can vote. With eight votes to, two abstentions, we adopted a decision to conduct a second reading debate. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. We're discussing amendments and voting on the law. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. We declare the Law in a second reading. You can vote. With 8 gals for, 2 abstentions, without votes against, we passed the Budget Law in Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and international obligations for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2005 in the second reading, in the same text as the House of Representatives and, therefore, the law was finally passed. We're moving to agenda 12. Ad.12. A proposal for uniform rules for the establishment of legal rules in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina 45 You have received a proposal for uniform rules for the making of legal rules in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as a report by the competent commission. The Chamber adopted a single bill proposal with 16 amendments. The Commission adopted 16 identical amendments, as well as at the House of Representatives. There were no new amendments. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Neimarlija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4045	The delegates received, of course, a report from our commission. I would not add anything to what counterpart Jukić has already said, but, on my part, I would not specifically elaborate on behalf of the commission the procedure for the adoption of this extremely significant document. I would say, however, only that it is a document that is worthy of, to say the least, attention simply because it confirms that we are also in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, until then, thank Bog, and we can finally deal with the issue of form or form of law, and not only with their contents and that it is, therefore, something that is, indeed, encouraging. While Tomislav Limov and Boško Šiljegović and Constitutional and Legal Committee Secretary Aljoša Čampara participated in the preparation of these rules, I would say that of the following acts, with a report from the Commission, I ask the delegates to take into account, since today is not the chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, Ilija Filipović, who had the largest number of amendments in the final phase of the preparation of these rules, and these amendments have been incorporated into this text of the rules. They were also installed by procedure in the House of Representatives. However, since he is not here, I am obliged to ask you to look at his reaction to his amendments, and this consideration of the lecturer in our congregation itself, because the creation of this document had, among other things, and this one accompanying result, which in itself, I hold, is not discouraging. In my court, the lecturers in the amendments of counterpart Filipović, perhaps wrongly, concluded that these amendments were addressed both by fellow Filipović and by language issues and responded. kolega Filipović again understood their reaction as inappropriate intervention of lecturers in legislative practice and position and the role of delegates. However, in order for me not to judge, therefore, since my fellow Filipović is gone, I would ask you to keep in mind these texts of these reactions and to say for my part that I appreciate that there is no, of course, any reason for us not to join the House of Representatives and not to accept these rules, which will in time certainly be upgraded, improved, improved, but undoubtedly by today's adoption of them will be a significant step towards technical and formal, and thus a substantial improvement of future laws and legal acts that we will bring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-01-26-0.u4046	I thank Mr. Neimarlija, a member of this committee. Who else is answering for a hearing? There are no reports. I hereby conclude the procedure and call for a statement on the proposal for uniform rules for the making of legal rules in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You can vote. The results of the vote. 9 votes for, therefore, unanimously without the abstentions and against. I agree that we have adopted the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in 46 institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the same text as the House of Representatives, and thus these rules have been adopted in the final version. Moving to the next item on the agenda, that's number 13. Ad.13. Report on the work of the Commission on Foreign and Trade Policy of the People's House Report you received. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? There's no record of a hearing. I am voting on the Commission's report. You can vote. I agree that, unanimously with nine votes for, without abstentions and against, we adopted the report on the work of the Foreign and Trade Policy Commission of the House of Naros. Ad.14. Giving consent to ratifying the contract between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Croatia on avoidance of double taxation in relation to income tax and property report of the competent commission you received. The House of Representatives has given a hint of ratification of this contract. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate and calling for a plea. He can vote. I agree that, unanimously with nine votes for, without abstentions and against, we have agreed to ratify the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Croatia on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property tax. Ad.15. Giving consent to the ratification of the contract between the BiH Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income tax and property report of the committee in charge. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this contract. I'm opening the debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I call for a plea. You can vote. I agree that, unanimously with... votes for, without abstentions and against, we agreed and ratified the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes. Ad.16. Giving consent to ratifying the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on co-operation in the fight against terrorism, drug trafficking and organised crime You have received a report from the competent commission. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this agreement. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I hereby conclude the debate and call for a statement of consent. 47 You can vote. I find that, unanimously with nine votes, with no abstentions and no consent has been given to ratifying the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on co-operation on the fight against terrorism, drug trafficking and organised crime. Ad.17. Giving consent to ratifying the transfer and take-over of persons at the state border between the Government of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Hungary You have received a report from the competent commission. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this agreement. I'm opening up raps. Are there any reports? There isn't. I hereby conclude the debate and call for a statement of consent to ratify this agreement. You can vote. I agree that, unanimously with nine votes for, without abstentions and against, we have agreed to ratify the transfer agreement and the acceptance of persons at the state border between the Government of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Hungary. Ad.18. Giving consent to ratifying the Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons Report of the Competent Commission you have received. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this convention. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the raps and calling for a plea. You can vote. I agree that, unanimously with 10 votes, without abstentions and against, we have agreed to ratify the Convention on Transfer of Convicted Persons. Ad.19. Giving consent to ratifying the contract between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the joint financing of the maintenance and drive of the Komarna Neum-Mljetski channel regional drain system. You've received a report from the board of directors. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this contract. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I call for a plea. You can vote. I agree that a unanimous agreement has been given to ratify the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the joint financing of the maintenance and drive of the Komarna Neum regional drain system – the Milk Channel with 10 votes in favour, without abstention and votes against. Ad.20. Giving consent to ratifying the agreement between the Government of BiH and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial co-operation in 2003 Report from the competent commission you received. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this agreement. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the raps. I call for a plea. 48 You can vote. I agree that, unanimously with 10 votes for, without votes against and abstention, we agreed to ratify the agreement between the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial co-operation in 2003. Ad.21. Giving consent to the ratification of the agreement on the development loan, providing urban infrastructure and providing services between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association You have received a report from the committee responsible. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this agreement. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I call for a plea of consent. You can vote. I agree that, unanimously with 10 votes for, without abstentions and against, we have agreed to ratify the Agreement on the Development Loan to provide urban infrastructure and provide services between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Association for Development. We've reached the final point of the agenda. Ad.22. Proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 51(1) (a) of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Official Messenger of BiH, No 32/02 The authentic interpretation was adopted by the House of Representatives and delivered to the House of Peoples for adoption. In order for authentic interpretation to be full, both homes must adopt it. Since authentic interpretation is not regulated by the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, it was not necessary to be discussed by the competent commission, but discussed at the House. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I call for a statement on authentic interpretation. You can vote. I agree that, unanimously with 10 votes for, without abstentions and against, we adopted an authentic interpretation of Article 51(1) (a) of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Official Messenger of BiH, number 32/02. I thank my colleagues and others. And this concludes the 37th session of the House of Peoples. Thank you, everyone, and have a good afternoon and a good day. The session is closed at 17.05 p.m.
