ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17796	I am opening the 56th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, I regret to inform you that Mr Ivo Živković, a delegate, has passed away in the previous assembly of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I invite you to stand up and pay our respects to Mr. Ivo Živković for a moment of silence. May it be glory to our late colleague. Dear colleagues and colleagues, besides the MPs at the session invited our regular guests and representatives of international and non-governmental organisations following the work of the House, I welcome all together, I want them to feel comfortable during the 56th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. According to the service report, I find that there are 36 MPs present. The absence from the session was justified by Mr. Selim Bešlagić. Due to the official route, Ms Seada Palavrić, Adem Huskić and Marija Perkanović are absent. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija announced a delay and I have no information for Mr. Nakaš, he's probably busy with a program he has as a doctor at work. We expect Mr Nakaš Abdulah to join us during the session. So, the session has a quorum for full-time work and decision-making. You are distinguished colleagues and colleagues in the call for a session, received a draft agenda. Compared to this proposal, I would like to inform you that the College and then also the Enlargement College have downloaded the Financial Business Report "the Official Journal of BiH" for the reason that it has not yet been discussed on the competent commission, that is, item 9 of the agenda, and you can delete that point from today's session of the agenda. So that's not a draft agenda. There are no new additions to what you are or change from what you received in the call for today's session. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Can I help you? Who wants to talk? Mr. Vinko Zorić. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17797	On behalf of the HDZ Club, I propose that the agenda should include the item of the agenda, the constitutionality of the decisions of the High Representative for BiH. This is what I'm looking for, because that's the conclusion of the HDZ presidency. So we've been looking for this on several occasions through the College, the Extended College, this home, but to be at a plenary session. Now it's the conclusion of the party that I belong to, to discuss this house on the recommendation here, as it says in the memo, before the third point and I suggest it as the president of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17798	Thank you. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? If no one answers the word, I, Mr. Beriz Belkić, ask for a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17799	I don't have a suggestion, but a brief comment. So Mr. Zorić formulated to discuss constitutionality. So, the wording itself says that it would sooner be a matter of the Constitutional Court than this Parliament and we will not be able to support this.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17800	I thank Mr. Beriz Belkić. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if no one is answering for a word anymore, I would just like to remind myself that we have already spoken at the meetings of the Expansive College and the College at last session of the House, but I am obliged to put myself to the vote. I call on you to make a statement on Mr Vink Zorić's proposal, president of the HDZ Club, at the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So a total of 12 for, 13 against, 6 abstentions. The proposal didn't get the necessary majority. And, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I declare that, please, who is not registered? Give me the screen again, please open the screen for me. What's your number, Mr. Lagumdžija? Do you demand a re-election outside the club? I don't know why you're not registered, it's possible you didn't vote and you may not be registered. Please, are you asking for a re-election? Are you asking to renew the vote? Would you like Mr. Lagumdžija, I ask you, please, on behalf of the club to repeat the vote? Mr. Lagumdžija, you can be unregistered because you haven't voted at all, please, at the request of the SDP Club, because people claim they voted and are not registered, I order that this vote be repeated. 3 Please prepare for the vote. Vote now. - 12 for, 16 against, 8 abstentions. I find the proposal has not received the necessary parliamentary majority. And, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I declare the agenda to be the 56th session of the House of Representatives as follows, 1. Journal of the 55th Session of the House of Representatives, 2. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. Fulfillment of the vacant seat of the BiH presidency member from the Croatian people, 4. The request of MEP Mirsad Ćeman to consider the draft law on the foundations of BiH geomatics by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 5. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 6. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Adem Huskić, on the review of the report on the visits made to BiH institutions in the field of defence and security, 7. Proposal for a Law on the Rights and responsibilities of Members of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH with the Report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Rights of Members of National Minorities with the Report of the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum, proposed by MPs Martin Raguž, Mirsad Ćeman and Selim Bešlagić, 9. Proposal for a resolution on anti-fascism, MPs Zlatko Lagumdžija, Jozo Križanović, Selim Bešlagić, 10. Proposal for an interpretation at the request of the Commission to consider the status of persons naturalised after the entry into force of the BiH Constitution until the entry into force of the Law on Citizenship of BiH, 11. Giving consent to ratification under (a) the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on Co-operation on the fight against terrorism, (b) the transfer and acceptance of persons at the state border between the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Hungary, (c) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic official passports, (e) the Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Slovenia on mutual assistance in customs matters, (e) the Agreement on the promotion and protection of investments between BiH and the Kingdom of Danse, (f) the Sixth Amendment to the Treaty on Financial Assistance between BiH and the United States for the Municipal Infrastructure and Services. This is the agenda for today's session. 4 Moving to the first item of the agenda, that is Ad.1. The record from the 55th session of the Honored colleague and colleague, due to the holiday, was only received this morning. I hope you've been able to read it, and if you haven't read it, then I don't mind adopting it at another session. I'm opening a debate anyway. Any objections to the record? Mrs Ljiljana Milićević is asking for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17801	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I was able to read the record waiting for the beginning. There is one technical error here, where we say in the second sentence, 40 MPs attended, after which we make four people rightly absent. So it could've only been 38, so please make it right. And as for the rest, it's correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17802	Thank you very much. Okay. Who else wants to talk about the record? Dear colleagues and colleagues, I conclude the discussion of the record. I propose that we adopt the minutes in the text you received with a justifiable remark, Mrs Ljilja Milićević, with a request from our service that the error in the record be corrected and recorded for the next session, the exact number of those present at the last session. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 28 for, against no one, restrained is no one, a sufficient entity majority. I understand we've adopted a record from the 55th session of the House of Representatives. Moving to the second item of the agenda, Ad.2. MPs' questions and answers Dear colleagues and colleagues, for this session the answers were received by MPs Ljiljana Milićević, on the question asked at the 46th session, Muhamed Moranjkić was asked at the 50th session, Ivo Lozančić asked on the 52nd session and Milorad Živković on the issue from the 53rd session. Any comments from those who got the answers, then we'll go to questions. Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić needs a comment, please. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17803	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, my question was in two parts. The first part that was practically more important, the second part wasn't answered at all, and I contributed to the documentation that no one from the answer was seen or peeked in. On the contrary, he prescribed me certain members of the Constitution, unfortunately thinking that I could not read the Constitution. So I don't think this is an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17804	Okay. Mrs. Ljilja Milićević asked for a comment. Here you go, Mr. Lozančić. Let's get ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17805	My question was asked to the Council of Ministers. It referred to the information we received from the attorneys, i.e. to inform our assembly about the rotation procedure in which the rotation between the lawyers and the deputies was carried out. What was the issue? We received a letter from the defence attorney, Mrs. Dragica Miletić, who was replaced on July 27th, respectively, a rotation was carried out. We asked for an explanation for that. This response, which was delivered without a signature, only writes the Council of Ministers at a session adopted it itself, comes in its own wake, where it is said to have been a rotation since 10 September. So, Mrs Miletić took over the length of July 27th, the solution of the current defence attorney runs from September 10th and runs until January 10th, 2006. A vacuum was created, i.e. Mrs Miletić stopped doing her duty, in strange circumstances, at the end of July, and her solution was not until September 10th. I believe that it is not properly done here and from an institution such as BiH's Attorney General I expected, regardless of what three ladies are, far more correct relations between each other and not disputed situations, because the woman who is here by chance comes from the order of the Serb people, in this way has been denied for one part of the term of office for a month and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17806	Thank you. Mr. Ivo Lozančić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17807	Mr. Chairman, I've found answers to theirs, but I haven't found an answer to my question, so I, uh, remains a possibility when I get an answer, or I find it, to comment, if I'm not satisfied, at the next session. I don't have it here.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17808	Thank you very much. If there are no more comments on the questions to which you have received answers, you have not received an answer, Mr. Potočnik, you may ask a new question. 6 There is a word Mr. Nikola Špirić. Let's go with the new parliamentary questions. Have Mr. Potočnik prepare, please. All right, well, please here's the secretary's writing, raise your hands and let the secretary write you down, who wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17809	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, members of the Council of Ministers, I have one question. In fact, for many years in BiH, both entities have been present, both in the RS and the Federation of BiH, discrimination against children's rights with mental retardation and their families. Of course, these rights are regulated in the Declaration on the Rights of Mentally Depreciated Persons, Resolution of the UN General Assembly, I also call on the Report, Review, the selected BiH Education Report 2004/2005. which is made up of OSC, which warns against discrimination against children with mental retardation in both entities. Unfortunately, there are laws in the RS that are broken or not applied and in the Federation are at the cantonal level and at the Federation level, these rights are not defined at all. That's why my question to the Council of Ministers is, what they intend to do so that this population is simply legally protected, that is to say, not to be very discriminatory. I would like to warn you that this is a major problem, that it is not about such a small number of children with mental retardation in both the RS and the Federation of BiH, and if indeed those levels of authorities that are obliged to worry about it do nothing, then the Council of Ministers is obliged to respond to BiH's international obligations to regulate the matter legally. So my question is to the Council of Ministers, what are they going to do to care or to reduce this discrimination to a bearable measure, or which legislative projects of the Council of Ministers in this Parliament is it intending to propose that this area be regulated legally at the level of the BiH state? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17810	I thank Mr. Nikola Špirić. May your question be asked by Mr. Mladen Potočnik, and may Mr. Ćeman Mirsad be prepared, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17811	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, this is not a new issue, but rather a protest against ignoring the issue I raised at last session of Parliament, where I asked for a report to the BiH Parliament until this session of the High Commander of the BiH presidency, or Minister of the BiH Army, on events in Bilec and Manjaca, when taking an oath from the Joint Army of BiH. 7 This reaction, neither the Presidency nor the Minister of the Army, is simply ignoring this parliament and another act of putting an obstacle to the development of this country and the regulation of the situation in this country. I thank such a presidency and such a Minsitor of the military.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17812	Thank you, Mr. Potočnik. Let the word be taken by Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, and prepare for Mr. Hazim Felić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17813	So I have three questions. One is the Ministry of Justice, the other is the Council of Ministers, the third is the Ministry of Civil Affairs. I'm guessing they're competent addresses. Very short, and the consequences are precisely the demands of citizens who are looking for answers to these questions. First, on the basis of which, therefore, the question of the Ministry of Justice, on the basis of which the regulation is under the name Merhamet and the same address in Sarajevo, a registered new humanitarian society, although under the name Merhamet, a protected name, and in the same address for more than 10 years, has been active by the restored Merhamet Society, which heritage and represents the continuity of the Merhamet Society, founded in the early 20th century? I'm looking for a written answer. The second question to the Council of Ministers, by which act, whose decision and under what conditions, is, if I am well informed, the Elektroprivred Republic of Croatia is also given for use and owned to freely interpret, the Buško lake and plants in it, so its hydropotential, and is what being done that BiH and its citizens are mastering this significant economic resource? I also expect a written answer. And thirdly, in view of the degree of equipment with modern computer technology and equipment, is it possible to verify health books based on an insight into the database that is conducted instead of insisting on showing the identity card, when the verification instead of the insurance provider is looking for a secure person who is not an insurance provider? I ask this question for practical reasons, actually to encourage citizens who are concerned, why modern equipment serves us if it will not simplify the exercise of citizens' rights and procedures. I'm looking for a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17814	Thank you. Mr. Hazim Felić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17815	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. The question of the Direct Taxation Board, Director, is the indirect Taxation Authority filled in in accordance with the Law and, if it is not, are its regional centres also filled in in accordance with the law? Thank you very much. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17816	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to ask a question? Mr. Sead Avdić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17817	I would like to thank the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the honored guests, and I would like to make a suggestion to the College to ask the Council of Ministers for synopcis or information about the talks with Chancellor Šroder who was in BiH yesterday and neither of the other Koelgis had a chance to speak with Chancellor Šreder. So the information from the interviews was made yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17818	Thank you. Next, who wants to ask a question? Thank you very much, Your Honor, and I'm sorry, I didn't see. Mr. Petar Kunić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17819	Thank you, Mr. President. I would remind myself that I had asked the question backwards maybe a month, two months, about the Directorate for indirect taxation, so I didn't get that answer, I didn't get that answer, and I would pray that in some way that the College intervened towards that institution, or the head of that institution, to get an answer to the asked question.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17820	Thank you very much. This is registered and will be done. Who else wants to ask a question? Anybody else? Then, with your permission, I'd like to conclude, with your permission, I'd like to conclude this item on the agenda. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we move on to the third item of the agenda, so let me read it, to enter the third point of the agenda. I guess why you're answering, Mr. Zorić, let me just read this. The third item of the agenda is A.3. Meeting the vacant seat of the BiH presidency member from the Croatian people You are familiar with the distinguished colleagues and colleagues that the High Representative, Mr Dragan Čović, has relieved the duties of a member of the BiH presidency. We have had such a situation in this House's assembly, for once Parliament has called this kind of work, but I will remind you, however, of the provisions of the law on filling the vacancy of a member of the BiH presidency. So, I'm going to quote the provisions concerning this situation. Article 1 – the law reads – if a member of the BiH presidency dies, resigns or otherwise is relieved of his duties, members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly shall make a choice at the meetings in order to fill the vacancy of members of the Bureau. Article 2 – only a member of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives who is from the same constituent people and who has been elected from the territory of the same entity as a member of the Presidency whose meeting was held may be elected in accordance with this law. Article 3 – any political party represented in the House of Representatives may propose one candidate who fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 2 of this Act. A member of the House of Representatives who has been elected as an independent candidate and who also fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 2 of this Act may be a candidate for the vacancy of a member of the Bureau. Article 4 – if the seat of a member of the Presidency elected from Republika Srpska or one member of the Presidency elected from the territory of the Federation of BiH is vacant, each member of the House of Representatives shall be elected from that entity, as well as a member of the Presidency whose seat has been vacant, may give only one vote. A candidate who receives the highest number of votes will be appointed. If a uniform number of votes arises, they will be appointed by scratching. I hope these provisions are clear to you. I note that we should appoint a member of the Croatian People's House of Representatives and elected from the territory of the Federation of BiH, so we appoint a member of the predsjeništvo who is a member of the Croatian People's House of Representatives and who has been elected from the territory of the Federation of BiH. Mr. Vinko Zorić, president of the HDZ Club, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17821	On behalf of the HDZ Club, I'm looking for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17822	At the request of the HDZ-Demist Club, I'm setting a 30-minute break and we're continuing to work precisely, 5 to 12. By the Vice-President, Mr Raguž's College member, that an act that is being copied from the HDZ will be shared by the HDZ, I only ask for a little attention while the document is being copied and entered here in the hall. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17823	I thank you for your patience and for your understanding. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17824	But we're waiting for the material to be divided, aren't we? Okay, okay, thanks. My colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, here you are right now getting one material from the Croatian Democratic Community signed by the president, Mr Bariša Čolak, who is present here at the session. The material has been number I01-26/05 since 03 May 2005. The presidents of the parliamentary majority's parties at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, in which it stands. Dearly beloved, we want to introduce you to the Croatian Democratic Community of BiH candidate for the vacancy of Croatian member of the BiH presidency as representative of the HDZ in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Mr Ivo Miro Jović. From you and your MPs at the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I expect support from our candidate to be elected at a session of this House, scheduled for 4 May 2005. This is the document we've been waiting for, isn't it? All right, all right. Here, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, now we've got a name, please nice, you've got the material, here you are now familiar. Mr. Zorić, this is the HDZ proposal, right? Okay. Here's Mr. Zorić's confirmation, too, so. Mr. Beriz Belkić is asking for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17825	I have, in fact, a request for one, to keep things clear, clear, and that the procedure is not to say so burdened with ambiguities. Here are the people who reacted, etc. We expect a proposal from the club, so a proposal from the Croatian Democratic Community's club, so this is a letter sent to party presidents and it's quite understandable and that's okay. However, I ask that the club of MPs or HDZ or anyone come out with a proposal, an official proposal from the candidates. This really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17826	I call either the president of the HDZ Club or the president of the HDZ that is present here, please, nicely, that at the pay phone here, here for Mr. Beriz Belkić's intervention, says this, what is required. Please be nice, Article 3. The law, I repeat, any political party represented in the House of Representatives may propose one candidate who fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 2 of this Law, so that he is a member of the House of Representatives and that he is from the order of the Croatian people in this case, is that so. A member of the House of Representatives who has been elected as an independent candidate and who also fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 2 of this law may be a candidate for the vacancy of a member of the BiH presidency. So, in a letter from the political party, hence the HDZ, it stands – we want to introduce you to the HDZ candidate for the vacant post of Croatian member 11 of the BiH presidency, the representative of the HDZ, in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Mr Ivo Miro Jović. So here are the club presidents who said that this document that we're waiting for is actually, that proposal, and here is the president of the HDZ who signed this document. So this is what we got. Any new candidates? And, here, I'm opening the debate. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17827	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I don't have any new candidates, since you asked, but you have called, this is still one in the final case and a solemn act for this parliament, and I think this should still be done in a way that is appropriate for the election of a member of the BiH presidency of a constituent people, in the order of the Croatian people, in a specific case. Article 3 The law on filling the vacant post, which you have quoted multiple times, says any political party represented in the House of Representatives can propose a candidate who meets the requirement. And, the party may suggest a candidate is whether, if he has already seen the law here, recognized the party, it can be proposed through the party president, or through the head of the club of MPs, which is both quite acceptable to us. But don't make this, it's unnecessary, you who have identified who your candidate is, you have a majority, you have the legality and legitimacy to go out with it. And there's no reason for this election of members of the Presidency to turn one of the three constituent nations into something in which no one will go out and explain to Parliament, as if something was wrong. Namely, the paper we got wasn't paper that satisfied the legal form. The paper we got was a paper that's two days old. So if it's two days old to let go for a moment, there's no need, what we've been losing for half a day today or getting half a day. But this paper was signed by President Bariša Čolak and sent to the presidents of parliamentary majority parties in the House of Representatives. So this is paper, internal communication between the president of one of the parliamentary majority parties and his colleagues, the president of these parties. This paper, in itself, is not a procedural or legal thing that exists before... I would therefore ask, firstly I would ask or the president of the party to come to us for a pay phone, that, as well as to approach a situation like this, he would suggest to us a candidate with an appropriate explanation or that the president of the club of representatives from that party should also come to us with an appropriate explanation. It would be good to be told that this candidate has come forward, so that we others can factor in the right way and it's in our best interest to get a better candidate. A candidate who will represent not only one party or part of one party, but a candidate who will represent the BiH state in the right way, to tell us what the criteria are, how you have come to this, what principles, why you have defined yourself for this candidate, what his experience, what his political profile is, is that man who, in this time we still have before him, is a man uniting a political scene in BiH because it is sharing, etc. 12 If he is the only one, is he a man who will be directed at this or that tomorrow in some division of the Presidency and who are even the reasons why this happened. I don't want to be maligned in any way, I'm trying to do this, because if I'm being maligned, I'm asking us why a member of the Presidency who has a fear of flying, how he knows he's only going to be in the country that he's not going to deal with the outside shallows or anything like that, but I'm not going to, I'm going to skip it. So, I would ask, Mr. Chairman, that we do business and legally what is mandatory for someone to go out for this pay phone and send us paper, a proposal officially in front of the club or in front of a party that is addressed to an address called the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17828	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if you have followed me, I have twice asked for what Mr. Lagumdžija said, or for the president of the club or for the president of the party. So here I am calling again either the president of the club or the president of the party, to come out for a pay phone and to the official parlament, please welcome Mr Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17829	If you're asking me to talk about this on behalf of the club, I'm gonna have to ask for a break. We agreed at the club to do what we did. If you're asking me to speak for the club, I'm looking for a break for at least 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17830	Please, I mean,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17831	I can't help it, I can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17832	How about the president of the party?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17833	Yeah, if you think it wasn't any trouble and we spent two or three hours sucks, then we're lying about whether, I mean, I'm here, saying that I can't perform on behalf of the club without a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17834	Mr. Čolak, Mr. Bariša Čolak, president of HDZ.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17835	Mr. Chairman, sorry, respected MPs, I don't have any other paper that I can offer you right now, but no problem is that you get 13-party paper, so this is a proposal from the Croatian Democratic Community, you've got it, I can naturally and verbally give you arguments, but I don't think that neither legal nor business rules are prescribed strict rules, if so you demand such a thing, this, of course, can be delivered. If you're asking the club to deliver anything, I think the club can do it, too, it's the least of the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17836	Thank you. Here's Mr. Nijaz Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17837	I don't have any suggestions, I just have one protest. I mean, if this parliament had come to a humiliating situation, indeed, it had lost every dignity and dignity and I would have asked you as chairman to intervene. Endless breaks do not lead or pauses, do not really lead to anything but humiliation and us who have lost all patience. There's been a lot of solutions here. It could have been this point if the gentlemen at the club hadn't agreed, or in the party's presidency and the party's leadership, they could have asked that this item of the agenda be, like, a line or at one of the next sessions. It could have come out with other suggestions and we could have continued this session on the established agenda, leaving this point at the last, so we could do our job until the gentlemen agree. I beg you as a colleague, to act in that sense. Don't put us in a position to get everyone out of here collectively now and bring this parliament to the lowest point in this bar mandate. Well, that's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17838	I thank Mr. Duraković. Let me tell you, therefore, the College is the body of this Parliament, which at least or almost doesn't contribute, or contribute to this situation. We're just trying to get out of this situation. It is therefore a very sensitive issue, and we must all approach with understanding this fact that today we are here at the request of the HDZ Club, setting breaks that are not common in our work. We are now, therefore, also heard the official proposal of the party president, which is actually what we have here in front of us. Mr. Nikola Špirić wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17839	Gentlemen, the chairman, the esteemed fellow Members and fellow Members of the Members of the Council of Ministers, I think that the natural time we spent in the breaks may be considered one or the other, but I think that we have come into a situation where conditions arise that we must plead regardless of what one of these can create one, the other and the third, which one would like, one or more candidates or one or more. No political party is forbidden to propose a candidate, I think it is important for this parliament to respect the Rules of Procedure. He is honored by the very appearance of HDZ President Mr. Čolak. I ask you 14 that we do not further make this Parliament not to contribute ourselves to bringing it down to a level at which it should not be, unless there are new proposals, I think that this Parliament and those MPs who are doing business should approach the procedure of the plea. I don't think we should even do that to HDZ, for me quite quantifiablely, if the president of a political party, and so it writes in the Rules of Procedure, comes out and says it's a proposal from that political organisation. If the club has another proposal, if another political organisation has another proposal, then we can open the debate and I ask you, we lost, so I don't think that the time has been lost, it's been a long time, we weren't at the club's request we were collegiate, so we didn't, we didn't want to, let us do the job today to complete the Presidency, to do the obligations that are of interest to BiH. Not the choice of members of the presidency is more damage to BiH than to elect a member of the presidency, so Parliament can carry out its constitutional competence. For me, conditions have been obtained for Parliament to declare itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17840	Of course, thank you, Mr. Špirić. Parliament will certainly plead. Mr. Momčilo Novaković asked for a word, after which Mr. Vinko Zorić asked for a word. We're in the middle of a debate now.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17841	I thank the chairman, distinguished colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, that perhaps at least, if you want and the reasons and rights, that we from the RS should discuss this issue, but I must say that we are waiting together with the others, so here and that gives us some right to perhaps try to contribute in some way to the debate and this point of the agenda bring an end. I consider the discussions of some colleagues quite incorrect because many times we have wasted a lot of time here on the barren resolutions that some of these, here, have proposed and then it wasn't a waste of time. For me it was also how lost but we are Parliament, we have debated the way we discussed and brought what we have brought. I don't think it's a waste of time if you have to choose a member of the presidency, but also, I don't think others who don't have suggestions should make it difficult for those who have suggestions. So no one defends the SDP club to propose a candidate if it has the right of the Croatian people or any other Federation club to propose a candidate, so let's get into this debate that started and we only have one candidate, so we can choose between multiple candidates. Since we don't have it, I also think it's time for this point to end. Whether to vote, whether to move, but in any case, to bring an end and that this session goes its course.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17842	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Mr. Vinko Zorić, please. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17843	Here's a lot of people say, I'm just at the club's house once again apologizing to everyone who's damaged, and everyone who's waiting is damaged. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17844	Thank you, Mr. Vinko Zorić. Next, whoever wants to talk. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17845	Well, first of all, I thank the president of HDZ for coming out, so he brought us back into such a colossum that what they see, we have, is in accordance with the law. It is quite enough that the party's president, who is the official party president, is to say and suggest something here for the parliamentary speaker. That's quite enough and he doesn't need to sign it. We're serious people. What I am sorry, is that there is no explanation, a proposal, one explanation that this election of members of the Croatian People's Presidency would go to convince those of us who think this is not a good solution, that we might consider choosing a member of the Presidency as something that is as much more possible for the ruling coalition if, it would not be bad enough to give a little hand to the other part of Parliament. The SDS' concern for the election of a Croatian member of the Federation presidency is touching. Really touching. And I agree that there's been a lot of discussion here in this House and the topics that go and that are recorded in accounting, one day when someone is making a historical bookkeeping, they'll see that it belongs to the category of lost time. However, time has been lost, as much as we spend waiting or in discussion, unless we use everything to get as good a solution as possible, which will be something that will bring us a little closer. Since we haven't received any arguments on the criteria, on principles, on the political profile, on what a member of the Presidency will stand for, we have to naturally base ourselves on what we ourselves know from our work of Parliament that we have here, and it doesn't give us any great trust. You don't need to be afraid and we are, the SDP has the ability to suggest someone from its ranks. The SDP can propose someone from other parties, and it's not, we can suggest Ruža, so ours is here with Ruža. But it's something we don't need either Ruža or us. We can also propose to Joza Križanović, but the SDP has no legitimacy either. No, no, we know exactly what we're saying. We do not have a parliamentary majority for our member of the presidency to sit in the parliamentary majority and in the presidency to be the executive authority to do the country's integration in further reforms. So that's why we don't think we have a worse candidate. On the contrary. The candidate should also have the legality and legitimacy that allows the country's executive power to be quality and work in co-operation with the parliamentary majority of the Council of Ministers. We've got it. I only asked you to demonstrate it in some way and to convince us of both the most public in Bosnia and Herzegovina why you are going with this proposal. Uh, it's your choice, we're not asking Vink Zorić again to explain this proposal. It must be harder for him than it is for me at this 16th moment. Nor do we ask Bariša Čolak to explain how much he agrees with that break and other suggestions made by Vink Zorić. But what's there is. We were just trying to hear something from you that would bring us together a little bit more here. Unfortunately, I fear this will divide us in a way that you are already divided within the HDZ and you within the ruling coalition. But that's no longer the problem with the Zlatko of Lagumdžija or the SDP.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17846	Thank you. Mr. Momčilo Novaković asked for a word for the replica. That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17847	Yes, it is. I didn't really mention Mr. Lagumdžija anywhere. I don't know where he found himself there. Apparently he found himself in what I was saying. I didn't mention him, because I don't listen to Mr. Lagumdžija so I can mention him. So I just don't see him here.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17848	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? May I have your attention, please? Who else wants to talk? If no one answers their word anymore, I'm the one who concludes the debate. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we move on to a plea. We're moving on to a plea. Members of the Federation vote. So, the Federation MPs vote. There are relevant votes for the law. Please, here's some Home Secretary to clarify. May I have your attention, please? The Secretary of the House will give you an explanation of the law. We know how we voted last time when it was Paravc, how it was voted in the last term when it was Mr. Belkić and Mr. Križanović. It is the same practice and in this case the same practice will be applied.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17849	Just a few clarifications so there's no confusion. This is the fourth time we've voted. Under the Law on Fulfilling the vacancy of members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency, published in Official Messenger No. 21 of 2000, it was distributed to the House so that it could be better managed today. Since this is a special regulation, it also has a special, special type of voting, so I am obliged to warn you of a Article 4 of this law that decidently says
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17850	May I have your attention, please? 17
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17851	if the seat of a member of the Presidency elected from the territory of Republika Srpska or one member of the Presidency elected from the territory of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is in particular our case, each member of the House of Representatives shall be elected from the same entity as a member of the Bureau whose seat has been vacant may give only one vote. A candidate who receives the highest number of votes will be appointed. So here the votes that "for" will identify the person to be appointed today as a member of the BiH presidency. So the votes that are "against" and which are "abstained" under the provisions of this law do not affect the result of the election of a member of the Bureau. ________(?) [[not enabled]] Well, you know what this is, the electronic voting system, and it's probably not right to stop the MPs from showing up. But only the votes "for" will determine who was elected member of the BiH presidency. I note that this is the fourth time we've voted, and we've really known these results before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17853	Thank you. Mr. Lagumdžija is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17854	Indeed, this is one specific innovation that is neither the first nor the last that we have seen and heard in this home, is it? In the manner that the Secretary of the House explained, and you, the chairman, correct me if I'm wrong, in the way it's explained, if three people are "for" and the others are "abstained" and "against" and those who are "against" being more than 3, you want to say that since one candidate is then he is certainly elected. I mean, don't say that. That's how you explained it to us. So it turns out whether, and if I want to be malignant as read in this way, it says – if there were a uniform number of votes, and I could interpret it as an equal number of "for" and "against" on the same candidate, so if by any chance the same number were "for" as "against" Mr. Jović, then it would be decided whether Mr. Jovic, for whom we were "for" or Mr. Jović for whom we were "against" had been elected. So don't introduce us. You have most of it, and don't make any of this. So if the number of those who are “for” is greater than those who are “against” then that one candidate has been elected. I guess that's the way it is. Explain if it isn't. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17855	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. So here we have the Law which the Secretary of the House clearly, precisely explained, we have practice. We have practice. This is the fourth choice and I will remind you that the members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency have been elected so far, let me not mention the names here in Parliament with 9 votes, with 6 votes and last time, I think with 7 votes. I apologize to one of these people if I'm in one voice, if I've made a mistake in one voice. The Secretary of the House has therefore filed an argument regarding how to vote. I invite you to prepare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17856	I mean, don't, I'm really asking you not to correct unnecessary, unnecessary shadows remain. And when there were 9 and 6 and 7, every time there were those who were “for” was greater than the number of those who were “against”.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17857	They are not asked, Mr Lagumdžija, whether they are “against” or “abstained”. Please, it's a procedure. You can change the law. I'm asking Secretary Dom to come out again. Please nice, I need this kind of problem here at least, Mr. Lagumdžija and I'm asking you not to make a problem out of this act here. And I call upon the Secretary of the House again to read you the law and say,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17858	I don't need to read, let him explain. It wasn't a problem reading, the problem was an explanation, but here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17859	Please, I call on the Secretary of the House once again to read the provision of the law and to give the interpretation of what we have done on three occasions, as we have interpreted this law. Please give me these phones.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17860	I'd just ask you not to call me to interpret the law. I give my opinion in violation of the law and repeat that this is the fourth time we vote in this 19 way. If you feel that it is not enough, we can withdraw in a short time to bring this issue into line. Anyway, I want to read it to you again, since I'm asked by the House's leadership and I'm asking for just a little patience. - If a member of the Bureau has been elected from the territory of Republika Srpska or one member of the presidency elected from the territory of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, each member of the House of Representatives shall be elected from the same entity, as well as a member of the Presidency whose seat may be vacant only one vote. A candidate who receives the highest number of votes will be appointed. If a uniform number of votes arises, they will be appointed by drawing. This implies the situation that we have more candidates who have received the same number of votes and then you have to draw to know which person is appointed. Please, I'm just reading the law and in the last session I said the same thing that I didn't want to interpret, especially the law that was first declared on temporary grounds by the High Representative, and then the Parliamentary Assembly adopted it and, please, if you have trouble giving a break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17861	Thank you very much, Secretary. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think the way to vote is therefore quite clear. We know the practice, we were the ones who once applied that practice. They were MPs from another entity. They are now members of the Federation. I invite you to prepare for the vote. I urge you to prepare for the vote and vote now. The Federation now. Ten MPs are in, nine is against, five is restrained. You can get a list. Keep me a little bit of this score now, if you can keep it on the monitor. So the Federation voted, 10 MPs in favour, 9 is against and 5 is abstentioned. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has chosen Mr Ivo Mir Jović as a member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. The proposal will be sent to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for confirmation. On behalf of the House of Representatives and on my own behalf, I congratulate Mr. Ivo Miri Jović. Share lists to all those interested in this listing. 20 Dear colleagues and colleagues, we move to the fourth item of the agenda, Add.4. The request of MEP Mirsad Ćeman to consider the draft law on the foundations of Bosnia and Herzegovina's geomatics by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Ambassador Mirsad Ćeman's Rules of Procedure, the bill's proposal, was submitted to the parliamentary procedure on 13 April this year. His request is that the draft law be considered in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a hearing at Mr. Ćeman's request. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman is asking for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17862	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I believe that in the written explanation of this law, I have cited sufficient arguments in favour of and the adoption of the law itself, and in the accompanying act that I have stated, i.e. by which I have submitted the bill and sufficient arguments to comply with Article 104. I would not repeat, I only expect you to support this so that at least we can be in a position to discuss this law as soon as possible, and if not, as is knownly accepted, the procedure under Article 104 goes into regular procedure. I think it would make sense at least by cutting this deadline in half to allow this law to be discussed as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17863	So here's the deal. I have one intervention, with the right of the deputy chairman, after this part of the agenda I wanted to move on with the work, but I think Mr. Špirić is absolutely right. We still need to give a five-minute break to congratulate Mr Jović and give appropriate comments to the media, because the media are here and waiting. I'm taking a five-minute break, but don't take more than five minutes, please. A little attention. [[PAUZA]] We're going back to work. So Mr. Ćeman you've given your explanation. Who else wants to talk? If no one is answering for a word anymore, we move to a statement on Mr. Ćeman's request for a procedure under Article 104 of this law. 21 Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 16 for, 12 against, no abstinence, no entity majority from RS. Can we get along? You disagree. We're going to a counter-vote. I call on MPs from the RS, since there is no entity majority from there, for those who are against being prepared and voted against. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 10 is against, that's more than 2/3. So the proposal is not accepted and goes into regular procedure. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, that's Ad.5. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. We had this point at the 55th session. As you know, there was no entity majority on the emergency request. The coordination procedure has been carried out in the College as the Commission. No consent has been reached. The Commission's report you received from the College. I call upon those MPs who are opposed to preparing and voting. The ones that are against it. So from both entities, those who are against should prepare and vote against this request for Article 105. Prepare to vote and vote now. The opposition from Republika Srpska is 10, so this is more than 2/3, and I realize that this proposal for article 105 is not accepted and the law goes into regular procedure, that it remains in force of the High Representative's law and remains so, but this law goes into regular, in fact remains in force practically if we go to point six, that's Ad.6. The Commission's report on the efforts to reach an agreement on the proposal of MP Adem Huskić to discuss the report on the visits made by BiH institutions in the field of defence and security I would Podsjetić you that at the last session in the framework of the report on the visits made by BiH institutions in the area and security, which was submitted to the House by the Joint Defence and Security Policy Commission, MP Adem Huskić proposed to supplement the conclusions contained in the Commission's report, which is that the Dom is in charge of the Ministry of Security to launch laws governing the area of private security companies in Bosnia and 22 Herzegovina, as well as the Law on Wearing, supply and use of light weapons in private ownership. The proposal for this conclusion did not receive an entity majority, so the College carried out a coordination procedure. No agreement has been reached on this conclusion in the College Commission either. I call on MPs from the Republic of Srspka, because they were against this and it wasn't the entity majority of RS to prepare for the vote, those who are against it. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 10 from RS, that's more than 2/3. I find that this conclusion has not even received parliamentary support. We're going to the 7th agenda point, that's Ad.7. The draft law on the rights and duties of members of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the Constitutional and Legal Commission report is in parliamentary procedure since 21 November 2003. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 16 December 2003. The College has appointed a Constitutional and Legal Commission as competent. A report by the committee responsible was submitted on 13.4.2005. You got the report. You have seen that the Commission did not support the principles of the proposed law and that it concluded that there were no conditions for the continuation of the legislative procedure on this bill. The Commission also found, in addition to the report, that no need to regulate this area through law does not exclude the possibility, i.e. the need for the single law in this area to cover the Presidency and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also other beneficiaries who pay and other work-related benefits are received from the budget, such as administrations, agencies, institutions, commissions, services and others. We've often had negative reports of the proposed laws lately, so I hope you're familiar with the procedure. I am opening a debate on the commission's report, and the voting procedure is such that if a commission report is accepted, the law is definitely considered a failure. If no commission report is adopted, then the law returns to a new parliamentary, that is, a new commission phase. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. I invite you to come forward with a report from the commission. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 16 for, 11 against, 2 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. A report by the Constitutional and Legal Commission has been adopted and this law has definitely been kicked out of parliamentary procedure, but in a business and regulatory manner. 23 So the dom supported the Commission's position not to accept this law and this law no longer exists in the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Moving to the eighth point of the agenda, that's Ad.8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Rights of Members of National Minorities with the Report of the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum - MPs Martin Raguž, Mirsad Ćeman, Selim Bešlagić The proposal for this law was submitted in parliamentary procedure on December 3rd 2004. It is a competent committee for human rights, immigration, refugees and asylum. You received a report from the commission on 21 April this year. You've seen the Commission support the principles of the law. However, the Commission did not support the draft law as a whole, but accepted the opinion of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, who considers that the Law on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities should not be changed, as before the adoption in Parliament was discussed both by the Venice Commission and agreed with the opinion of that body. Our commission also proposed that the College of the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly set out criteria for the establishment and selection of the Council of National Minorities, as foreseen by the law, and speed up the process of setting them up. I don't think this conclusion is a commission, I don't think this conclusion of the commission could be accepted, because it doesn't comply with the law. I'm opening a debate on the commission's report. I note that if the reports were to adopt that this last part of what is required of the home college should be abandoned. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17864	My colleagues and colleagues, I am one of the legislators of this law, and if by any chance the Civil Initiative Centre had not delivered a letter to all of us, I would have been part of this argument that they put here before you. In order not to waste our time, I just wanted to appeal to you that, with all due respect, the Human Rights Commission that discussed the bill and found what it had found and made its statement, I still suggest that we do not accept its report because indeed some findings, certain arguments as such do not stand objectively, or at least on some issues we should even consider perhaps deeper things, etc. For this reason, in order not to really repeat what is in the light of the law in line with the law itself, but in a letter from the Civil Initiatives Centre, I therefore support this letter which we have received, and I think that one more human rights commission should really be given the opportunity, but also to the legislators that potentially controversial issues and possible compromises on 24 issues should be reached. That's why I'm pushing for rejection, that's why. by voting against the Commission's Human Rights Report relating to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities and its Amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17865	Thank you. Who wants to talk any further? I'm closing the debate. We move to vote on the Commission's report. If the Commission's report is not accepted, then the Commission's guidelines are for the Commission to make a report again, respecting this and this which came from the letter of these, the Centre of Civil Initiatives, and what Mr. Mirsad Ćeman was talking about, not respecting but taking into account the debate and the fact that it came from them, whether or not they will respect it, this is another matter, and what Mr. Mirsad Djeman was talking about, but that it is certainly taking care of the Council of Ministers' views, so let the Commission take it one more time to consider it. So I invite you to plead. We vote on the Commission's report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 12 is against, 19 is against, the Commission's report has not been accepted and the College has already decided, I think you agree, these guidelines that I was just talking about, that these are guidelines to the Commission and that 30 days should be for a new report. So this is determined by here, College, you voted practically, when you voted against the Commission's Report and on this proposal for a conclusion. If that's how we can make sure we don't vote again. Can we? Thank you very much. We move to the ninth item of the agenda, so the thing goes back to the Commission with these 30-day guidelines and deadlines. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda, that's Ad.9. The motion for a resolution on anti-fascism was proposed by MPs Zlatko Lagumdžija, Jozo Križanović, Selim Bešlagić, who followed the conclusion of the House from last session. They considered the amendments and offered a new text of the resolution. The new text of the resolution you got, I'm opening the debate. Who wants to talk? Mr. Beriz Belkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17866	The Party for BiH MPs' club will sort of be put into a situation to determine whether to send a position towards Europe from BiH, or a message when it comes to these 25 days being marked in Europe, or not. So we will support this resolution. However, we couldn't help but in some ways not to trouble ourselves or to ask the promoter and also those who brought the proponent into the situation to be in this dilemma, I suppose, which we are in, why ZVNOBiH is a problem for this resolution. Indeed, why is he the problem for this resolution? It is therefore more a question both to the Proposer and to those who have put the Proposer in a situation that the original text of the resolution corrects in this sense, that we do not go further, into details where some other things have been thrown out, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-05-04-0.u17867	I thank Mr. Belkić. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. I urge you to prepare for a statement of resolution. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 29 for, against no one, 3 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. I find that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has adopted the Resolution on Anti-fascism, whose proposings are MPs Zlatko Lagumdžija, Jozo Križanović and Selim Bešlagić, in the text that has been delivered to you today after the amendments have been submitted, in the text you received today. It will be published in "The Official Messenger of BiH". Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am from the President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, when it comes to the 10th agenda, informed that the Commission simply did not have time to do its part of the job and to rediscover the report. We don't have a report from the Commission and I left anything else but to suggest that we put this item on the agenda of the next session, because we won't take this off until we're done with the session, so I urge you to accept this proposal, because it's only logical. We don't have a constitutional-legal commission. Prepare to vote on this proposal. Vote now. - 27 is for, there's no one against, abstention 1, sufficient entity majority. This conclusion has been accepted. We'll have this at the next session. I would like to ask the Constitutional and Legal Commission, the next session will be held before 18 May because we have an obligation to hold a session before the European Commission, related to the evaluation of the BiH Implementation Study. I call for another time, I use the opportunity, our two commissions, the Transport and Communications Commission, regarding the Law on the Public TV System Act, to do its part of the job and the Commission on Finance and Budget, relating to the Public Debt Act, to do its part of the job, so that we can hold a session there before 18th most likely 17th, we will agree here in the College, but here is the Constitutional and Legal Commission to finish all of the work on this. 26 Moving to the 11th point of the agenda, that is Ad.11. Giving consent to ratification under (a) the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on Co-operation on the fight against terrorism, (b) the transfer and acceptance of persons at the state border between the Government of the Republic of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Hungary, (c) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic official passports, (d) the Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Slovenia on mutual assistance in customs matters, (e) the Agreement on the Protection of Investments between BiH and the Kingdom of Denmark and (f) the Sixth Amendment to the Treaty on Financial Assistance between BiH and the United States on the Municipal Infrastructure and Services, if possible, if possible, we have a unanimous proposal from the two members of the College to give these consent. All right, then, individually. Pod, a) Mr. Novaković, no consent for the package, Momčilo, no consent for the package is it? Can we pack everything? Well, get ready to vote for the package then. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 29 for, no problem, three abstentions, enough entity majority. I agree that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives agreed to ratify international agreements under item 11 of the agenda of today's session, from a) to f), a,b,c,d,e, and f, as I read it in the introduction of an explanation for this item of the agenda. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this way, we have exhausted the agenda of today's session. I am taking the opportunity to call the Commission for Transport and Communications once again, or traffic and connections, then the Commission for Finance and Budget and the Constitutional and Legal Commission to discuss these three issues of the Law on the Public TV System, then, the Law on Public Debt and related to this Naturalisation, do their part of the work as soon as possible because the session will probably be 17 before the 18th, I can't specify the term, I need to agree with my colleagues on the date of this session. Thank you, I announce that we have finished this session today at 3:10 p.m. Thank you.
