ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-30-0.u4632	I am opening the 44th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina 12 delegates are present at the session, of which 4 from the Bosniak people and 3 from the order of the Croatian people, 4 from the order of the Serb people. Excuse me, 11. Eight and three is eleven. This says 12. Velimir Jukić, Hilmo Neimarlija and Boško Šiljegović justified their lack. However, he justified the lack of Mr Spajić, meanwhile. For the 44th session, I propose the next agenda. The Joint Commission's report on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Railways Act. I'm opening a debate. I ask the Commission, the President of the Commission. Ad.1. Joint Commission Report on Efforts to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Railways Act
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-30-0.u4633	My colleagues and colleagues, I am in front of the Commission to brief on the work of this committee. The Commission considered differences in the texts. Namely, in 8.6.2005, the House of Representatives, and in 29.6.2005, the House of Peoples adopted the Law on the Railways of Bosnia and Herzegovina with a distinction in 9 amendments. 2 These 9 amendments have been discussed today on the Joint Commission and, after reviewing the amendments, the Joint Commission has agreed to the text in a way that has accepted all 9 amendments and therefore, according to the Commission's proposal, they now constitute the text of the Law. The proposal of the Joint Commission is to accept this report and thus give consent, i.e. to pass the Law on the Bosnia and Herzegovina Railways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-30-0.u4634	Thank you very much, Mr. Čengić. I am voting on the Joint Commission's report on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Railways of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's in? So we accept that. So it can be electronic. Let's see the results of the vote. How do you vote this? It's unanimous now. Let's raise our voices. Please, who's in? We unanimously accepted the Commission's report and thus the Law on Railways was definitely adopted. Thank you very much. I wish you good luck in life and around life. The session was completed at 6:10 p.m.
