ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the debate on topical and urgent questions, I would like to make a reference to the loss of former Vice-President and MEP Tasos Neradzis. On behalf of the President of Parliament, the Bureau and all the fellow Members, I would like to express my grief for the loss of former Members of the Second Piraeus of the New Democracy and Vice-President of the Parliament, Tassos Neradzis. Tasos Neradzis, a long and important politician, founding member of the New Democracy, MP for many years, State Secretary for Transport and Communications and State Secretary for Development. With devotion, labour and therefore represented his fellow citizens in the Second Piraeus Region, who elected him in nine elections. Tasos Neradzis praised the Greek Parliament, which served with a separate ethos from different positions, as he became Secretary General, Vice-President, Chairman of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency and a member of the Committee on Revision of the Constitution. In his family and in his relatives we express our warmest condolences. Be light on the ground covering him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u3	Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I would also like to take the floor before the timely questions from the Second Piraeus Region, which I represent on behalf of the rest of the Piraeus colleagues who are with us today. A worthy colleague, former Minister and MP of the Second Region of Piraeus, New Democracy, Tasos Neradzis is no longer with us. It was a parliamentarian with a high sense of responsibility, with a democratic conscience, with patriotism and a sense of duty. This was a Nikiotis and Mirasiatis on the origins of politics, which, however he did, influenced, either by dealing with one another or with culture as President of the Association of Friends of Nice or by sport in the past, since - let us not forget - has been a champion. Tasos Neradzis has been a life fighter, a personality that, with his presence post-culturally in both society and Parliament - let us not forget that he was Vice-President of Parliament and Secretary-General - helped our people's regions, helped the ordinary and tested citizen. A man multi-level, there was one of the longest Greek MPs, elected for the first time in 1974 in an emblematic parliament, while left his mark indelibly as Deputy Minister of Transport, promoting first - which is very important - the demarcation of the two metro stations in the second Piraeus Region, but also at the same time left his mark as Deputy Minister of Development. As parliamentarians and citizens of the 2nd Piraeus Region and the wider Piraeus region, together here with my good colleagues from the 1st Piraeus Region, we will ensure that his memory does not erase and his political reserve for a better Piraeus to go from generation to generation. Let the soil be light.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u5	Thank you. Because I see more of Piraeus, would anyone want to say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u6	No, Mr. Markopoulos covered you. Please keep a minute silence in his memory.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u7	His memory is eternity.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that today will be discussed: The question under number 927-7-7-2021 by MP B1' North Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kleonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "Amendment to the orchestra "Camerata - Orchestra of Friends of Music". Question No 910/29-6-2021 by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "The seafront of Thesprotia: in addition to the port facilities, the beaches are sold". The Question No 913/1-7-2021 by MP Halkidiki of the Change Movement Mr.Astalos Pana to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Integration of the green olive of Halkidiki in the exceptional compensation for ice-cream." The Question No 914/1-7-2021 by MP B2' West Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Conversion of the University General Hospital of P.G.N. Attica in public-private PPPs'. The question under number 917/2-7-2021 by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Direct correction of school writings distributing malicious and unscientific words". The question under number 928/7-201 by MP Florina of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theophistis (Petis) Perkas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Financing for transition to lignite areas and allocation of resources". The question by No 921/5-7-2021 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Digital Governance, on the subject: "A solution to recognition of legacys from the Land Register". We will begin with the ninth No 927/7-2021 topical question by MP B1' North Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Amendment to the orchestra "Camerata - Friends Orchestra of Music". Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, since I thank you, as you do every time, for doing us a favor for you to be yourself, and I really thank you for that, I want to speak a little while ago about the history of Cameron, which I am sure you know, as well as I do. It is a multipathic story as Camerata - Orchestra of Friends of Music, one of the musical ornaments of our country, already with the advent of the memorials began to be underfunded. Already in 2010, and from now on, these people have been working with money against, according to the so-called. But, Minister, since 2015, where completely surprisingly and unnecessarily resigned all the Board of Directors of Cameron, the governments that have been intervening, that is, the previous ones from you and your two years now, you have not appointed a board of directors to the seat of the outgoing party. This is strange and already creates a number of problems for musicians working in Cameroon. Such problems are - which you know - that since 2015 they have not even taken 1 euros. So these people work unpaid, they are uninsured, they do not have access to health, they do not prepare their pension and, of course, they do not even have the opportunity to write in the Artists' Register you made as they are considered employed and therefore do not fill in a condition. Furthermore, Minister, the amendment expressly states that the AIFM has ceased to operate since 2015, when its board of directors resigned, and thus has no management. In your amendment, Minister, which you brought last week to a ratification of a contract with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, it says that Camerata does not have management, and therefore - I am reading from your amendment - there is no longer Camerata. But, Minister, I must inform you that there is not only the over-representation of the artistic director of Ms. George Peter and her musicians, not only over the years has Camerata been in existence with her appearances in Greece and abroad, but also as a house - an orchestra of Megaron, invited to the Athens Festival and the National Theatre, as well as having carried out excellent recordings. You know, after all, I imagine better than I did that just last year he participated in your project "All Greece has a culture". Madam Minister, in order not to eat the rest of the honourable Member's time, I ask you directly: First, does the Ministry's leadership intend, namely, to do the things I have been working on, and I have forgotten to say that since 2020 there has been a final decision of Greek justice and that you have to do it, and yet you have not been doing it for a year? Do you intend, at last, to pay the wages and social security contributions to workers in line with the judgment of the Court of Justice? And secondly, how does an orchestra explain not to work when it was only a year ago included in your ministry's events? I will also complement, Minister, if you will allow me, that I am not being micro-political in terms of my DNA and I am not treating myself in any folklore, but I have spoken to people who are great musicians of great importance. I had the luck of my father serving as Director of the National Lyrical Tent and then Vice President for four years, and I know very well what a musician means to Camerata. So I spoke this morning with people who are thirty and thirty-seven years of musicians in Camerata and they told me, Minister - and I say it only to move you and not to move the Greek people to avoid voting - that they have nothing to eat. They told me that their brothers support them, that their children, older ones, or their parents, the younger ones. You're gonna have to do something. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u10	Thank you. The Minister for Culture and Sport will answer Mr Styliani Mendoni.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my answer, I would like to add to what has been said about Tasos Neradzis my personal testimony. I worked with Taso at different times. What I really want to testify is his high morality, his culture, his education, his knowledge of cultural issues, his kindness and how beloved and respected he was from all sides, not just from the New Democracy. I really feel the need to add it and say, "He should be well-traveled where he is going." Mr. MEP, as you know, the musical and educational organization of Greece, which has the planning and organization of artistic and educational events of the band Camerata - Orchestra of the musical friends in Greece and abroad, was established by Article 8 of Law 2273/1994. According to the same provision, the founding law, i.e. the agency enjoys economic and administrative self-sufficiency, operates in accordance with the principles of the private economy and is not subject to State control of feasibility but only to control of the legality of the management of State aid. The Music and Educational Agency was regularly sponsored by the Ministry of Culture by the beginning of 2015, when by decision of the Government SYRIZA the payment of a grant was interrupted. In addition, the stability of the period 2015-2019 has had a significant impact on the growth of the financial, administrative and legal problems of the organisation and therefore of Cameroon. This frustration made it more difficult to resolve the organisation's issues, as alternatives that existed some years ago no longer exist. We have therefore worked out a final solution to the issue, primarily with a view to finding the best solution for the organization's resolution. In this context, the Convention between the Greek State and the Association for Friends of Music was ratified by the House, which decided the solution and the liquidation of the Music and Educational Organization and explicitly anticipated the phase of the liquidation, the lack of which made it typically impossible to dismantle the organization. The purpose of the contract, which was ratified by the provision we have said, is to permanently regulate a period of years, i.e. lack of administration, which led to the closure of the Agency in April 2015, when, as you said, the last board of directors resigned. Despite the efforts made, it has not since been possible to define a new administration because, in particular, the Agency's accumulated problems and the difficulty of finding people who would like to participate in the administration. In addition, Article 99 of Law 4812 definitively resolves the question of employment of the Agency's staff, which has been pending since 2015. And it seems to me that you have not referred to the rules provided for in Article 99, which says that the staff of the organization, both the musicians and the administrative staff, are transferred to the bodies supervised by the Ministry of Culture and Sport which are equivalent, namely organisations - private-law legal entities. I think that solves their bio-reporting problems from now on. The provision occupies all staff of the musical organization that are 16 persons starting on 1 January 2014, i.e. in the period prior to the termination of the Agency’s contracts. Of the sixteen employees, ten are musicians and six administrations. I repeat, they are transferred to other legal persons. I would also like to inform you that not everyone has put an end to legal proceedings and, of course, not all workers have a judicial decision to make. As far as the payment of accrued and insurance contributions is concerned, I would inform you that the obligation is burdening the agency, not the Ministry of Culture. In the case at hand, the agency was not present at all or asked for the assistance of the Ministry, so that it was tried in absentia. In any event, the question of the payment of accrued and insurance contributions by virtue of final judicial decisions to those workers who have final judicial decisions will be settled in the context of the clearance of the institution on the basis of the rules to be applied by the clearer. To answer your second question now, I would like to inform you that the fact that the agency had ceased operating since 2015 means practically that it had no administration, had offices closed, did not fulfil its obligations and did not have any kind of revenue. In addition, the payroll of undismissed personnel was also suspended. Some of Camerata's artists continued their artistic activity, participating in various concerts with the permission of the Association of "Friends of Music" without any involvement or assistance of the Agency. In this form, the musicians of Camerata participated in the events of the "All Greece a culture". It's not that simple, it's an organization, Camerata, it's public. To conclude, I would like to point out that, with the solution that we have chosen, not only is a problem of years being dealt with, but also a request to meet the employment needs of workers in the Agency as a result of the operator's solution and its position in the clearing system is met. It can therefore be seen that the Ministry of Culture has intervened actively with the sole aim of resolving the Agency's issues and restoring the workers who are restored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Gregoriadis, three minutes for you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, I sincerely tell you this from my heart, I hoped you would reply to me as Minister of Culture and not as Minister of National Economy or - apologise that I would say so raw - as another Minister of "Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A.". All your answers - and it is not random, and I tell you by hand in the heart - were about the economic part of the case, as the Minister of Culture of our country does not realize that the economy can be the first for the starving Kamerata musicians, but in fact it is the last thing we are discussing. Look what you said to me not much or much. You told me that I failed to mention the fact that you 'did' them, that is to say that you found them a similar post, a similar payroll. It's always an economic thing. Camerata, Minister, where you set them up will cease to exist tomorrow morning, yes or no? In other words, with your regulation, the tombstone of Cameron we knew, we loved and honored Greece and abroad, and it is certain that it will never exist again. The fact that the eight remaining musicians - those are the ones who have exercised the courts and have been justified by Greek justice - continue to work alone, in my humble opinion, is the Cameroon who exists and is alive. In your opinion, as you represent "Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A.", I repeat, it obviously does not exist because it has no revenue, since it is not an economic size or because it does not meet the economic requirements. However, Camerata is much more than that. Madam Minister, in our view, the devil in your amendment is hiding in Article 3. What's Article 3, my Minister? It is this which refers to the responsibility of the clearer - because we have been clearing in operation, a very original procedure for an artistic orchestra - and the governing AIFMs, and it stipulates that the lawful representatives and members of the AIFM during the period before April 2015 are not responsible for the Agency's debts to artists, public or insurance funds, nor is it responsible for the acts punished and the criminality of acts is eliminated and any criminal prosecution is stopped. I ask you directly, Minister: SYRIZA or Samaras - I don't know which one or two of them I don't want to know - has put this infamous administration which has given up and left Camerata in her luck, without even justifying her resignation. The truth is, Camerata didn't stop working. Right? So are you interfering with justice with this amendment and what are you doing? As this amendment has been voted on you go beyond justice, while the case is going on in justice. You also mention in your amendment that the orchestra is not working from 2015 onwards. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So I say to you that it is obvious that it works as you called it yourself in "All Greece a Culture" last year. I also think that you do not answer me why you refuse to apply the judgment and finally pay off the people who have been justified in the courts of Greece. You will give me more time, Mr President, because I want to say one more thing to the Minister. You know, Minister, these people are in sorrow and anger. You treat them like a bankrupt anonymous company. You tell them, in other words, that you are a problem for the state, because you cannot be profitable - I do not know exactly what you might think about that - and I therefore solve the problem on the basis of how to eliminate the financial problem from the state, how to reduce the financial damage. But you are, Mrs Mendoni, Minister for Culture. Leave that to Mr. Stakoura. Your purpose is to raise the state in culture and art. Camerata's disappearance does exactly the opposite. Thank you for your tolerance and forgiveness, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u14	Please, what do you say? Mrs Mendoni has the floor for three minutes for her denology. But don't get away with me again in six minutes, please. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Papoutsis, they are starving on the one hand, but you are disturbed that they are settled in other private law-abiding legal entities. You obviously did not realize that Camerata was a very important orchestra - I said it at some point that it is a brand - which, after the liquidation, we will re-activate. But the liquidation has to be done. And you probably don't realize that the Ministry of Culture can be a Ministry of Culture, but it's not dissatisfied. He has to obey their laws of state. It is obliged to take account of all financial data and, above all, cannot be dissatisfied by paying or not paying employees. It is obliged as the Ministry of Culture to follow rules. Kamerata, therefore - and this is why I referred to the founding law - is directly dependent and linked to the Greek Music and Educational Organization and not directly to the public. This creates obligations of the agency, Cameron, the public. So everyone in his role. It is precisely because, for us since August 2019, the resolution of the Cameroon issue has been a priority, so we have reached the amendment that we proposed and voted on. And I assure you that it could not be done differently if we consider the grim situation within the body described as characteristic in the minutes of the meeting of the Management Board on 30-4-2015. These are public documents. You can get them to read them. It was not at that time very honouring, nor so beautiful the image and the atmosphere. That's why they all gave up. In particular at that time, the payment to the organization of the second instalment of the regular grant of the Ministry was pending, as well as the payment of sums due by public and private bodies arising from the participation of Camerata in events. As a result, the Agency’s fund did not have cash assets so that it could not cover the monthly cost of payroll, the insurance and tax obligations of the body and the debts to suppliers and extraordinary musicians. This situation has been shaped despite the efforts of the management board at the time to prevent the closure of the agency. It was a period when the leadership of the Ministry of Culture while it was fully aware of the problems, the then Deputy Minister of Culture with the Management Board never agreed to meet an acceptable solution. The lack of response from the Ministry of Culture raised the problems, and finally led to the resignation of the board of directors in April 2015. In early August 2019, the appointment of new members to the Management Board was considered, in order to make another effort to resolve the issues of the Agency. That is why we have asked the Association for Friends of Music with my document to indicate advisers. However, none of the consultants agreed to enter the board, nor any other member, precisely because there was a definite situation in the Agency. Then there was nothing we could do but what we did. As provided for in Articles 98 and 99 of Law 4812, the question of the resolution of the Music and Educational Organization is resolved by its solution and its liquidation and, above all, the question of rehabilitation not only of the eight musicians, but of the sixteen workers who - as I said - will be employed in other legal persons. In addition, I am coming back and telling you that court rulings concern first of all the Music and Educational Organisation. From there on - as you know very well - the administration of final ministerial decisions is obliged to comply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, too. Have a good day to both of you. I have an announcement to this House. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: "Follow it from 24-06-2021 of the Amendment Agreement on Provisions of the Concession Agreement for the Project "Study, Construction, Financing, Operation, Conservation and Exploration of the Automotive of Central Greece (E65)" ratified by Law 3597/2007 (A'168), as amended: 1) by the 28-11-2013 Amendment Agreement on Provisions of the Concession Convention" ratified by the second sentence of Article 2 n. 4219/2013 ‘Modification of the Agreements amending the concessions of major road projects and regulating related issues’ (A269), 2) by the 19-12-2013: ‘Agreement amending the Provisions of Amendment to the Concession Agreement’ ratified by Article 44 of Law No.4354/2015 ‘Management of non-performing loans, wage arrangements and other urgent provisions implementing the Agreement on budgetary objectives and structural reforms’ (A'176) and 3) by 11-12-2018 ‘Agreement amending the Concession Convention’ ratified by Article 1 of Law No. 4586/2018 (A'217).’ We move on to the third with number 910/29-6-2021, a topical question from the first cycle of MP B2' West Athens, Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy on the subject: "Thesprotia seafront: apart from the port facilities, the beaches are also sold". Mr Arseni, good evening and good week, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u17	Good evening, Mr President, thank you very much. Minister, this is a shocking matter. Unfortunately, the publicity lights have not been turned there. But for anyone who learns that along with the port of Igoumenitsa you are about to sell almost all the beaches of Thesprotia, it is something unthinkable. We've gone to a new level of dismantling public property. Here you do not only sell a ready port, the western gate of Greece along with Patras, the western gate of Ennatia Road, where all the necessary investments have been made, you now sell the beaches from Syvota to the Albanian border. Selling two fishing shelters from fishing grounds, where fishermen have nowhere else to take their shelter. It's incomprehensible. In fact, it will not be the new owner of the port, it will be the new feudal master, who will control the fate of the place. You're selling, of course, the main road of Igoumenitsa and so much. It's incomprehensible. You have committed yourself since February 2020 that all of what is called land area will be returned to society. So far, however, nothing has been done in this direction. They are now reacting to the New Democracy officials themselves in Thesprotia, who have long believed your words and now see that they are exposed and that the entire county is driven for sale after all. All the beaches! You told them a moment ago that the issue would probably be resolved and that the respective committee on port privatisation will decide this week. I want you to be clear. Don't you know what the committee will decide? Secondly, how, while you're in the second phase of the competition, will you change the terms of the competition without canceling it? These beaches and the main road of Igoumenitsa were in the first phase of the competition. You were saying that you were talking about the contest. Do you promise to cancel the contest? Do you commit to truly rendering its beaches, its place, its land? You are also suddenly renamed fishing shelters to tourists and unleash the fishermen who will have no place to beam their boats. Tell us: Do you commit to stopping the divestment of fishing shelters? They're not marinas, they're the places where the fishermen are begging their asses. They have nowhere else to put them on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u18	The Minister for Maritime Affairs and the Island Policy will answer Mr. Ioannis Placiotakis. Mr. Ioannis Paciotakis, good evening and good week. You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let me express my deepest sympathy for the death of former Minister Tasos Neradzis, a politician with an ethos, a founding strain of the New Democracy, who has served consistently, but also determination and party and parliamentaryism. It was a politician whose first priority was always the citizen and the implementation of specific policies. My warmest condolences to his family. His memory is eternity. Now, on the issues raised by my colleague, first of all, I would like to thank him, because I am again given the opportunity to address the Greek Parliament on a very important issue of geopolitical, geostrategic and economic value not only for our country, but especially for the local economies and societies. I am referring to the use of the port of Igoumenitsa. An international competition is already in progress and we've been in phase two. The first phase involved nine investment schemes, in the second seven, which demonstrates the correctness of the government's choice of policy to make use of the regional ports in the country, since the very large participation of foreign and domestic investment schemes shows that the development of the regional ports in the country can contribute to the maximum possible development of our national economy and of local societies. Recently, I visited Igoumenitsa for the second time - after all, I had committed myself to this - in order to continue the constructive dialogue with the institutions, as well as with the local authorities, as well as with the Port Authority Igoumenitsa. Mr Colleague, the port of Igoumenitsa will soon play a leading role in the new transport map in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean and, of course, a very important role and revenue will, beyond our national economy and the local society and economy. Here I have the opportunity to make it clear once again that under no circumstances are we talking about selling the port of Igoumenitsa. To clarify the concepts, we are talking about long-term leases for specific investments and, of course, of revenues for the state budget. So the government is making use of the port of Igoumenitsa and because we are in the second phase, I promised that they will be attributed to the local society and the northern part of the port of Igoumenitsa, and, of course, the region of Drepan, since I had stated from the outset that land which is not connected with port activities or the provision of port services will be excluded from the concession procedure. Both of these areas will therefore be excluded from the concession procedure and, in the same way, certain parts of the land area will be excluded in the sayada, Plataria and Syvota shelters. When is all this going to happen? All this will be officially reflected before the binding tenders are submitted. This is a process which cannot be solved within a few days. It takes time. But the important thing is that we are moving forward. And we move on, serving the goal of developing the port of Igoumenitsa and ensuring the best for the city and the region. Now, with regard to the fishing shelters for which you have asked me, the Igoumenitsa Port Authority, taking into account the need to ensure the style and dual purpose of the shelters, has, on the one hand, contributed to the decision to transform the existing port of Syvota, to the shelter of tourist boats, the commitment to ensure alternatives to the service of professional fishing vessels - and, on the other, to include the Plataria and Sayada Refugees in the environmental study, the maintenance and continued service of the existing number of professional fishermen. There is therefore no question of continuing to berth and service to professional fishermen in the regions concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Minister, Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I wonder first of all why you made a commitment in February 2020 to exempt the land area, i.e. the beaches of the county, from the sale or concession, as it was for too many decades, from the port of Igoumenitsa, since it has no difference. Do you know why it doesn't make any difference? Because these usually go after and are constantly renewed. It's the same as the sale. But in any case, let us accept that privatisation has little difference in the concession. This difference exists for some future generations. I'm actually coming. You committed yourself in February 2020. Why has your commitment not been implemented so far? And what's it gonna change this week? We are listening to your retreat in the plenary session. However, local society is constantly listening to this commitment and sees the competition going ahead, sees to be cleared who are the seven "seven suitors" who have made a proposal and participated in a competition on the basis of this terrestrial zone, as well as the huge benefit of having and taking advantage of the beaches of a prefecture on the central road of the capital and having all the economic benefits. But here I see that once again you are confusing the concepts. You are talking about geopolitical and geostrategic importance. Whose? Selling a port of ours has a great geopolitical and geostrategic significance for Greece. I mean, really, we've brought the top down! With that logic and selling the Acropolis, it certainly has a huge geostrategic significance, as well as selling the whole cities has a huge geostrategic significance, but not for us, how much more so when you're happy that large foreign groups will be involved. Now you're talking about revenue. Here, of course, we must also look at the history and experience of SYRIZA, where, selling the port of Thessaloniki took this really important national resource for the country, that is, an important port of entry has always taken 231 million euros. In future, with various public revenues, it will reach $1 billion. But the money he took in his pocket was 231 million euros. Others are revenues for use. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As for the port of Piraeus, it took 368m euros again in 2016 for 67%. For such "papers" you sell the public property, the development tools that this place has to design the next day. Don't say it's in the public interest. Here we have interest services. Greece and the public interest and residents of this place, obviously anything but serviced by these plans. Please, I would like you to be clear about how the conditions of the competition will change, when you expressly mention all these beaches and the main road to the conditions of the competition. What's the procedure? Because so far, it seems your commitment is inappropriate. Of course, dismantle the contest itself and start from the beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr Arsenis. Here you go, Mr. Placiotakis, you have three minutes for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u23	Look, I will overlook the ideological and political issue that concerns the development of the country's public infrastructure, but I want to make it clear once again. Mr. Colleague, we're talking about long-term leases. We're not talking about selling, no matter how much for a sale. Therefore, the proposed investor will, in essence, proceed to a long-term lease. However, it will take on the commitment for a certain period of time and for specific investments, and obviously the public funds will have revenues from all of them. At the end of the concession, if the proposed investor wishes to remain, a new tender should obviously be made. So we're talking again about State budget revenue. All the investments made during the concession are the property of the Greek State. We're talking about every investor who's gonna invest in the ports. The same goes for our airports. Has it not improved the level of service of Greek citizens and visitors of the country? Has our tourist product not been upgraded? The same thing we want to do in our ports is to use the comparative advantages of each port separately. There is a great deal of interest and now there are four international competitions under way. The three have passed in the second phase - Alexandroupolis, Kavala and Igoumenitsa - and the use of the port of Heraklion is in the first phase. So, Mr President, we are making use of the country's public infrastructure and the comparative advantages of each port separately. The port of Igoumenitsa has a huge geopolitical and geostrategic value. The Egnatia Street and the Ionian Street are finished. Of course, there are further possibilities for developing this port. Now I'm going to answer you because there has been no performance of these sections. The northern part of the land area of the port of Igoumenitsa was mentioned and why the region of Drepanos has not yet been attributed to the local society. In addition to the decision of the previous administration of the Igoumenitsa Port Authority, the legalisation procedures and the final performance of the land in the local society had not proceeded. This process is now being implemented and is independent of the time frames of the competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Minister. Have a good time, Mr. Placiotakis. Mr. Arsenis remains because his question is his. Therefore, the sixth question will now be discussed under number 917/2-7-2021 in the second cycle of MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Direct correction of school writings which disseminate malicious and unscientific speech". Here, Mr Arsenis, you have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on Thursday, June 24th, the examinations of the 'Healthy' course for professional high school were carried out. In the school manual, in section 4.5.4. "Socially Transmitted Diseases" there is a claim that one of the factors in their spread is the spread of homosexuality. You have already received letters from the Polychrome School, a recognised body to combat discrimination in education, as well as from the "Theoretical Voice", an organisation active in the field of sexual health and especially in the examination and prevention of HIV and sexually transmitted infections. You have also received letters to which you have never replied. The notion that these infections - because they are no longer mentioned anywhere - have ended this terminology for too many decades - are transported, spread through homosexuality, it is obviously something deeply homophobic and racist and I ask you to change the writing immediately. It would surprise me not to agree. The very concept of spreading homosexuality is like homosexuality being a disease that spreads. This is all deeply darkening and anachronistic. There's nowhere else else in the world. I don't even want to insult another country, like us. We currently have both the World Health Organisation and the European Center for Disease Prevention and the relevant American Agency, which have changed these definitions for decades and have declassified sexual contacts between people of the same sex as a factor in spreading sexually transmitted infections. I asked you when I tabled the question in good time, to delete this matter, to take all the students and students to the maximum extent, because it is really one to spread racism and homophobia through the writings, and it is another to have children memorize them and to judge whether they will get into the university by whether they have properly memorized racism. That is unacceptable. I have invited you to do so as you have been called upon to do so by the organizations which are struggling for this issue. Please very much, the least I want is your commitment that this paragraph will immediately be deleted from the introductory lesson.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr Arsenis. The State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs will answer Mr. MacRey. Mrs. Macrie, good evening, good week. You have three minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much. You will allow me before I answer to join my condolences with Mr Plakatakis. I was lucky to be with Neradzis, the president, the minister, in the parliamentary seats. I met him less than a month ago and was given the opportunity to repeat my appreciation. I would also like to say publicly that he was a parliamentary man who served both the country and the party of important positions of responsibility with adequacy and honesty. Good heavens. Colleague, I would like to tell you in answer to your question that the Ministry of Education and Religion makes deep, important reforms in education and from September of next school year our school will further enhance skills culture and equal opportunities and life prospects. The new school becomes more autonomous and our teachers will take more creative initiatives, and will also lead to alternative educational routes. These changes in education have, moreover, been a pre-election commitment from the New Democracy, particularly with regard to the programme of sexual education and the Prime Minister himself has announced his extension to all schools since next school year. One of the radical reforms is the skill lab. It was piloted in the 2020-2021 school year in two hundred eighteen units - kindergartens, primary schools, high school schools - and now they're being extended to all types of school units, as I told you, kindergartens, primary schools and high school. The main objective is to strengthen the skills of pupils and pupils through themes, resulting from global indicators of sustainable development: environment, living, security, civil society, modern technology and entrepreneurship. The theme "Evi - Life Courses" includes sexual education, which through educational programmes and skill workshops will enable pupils and students to learn from the early school years the principles of mutual respect, social responsibility, human rights, respect for diversity. For the realisation of skill workshops, training material will be used from the specially designed digital platform of the Institute for Education Policy. Also important are the already implemented educational programmes and actions of our Ministry, which are carried out in collaboration with scientific, medical organisations and the National Kapodistrian University of Athens. This year, with a new memorandum of cooperation, the thematic unity of sexual education has been added and actions such as "I am learning about my body", "My rights" and other related actions are planned. Also, our Ministry supports and strengthens the modules for organic and psychosocial issues, which concern teachers and students of the territory, to prevent phenomena for children and adolescents, through a holistic approach to teen health issues, in order to highlight their social dimension and ways of dealing with them. We consider it important and it is to ensure two thousand eight hundred social workers and psychologists in our schools and the training of teachers. Thousands of new organic positions of psychologists and social workers are being created immediately and a new innovative program "Inclusive Sexual Education" was added in primary, secondary, special and professional schools. The "Inclusive Sexual Education" programme is a specialised part of the wider theme of human rights in the school environment. I should also like to refer to the Minister's communications on the setting up of a committee at the Institute for Educational Policy with a view to creating pedagogical activities from kindergarten to high school on the promotion of the rights of the sexual dignity of children, the protection of sexual freedom and the prevention of racial violence, as well as on neglect and abuse. The IPA is also responsible for the content of the school books and is already ensuring that they are upgraded and rewritten. I will insist on my dentistry, so that I do not abuse time any more. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Macrie. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for three minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, to understand, you are not apologising as a ministry for students to be examined, to memorize and to write that sexually transmitted infections - why is 'noises' wrong - being promoted, spread through the dissemination of homosexuality and not asking for apologies for putting it on the subject of university exams? Will this timely question be over, and will the Ministry of Education not apologise? Is that possible? And you're telling me you're bringing sexual discipline as an answer? What sexual discipline? What will it contain, such things? Don't you commit there's no such thing as this paragraph next year to students? Will these things continue to be disseminated? How does a child feel, a homosexual, a lesbian when he reads this book? What image does he have for himself? Homosexuality, contrary to the way described in the school manual - and I read to you the letters you already have in your hands - is not a disease, it is not passed on and it is not due to infectious factors and, above all, it is not part of a fashion to spread. The main factor affecting the transmission of sexually transmitted diseases is not about sexual orientation but about unsafe practices in sex and the absence of widespread and documented information about the population around them. The claim that homosexuality is a prejudicial factor for sexually transmitted infections fails on the one hand to protect the wider population as it suggests that these diseases discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation and therefore concern less the wider population, creating an illusion of security and complacentness. I read you from the letters you have already received, the extracts. In other words, you do not only apologise for the fact that school writings are at the moment promoting homophobia and discrimination, because you have raised these issues to examine, memorize them and how they memorize discrimination was judged to be in the university, but at the same time, you are creating a problem for the very dissemination of sexually transmitted infections, as you create reassurance for all other students and students by saying, "Don't worry, if you are not homosexuals at risk" as if we are living in another century, as if we don't know that it has anything to do with the gender of the sex partner. It has to do with one single thing: precautionary measures and how one is protected, changing partners, regardless of sex. I call on the government to come to our century, in our time, and to stop schoolchildren from spreading darkness.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u30	Thank you. Mrs. Macrie, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. I, Mr Colleagues, nevertheless ask you to come to the sphere of responsibility, and I say to you that it is not at all certain that with these ex ante-built answers to things that I did not say you were helping the case. Absolutely sure you're not helping, I guess you're doing some damage. So I say that our Ministry, the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, provides students and students with skills that will make them equal, responsible, free and decent citizens of the world. And emphasis is placed on sexual education, and this aims to cultivate knowledge from a young age of skills and critical thought on gender issues, rights, mental and physical health, safety, protection and respect for sexual dignity and equality. The Institute for Educational Policy is responsible and responsible for determining the subject matter and the educational material at each school age. In accordance with the existing institutional framework referred to in Article 53 of Law 4547/2018 and Article 2(1) to (3) of Law 3966/2011, this is a final, scientific and research body supported by the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs in matters relating to primary and secondary education, giving an opinion on the relevant question of the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, or suggesting on its own initiative to the Minister on matters relating to primary and secondary education programmes for school books and other teaching forms and digital media. Already our Ministry has been reforming four hundred fifty-three detailed programmes, one hundred-three-three-three of the general education that has been updated since September in schools and thirty-three programmes of vocational education which are expected to be completed by 2022. The aim is to modernise their content, but also their philosophy, because some of them have not been reformed over the past twenty years. Under Sub-projects 3 and 5 of NSRF 2014-2020 for the upgrading of the content of studies in secondary vocational education and the post-training year - a class of apprenticeships undergoing, there is provision for a radical review, upgrading and updating of the content of the curricula of all secondary vocational education subjects, both of general education courses and of courses, of areas and of specialties. Already the school manuals of the health, welfare and well-being of the professional high-schools of a new cognitive health care area, including the school manual of the Healthcare course, will be upgraded and rewritten and ready in 2022. Finally, on the matter of the committee and the examinations, it is the Committee of Inquiry responsibility and coordination, as well as the general supervision of the examinations, the selection and formulation of the subjects, their mission to the Committee of Inquiry and the provision of clarifications and directives both to the examination centres and to the rating centres and to the general public, that is to say, the responsibility and responsibility for taking any other measures necessary to ensure the proper conduct of the procedures and the smooth conduct of the examinations. As far as the issue you are pointing out, you know - and I am sure you know it, or at least you should know it, after you ask the question - that in the last page of the Directives to the applicants it is mentioned in item 4 that any scientifically substantiated answer is acceptable and is well classified. What does that mean? That when a question was raised to candidates concerning factors affecting the frequency of sexually transmitted diseases, it required that the ten options for the answer be selected from the seven candidates. Furthermore, the question did not require growth, but merely a reference to factors. Therefore, candidates were not required to take a good degree of reference to those who were questioned by the same factors, if they had a different viewpoint, but even if a candidate had developed his answer, criticizing the reports that are considered - and, if you want my personal opinion - scientifically outdated, this does not affect the assessment of the answer, according to the clear commitment of the directives to the applicants that any scientifically documented response is acceptable. In any case, in order not to be far away, the Committee of Inquiry is the Central Committee of Examinations rather than the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much. Have a good day to both of you. There are no debates as a result of Members' blockade, the seventh question with number 925-7-2021, topical question by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Charalambos (Chari) Mamulakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "What will be the type of exploitation of the area of the "Nikos KAZANTZAKIS" airport in Heraklion?As well as the second question with number 909/28-6-2021, the first question of Parliament's B2' Western Sector of Athens of Change Movement Konstantinas (Nanthi) Giannakopoulou to the Minister of Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Security of compliance with the planned timetables for the decommissioning of the airlines of High Volunteers and High Voltage Antiques in the Municipality of Athens". We shall now proceed to the debate on the next topical and urgent question. You, Mr. Triantafylides, start warming! It is the tenth under No 928/7-2021 topical question by MP Florina of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theophistis (Petis) Perkas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Financing for transition to lignite areas and allocation of resources". Mrs. Perka, good evening! Good week! You have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u33	Good evening, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, as stated in the memorandum of understanding of basic principles, the content paper of the 'Full Transfer' programme, the overall budget of the programme amounts to EUR 1.617.716.955 billion. This budget consists of the EUR 755 million share of the Fair Transfer Fund, additional resources from the European Regional Development Fund, the ERDF, the European Social Fund and a predetermined percentage of 15% of national cofinancing. This budget of the 'Financial Development Transfer' programme appears to be inadequate, taking into account the fact that these funds are required to cover not only the urgent and growing need for the transition of the western Macedonian lignite regions - Florina, Kozani, i.e. - and Megalopolis, but also the transition to the islands of North, South Aegean and Crete. At the same time, no programming or plan has been announced for the other two pillars of the equitable transition mechanism. Recently, we have seen an agreement with SDR, which is the one pillar, but we have no clarification. Greece ranks ninth in the allocation of funds, despite the speed of forward and violent liberation. For example, we say that Bulgaria and Romania, which are countries that are not even committed to a defoliation timetable, only from the Fair Transit Fund, without the ERDF and the European Social Fund, receive 1.2 billion and 2 billion respectively, compared with the 755 million that our country is taking. Also, 65 million euros are available that have been raised by the auctioning of carbon dioxide emissions allowances for the period 2018-2020. Of course, you haven't made any use of these yet. So, on this basis, we ask you: does the Government intend to increase the resources of the 'Great Development Goal 2021-2027' programme, since, in accordance with the regulation governing the Funds, the additional resources of the ERDF and the European Social Fund to be channelled for these purposes can be three times more than the resources of the Fair Transfer Fund? Of course, what will be the distribution of resources between the three territorial plans for a fair transition? Secondly, does the government intend to reinstate the share channelled to the lignite areas in 6%, which was in 2018 and 2019, which Mr Hatzidakis took to 1% by a sudden decision before the Ministry said goodbye? How does the government intend to move overall in the policy of sharing public revenues from the auctioning of carbon dioxide rights? We especially care about the part that is being channelled into the lignite regions. In the end, does it intend to consolidate the share of the lignite regions to 6%, a decision that will provide an absolutely necessary complement to the so far very limited resources for a fair transition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mrs. Perka. The Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy Mr George Amyras will answer. Mr. Amyras, good evening! Good week! You have three minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning to all colleagues and Mrs Perka, of course, who asks for interesting things. I will start by saying that in the era of the climate crisis and the biodiversity crisis, the Mitsotakis Government launched a innovative and ambitious plan for Europe and Greece, that is to say, it brought all the timescales for the ligniteification and decarbonisation of the economy far ahead and so we are discussing and urging the timeline that by 2023 all lignite power plants other than 'Ptolemaida 5' will have been withdrawn, which will also stop its operation by 2028. This demonstrates that the government and the country are setting as the top priority the issues of climate change and that it is moving towards deprivation by a plan, with fast, very careful steps. Thus, the two objectives of the draft fair development transition plan are, to regenerate local economies and to ensure the existing ones and to create new jobs. I'm going very specifically to your questions. Following the draft ‘Full Development Goal’ and in the implementation of the proposal for a regulation on the Fair Transition Fund, as finalised by the European Parliament and the Council on 24 June 2021, the territorial plans for a fair transition have been drawn up to identify the territories affected to a greater extent. This will focus on supporting and describing the actions to be undertaken to achieve the European Union's energy and climate target for 2030 and, of course, on the major objective of the climate neutral European economy by 2050. The second project, on which degreasing is moving, is of course related to the 'Fair Development Goal' programme, which is a distinct programme within the NSRP of the new programming period 2021-2027. In determining and drawing up these plans, account was taken of the recognition of social, economic and spatial impacts on the transition of a zero-pollutant economy. Of course, there has been a series of studies on which the plan for our transition is based, the national plan, which are studies carried out by the Commission and by the government by recognised international bodies and agencies. Territorial plans indicate means of synergies and complementarity with the other pillars you mentioned, and with the equitable transition mechanism, in order to alleviate the effects of the transition. The InvestEU programme shall be managed centrally by the European Commission and not by shared management by the Member States. With regard to the third pillar of the equitable transition mechanism, it is also managed centrally by the European Commission without any intervention by any Member State in the process of selecting and financing projects. However, a Member State is given the opportunity to have privileged access to a specific amount of resources, which is equal to 31-12-2025. On this basis the Memorandum of Cooperation and Understanding was signed by the Minister of Environment and Energy Costa Skreka and President of the European Investment Bank Werner Hoyer. According to this agreement they signed - and this is a new regional funding initiative - the European Investment Bank will support investment in sustainable energy, transport, social housing, skills development and the environment throughout western Macedonia and Megalopolis. I continue, Mr President, because I am still in the middle of the answers. She raised a lot of issues. As regards the resources under the 'Green Development Goal' programme, the national shares of these resources have been calculated by applying five specific criteria. Firstly, the emissions of industrial installations, secondly, employment in the mining industry, thirdly, employment in industry, fourthly, peat production and fifthly, oil shale production. They have, therefore, been weighed on the basis of national prosperity, and priority has been given to the lignite and coal areas, as they face the greatest challenge. It also provides for the allocation of any additional resources through the eco-taxation mechanism, according to a specific methodology based on a change in greenhouse gas emissions, i.e. we have a link between the national energy and climate plan and the achievement of those objectives. The possibility of transferring funds from the European Regional Development Fund and the European Social Fund to the Fair Transition Fund was proposed by the Government Committee of the ‘Full Development Goal’ project to the relevant Ministry of Development and Investment, which approved the transfer of additional resources, significantly strengthening the budget of the new programme ‘Full Development Goal 2021-2027’. I'll stop here. I have the numbers to give you, Mrs. Perka. I have the paintings. I will submit them electronically, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u36	Mrs. Perka, some questions have now been raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u37	The truth is, I expected even greater ambiguity in the answer. I'm sorry, Mr. Amyras, but lately I've been constantly asking very targeted questions and I'm not getting any answers. I'm starting to say about the climate crisis and the liberation. That's about how everybody's answering me. Let me tell you we're with you. Alexis Tsipras signed the green deal. From there, however, we are in ambiguity. It's been two years. The plan, the master plan, for a fair transition found vague remarks. They're here and we're looking at them, and they're even more vague. They do not follow the Rules of Procedure of the Fair Transfer Fund. Instead of commissioning at the county level, three territorialities have become. The others are north, south Aegean and Crete together, one. I do not know how they will be approved and how they will go through the European Commission. I'm looking forward to it. There's a rough job going on. It's mostly not very specific. Time's running out. Yes, degreasing is front-line, but it requires very serious planning that does not exist. I'm sorry to tell you. At the moment, local communities are counting three and a half thousand lost jobs without seeing something that will give jobs. We're talking about land. Since you've opened the subject, it's an opportunity to talk about it. Spatial planning has not progressed. These infamous investments in territorial plans for a strange reason are missing, while they were in the original plan, on the master plan. It's all vague. Investments there, investments there. Even if they do, the people who lose their jobs today or lose it last year will not have a job until they do and there is no provision. And we say start the restoration work. Who? The territory. What territory? The spatial planning has not gone any further and we expect the real PPC contract to come to the House to see what are the lands, which are the defoliation zones that will be restored, etc. So we are right to protest and fight with local communities. As far as neutrality and green transition are concerned, we have placed ourselves. Unfortunately, however, we see that your government is promoting natural gas projects which are fossil gas. He's got teletherings closed like Florinna and Megalopolis to put gas. These are works that have a expiry date again. He's not going to carbonisation. It is not enough to defoliate. That's all we're talking about. Now, as far as the other pillars are concerned, I have asked Mr. Dogsky for the Recovery Fund. In the Recovery Fund, we saw only 242 million euros for land of sixty thousand acres from the two hundred and fifty thousand total. With this vagueness. Now we see the Territorial and I return to my questions. I wanted you to tell me at least 'we'll see and look at it.' How is the allocation of resources going to be carried out? How many additional resources did the government ask for and why did it not take them? I would like to point out here that the government has lost in negotiating with Europe. Whilst it was the first deflation of the resources and their allocation that did not take into account the imperial degreasement, that is, the space was not taken into account, but the dependence of the lignite communities on lignite has not been taken into account, resulting in a fall in GDP, etc. I would therefore like if you could at least give me a horizon when we will have a plan for certain investments. I would remind you that the equitable transition regulation stipulates that territorial should contain not only all of what I have told you but also what the investor will do. There's none of this. I am also insisting on funding. Will more resources come from the two funds? The Fair Transfer Fund has lost it from what it seems. We have taken the least resources from all countries. What investments will they go to and how will they be shared? Also, Mr. Amyras, the 6% resource is very serious. Will you bring it back? We've made promises. We wait, but we're still at 1%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Perka. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor for three minutes. Please don't get out again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u39	Of course, Mr President. Thank you. Mrs Perkas, first of all we are always specific with figures and indeed economics. I would therefore refer you to the European Union's 'EU coal regulations' report, which was based on data from EUROSTAT and the European Union's Research Centre. According to the European report - I imagine you will be aware of it - Greece is the first to differ greatly from per capita aid from the Fair Transfer per inhabitant, with EUR 887 per inhabitant, when the European average is only EUR 365. The second highest price has been achieved by the Czech Republic with EUR 641 per inhabitant. And because you mentioned Bulgaria and Romania it is much, much below us. Romania at EUR 517 per capita, while Bulgaria at EUR 373. I am, of course, keeping what you said today - and last week when we were here and said to you by Mr Scully on a timely question again on lignite issues and a fair transition from the Recovery Fund - that you are supporting the transition and demilitarisation of the country. In recent years, of course, I remember in this Chamber that whenever the New Democracy put forward proposals for degreasing, you were too cautious as a party. And I will tell you in practice what you have done or if you want what you have not done. In relation to lignite, as it says in the simple daily language, the Government and the Ministry of the Environment and Energy are in consultation with operators, residents and groups so that soon there will be a decision to increase the percentage that the degreased areas are entitled to, through the allocation of greenhouse gas emissions revenues from the present 1%. We are progressing very specifically. We have found the funding, we have in mind clearly every aspect of people's lives in the former lignite regions, which will be found in a new reality. I'd say you need to do your self-criticism too. I would remind you that when SYRIZA as a government was responsible for this large part of the economy and environmental protection, he had done almost nothing. Last year, in 2020, the allocation of funds, of EUR 100 million from lignite to the Regional Units of Kozani, Florina and Arcadia for the period 2015-2018, went ahead. In other words, we, New Democracy, have made the allocation of resources for the years that you should have shown interest in the people of this change, as you say. You only spent four and a half years in 2014 and even, by the end of 2019, they had not been absorbed. As we also recognise that the draft of a fair transition, which you have now told me, had been presented with SYRIZA. But it was a report of ideas. He had no evaluation, no cost-benefit study, no timetable for specific objectives, as he should have had an operational plan, and indeed such a great social and economic importance. However, we in the New Democracy Government are going through detailed timetables, with binding conditions, always looking at the need for a fair transition - what the term - the people of western Macedonia, Arcadia, from the economy of lignite and coal to a new green economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Amyras. Have a good day to both of you. We continue with the fourth with number 919/2-7-2021 topical question of the second-cycle question of SYRIZA's MP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "In any case, the Ministry of Health has no control mechanisms in the private sector." Mr. Triantafylide, good evening, good week. Two minutes to start, and I remind you that you're flying in a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, my timely question concerns a tragic event that shocked not only Thessaloniki, but the whole country. Obviously, it is neither political nor opposition, nor with this provision of assistance to the work of the state, I come to the national Parliament to check on you, in the sense of maximising the intervention role of the state, which must control who they are, who offer health services. I am referring also to this, and you understand that, in the memory of the wronged fourteen-year-old Gog and the drama experienced by her family. The death of the fourteen-year-old Gogo from the Renaissance of Thessaloniki took place after an operation of a gastric ring in a private clinic. Before going on to my specific question, I must clarify that I am in control of you, but I do not wish to detain the area of private health. There are private doctors, who are diamonds and many of us have trusted our health in their hands and confessedly with excellent results. We are talking about those specific cases and specific incidents. So I come to the tragic death of the fourteen-year-old who showed up - and it would be good if Mrs Zeta Makri were here from the Ministry of Education - the stereotypes that dominate Greek society with the victims of children with unnecessary weights who are faced with intra-school violence, bulling, because of obesity. I am not going to dwell so thinly on this issue, which must concern us all, in particular, and together with direct policies concerning both the state and society. I will stand by the ruthless questions, which arise on account of the death of Gogo, a fourteen-year-old child, and concern the protection of the supreme good of life and health, which is the responsibility of the Greek state to take care as required by the Constitution. What emerges, Minister, from relevant publications in the printed and electronic press, which I submit in the minutes is that the private doctor who took over the gastric ring was sentenced by an irrevocable decision of the Triumphant Court of Appeal of Thessaloniki from 2012 to a three-year imprisonment sentence for manslaughter by negligence of a 40-year-old woman at the time, while according to the family of 14-year-old Gogos there are complaints about other incidents concerning the same private doctor. I would like to go before I go ahead and in order not to abuse the kindness of my dear Vice-President and fellow Apostle Abela, to ask directly: How does the Ministry of Health protect the Greek citizen, who makes use of health services in the private sector from corresponding cases of doctors who have been sentenced irrevocably for medical errors? Was the Ministry of Health checked by the Medical Association of Thessaloniki, who should then disciplinaryly check the sentenced doctor? I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I have to report to you: First, from the thetoc.gr website, which revealed that the doctor, who operated the priest's fourteen-year-old daughter, had irrevocably condemned the death of a forty-nine-year-old. Secondly, from the "Pandora's Box": "New developments since the death of the fourteen year old. The doctor who handled her is also accused of the death of a 24-year-old.’ I'll mention it in my denture. Thirdly, from Thessaloniki's Thesstoday.gr website Thesstoday.gr: "The irrevocable sentence of death for a forty-nine year-old had the doctor, who operated the wronged Gogo". And, fourthly, from "THEA": "That's how my daughter died." The priest speaks of the tragic death of the fourteen-year-old Gog.” Minister, I am also addressing the politician, but I am also addressing the parent. They had the kindness and kindness of her parents wronged Gogo to contact me. I really want with this awareness of the parent who loses his child, who we simply accept as a fact, understand and maximize the responsibility of the state and its control role. I would therefore urge you, in this context, to forget the political - partisan and to listen to specific things about how you think so that there will not be other wronged souls in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr Triantafylides. The Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis, will respond. Mr. Contozamani, good evening, good week, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Triantafylides, clearly the support of all of us is incomplete towards the parents and the family of fourteen years old. You have raised many issues, which I think are not exhausted by the answer to the timely question you have put. You raised school bullying issues, private-sector issues. You said there were doctors. We are aware of the view of your extrapolation to the private sector and, of course, they also open up other issues relating to doctors' assessment, Mr President. It is an opportunity to discuss these at some point, but let us, as you have said, stay in the management of this incident. You ask your question how the Ministry of Health protects the Greek citizen. Let me say here that because there is continuity in public administration and in the state the Ministry of Health protects the Greek citizen as it does all the years and as I imagine it would be in your case when you were a government. There are laws which must be observed and, of course, there is justice, which in any case takes action and make decisions. And, of course, after the petitions submitted by parents to the relevant agency, we will expect legal proceedings to clarify whether and what offences are being filed in this particular case. The State and the Government each time have a duty to monitor and reassess the procedures and mechanisms by which the various controls are carried out. As to how the Ministry of Health protects the Greek citizen, who makes use of health services in the private sector from the corresponding cases of doctors, who have been sentenced irrevocably for medical errors to tell you, firstly, that medical action involves the risk of either furniture or of medical error, regardless of whether it takes place in the public or private sector and while the complications are related to the uncertain factor of the human organisation or the outcome of a pathological situation, the medical error has to be done with the deviation from the diligence measure, which the doctor of the respective specialty must demonstrate and may be acquainted with or not. Secondly, in relation to doctors in the private health sector who are responsible, not for criminal, administrative, disciplinary or disciplinary matters, the medical associations through their disciplinary bodies and the state must in any case have formulated a strict framework for more effective control and disciplinary action in cases where it is incompatible with the dignity of the medical profession, medical ethics, science and ethics. Another control mechanism, which the state has at its disposal is the National Transparency Authority, the creation of the current government, which, in the context of its responsibilities, has issued most findings, while the investigation of many other cases is under way. Very important in relation to your question, it is also the possibility that has been recognised on the disciplinary board of the relevant medical club to recommend to the Panhellenic Medical Association with a reasoned decision and after hearing the doctor involved, the temporary suspension of the medical profession where there is a risk that a convicted medical practitioner may commit new offences there is a risk and a need to protect public health and there is a risk to patients. It goes without saying, of course, that both the introduction of the temporary suspension measure and its imposition should be sufficient, concrete and substantiated, to provide adequate grounds. This is about the framework. I think we are here, since this framework needs to be updated or modernised, to reach a consensus - I think we are all on the same side with regard to such events, we all want medical action to be carried out safely and, of course, for the benefit of patients - to see signs of improvement. With regard to the second part of your question as to whether the Medical Association of Thessaloniki has been checked by the Ministry of Health, which should, in turn, disciplinaryly check the doomed doctor, I would like to note the following according to the information we have received. No complaints have been filed about this doctor at the Medical Association of Thessaloniki, except for one in 2006. Not even for the 14-year-old incident, there's no record of a complaint at the Thessaloniki Medical Association. Furthermore, there has not yet been any relevant information from the judicial or public prosecutors to the Medical Association of Thessaloniki following the reference documents submitted by the parents in order to exercise its statutory powers. The judgment of the Tribunal of Thessaloniki in 2012 did not come to the attention of the Medical Association of Thessaloniki, even though it is a duty of the competent prosecutor to immediately announce the President of the Medical Association concerned and, indeed, with recent legislative intervention, the obligation of the criminal courts to immediately send to legal persons governed by public law, such as medical clubs, copies of the irrevocable judgments concerning health professionals has been remedied. Let me say - and because of your question, you have referred in the past to this incident - it has been noted that, in other cases, it has also been noted that in other cases, convictions, sentences or expropriatory decisions and some criminal prosecutions or complaints against doctors have not been announced to the Thessaloniki Medical Association and a meeting of the President of the Medical Association has been pursued with the President of the Tripartite Council of Thessaloniki on this matter. The Thessaloniki Medical Association had also been asked in writing to eliminate these gaps in information. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that the state as a whole has control mechanisms, as are people who are working for them, so that our fellow citizens can in any case have the security that their laws and procedures are respected in full. I am sure, I repeat, that these mechanisms are sufficient as well as the framework, which governs them, and if we need to modernise this institutional framework, of course we are here. Let justice do its job, and as far as the health ministry's powers are concerned, it will do what legislation does, of course. Let me stress that we have due confidence in medical clubs and we will deplete all rigour and disciplinary measures in cases where illegality and other discrepancies are observed from laws and regulations. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Triantafylides, for you three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, it really took nine minutes, the Minister to tell us in essence that the prosecutor from the Court of Justice of Thessaloniki did not contact the medical club because he did not announce the decision to him. Is that correct, Minister? Is that what you said? Minister, is that what you said? Because I wasn't listening to you. So, nine years have the irrevocable judicial decision of 2012 and today, 10 July 2021, not been informed by the competent prosecutor of this irrevocable judgment? And so all those eight years, can the doctor in question operate? Look, Minister. We're on the same side. We have increased responsibility and sensitivity as representatives of the world, claiming an answer. I'm clear. Mr. Contozamani, look at me, please. Did this doctor have to operate after the irrevocable court ruling? Yes or no? I expect the Minister of Health to tell me, yes, he had the possibility or not. What you are saying since 2012, the competent prosecutor did not inform the Medical Association of Thessaloniki after nine years to do the right thing as his statute, the Code of Conduct, etc., at first he had to anger all the private doctors who did the right, serious and well-built work, and that is why their citizens respect them, appreciate them and choose them. It's incomprehensible! Well, they didn't hear the decision. The papers didn't see them online? And it's not one. There are three cases along with the case of the wronged Gospel. It's the one of 2012, which I mentioned through the post. The second is 2017 with the same doctor. And there's a case with the same doctor in 2021. The first case is irrevocable conviction, an appeal order. In the second in 2017 I think the charge is from a village of Serres. If I had the papers in front of me, I'd tell you. I already gave it to the Minutes. And the third one is from the Thessaloniki Seminar. And I have told you from the start, neither opposition nor opposition to the opposition. Because I am talking about 2012, 2017 and I do not care who was government and what he did and who was Minister. I don't care at all. I'm interested if the state has control mechanisms. You make me yell and I don't want to. Today out of respect for the memory of the fourteen-year-old kid, I didn't want to scream. But what you're telling us is shocking. I do not know, my fellow journalists in the Chamber of Parliamentary editors if they heard what you said, that since 2012 the competent prosecutor had not informed nine years after the Thessaloniki Medical Association about the irrevocable judicial decision. Does that cover you? And I would like to conclude by saying that I want a clear answer from the Minister for Health of the Hellenic Republic.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u46	Yeah, hang up because three times you said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u47	This particular one - who may be specific, I do not care, nor do I know him, nor do I target him or anything - could he carry out medical operations? There's probably others. I say this and point it out that in a modern, serious, European state there are institutions and, in particular, protocols to ensure the health of citizens. We're not going to the unknown boat of hope, I'm going to the O.R., and I don't know if I'm going out! And that's why the state cares, whether with New Democracy or with SYRIZA, either with KKE M-L or any party, I don't care. I am interested in the souls of children and people who go in there, who should not be in a status quo where everything gets lost in bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr. Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u49	I'm closing because there's an avalanche of complaints on the occasion of this incident. It is the death of the twenty-four-four year-old from Kavala four years ago with the trial set in autumn. And you, as Minister of Health, checked the Thessaloniki Medical Association? I don't know who he is. Is this Mr. Heptactyl President? I think it was Mr. Heptactyl's old age. Say, "Come here, lads, fellow doctors. Nine years have passed, did you read it in the press and one was not aspired to say something?" Is this an isolated incident? There are two, three? Here we honor Greek doctors because they are known all over the world and all over the planet for their goodness. Honestly, I'm incompetent. So we're living for luck? What exactly is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Triantafylides. Mr. Kontozamanis has the floor for three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. You have raised a question which is reasonable. If a person who has been sentenced to an irrevocable decision can today continue to practice the profession of doctor and operate. Here we go to issues of both legal science and medicine, and medical mistakes relate to both legal science and medicine. Because in the context of the administrative and disciplinary procedure some incidents are rarely evaluated as medical negligence and usually patients - or related - who have suffered a medical error are forced to take legal action and are justified after lengthy and traumatic for the validity of the doctors involved, controversy. In a different world, it may sometime be seeking the medical world to take over the question of evaluating medical errors to curb the increase in mistakes observed. Allow me to use the German model here, where independent committees have been set up with multidisciplinary composition, in which patients who consider that they have suffered a medical error, and which make an initial assessment of the data which is set in mind and give their opinions on it, and this positive opinion is a prerequisite for recourse to the courts. With regard to the relevant framework, in our country the condemnation of manslaughter and negligence harm is not provided for as a reason for the withdrawal of the licence to pursue a profession and, accordingly, for the exercise of criminal prosecutions, it does not result in a suspension of the certificate or the exercise of the profession. It could, of course, lead to the suspension of the exercise by the Panhellenic Medical Association if there was a risk to patients. And a conviction for a medical error would not suffice without any other evidence. Therefore, even if a medical association wanted to activate this possibility, it should be very seriously documented. This is about the institutional framework. And because you referred to the court's decision, that is the information we have. I told you that - and because of your question - we are dealing with this issue and in any case the state will take all the measures provided for it by the institutional framework in order to ensure that the case is checked and that all disciplinary procedures are carried out properly. I was clear and I think I have explained them completely, Mr Triantafylides. It is not the space and time to play with our dead fellow citizens' souls and to try to exploit such issues. I told you what has happened, what the institutional framework provides and what the state has done for its part.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u53	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Triantafylides, I wish you well. We move on to the first with No 915/2-7-2021 topical question of the first cycle of the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Tryphoon Alexiadis to the Minister of Health on the subject: "The Government is delaying the operation of the new Centre for Health of Keratini and does not make permanent recruitments of medical and nursing personnel". Mr. Alexiadis, good week. You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin I would like to express my warmest condolences as a Member of the Piraeus II for the loss of the former MP and former Minister and executive of the Parliament for many years, in too many places, Tasu Neradzi, a man who honoured the neighborhoods of Piraeus, grew up in these areas and if someone asked me to say a few words about it, I would say political dignity. He taught all of us political dignity! I come to the delight of explaining very briefly the timely question that I have tabled to you, Minister. We have tabled the timely question to your Ministry, first of all for reasons of parliamentary order, because we have tabled a written question of twenty-nine Members of the SYRIZA, but also a MEP for this matter and you have denounced the Ministry of Health to reply to us. I leave this to the citizens' crisis and to the crisis of what the SYRIZA accused of for similar practices. Because if you look at the statistics of the House you will see what Alexiadis did when he had the corresponding position. In your timely question, we call on you to commit, not with communication fireworks and with general vagueness, that something will be done once. We invite you to commit to something specific, i.e. when we will have the immediate 24-hour operation of the Keratini Health Center, directed with permanently necessary medical and nursing personnel. We do not claim, Minister, as SYRIZA the paternity and completion of the project. It's been starting a long time ago. We want to publicly congratulate the Municipality of Keratini once again and the Mayor of Christos Brittakos who a very good post on 7 July fully illustrates the project's course. And we also want to congratulate the municipality because it succeeded in a very difficult period, with a contract signed in December 2018 to deliver the project. I would remind you that you yourself appeared in the area and took pictures of these issues and told the world that the next period of time would have solved the issue and that we would not have any problems and that the project would have been fully operational by the end of May. Unfortunately, you didn't manage to do that. I will develop in the rest of my time, because I want to respect the Bureau, the other arguments. What we are asking you to do is to say a specific date that will operate at the Health Centre with permanent staff and not with staff who will be transferred from other health structures either to Piraeus or to the rest of the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Alexiadis. The Deputy Minister for Health will answer Mr Vassilis Kontozamanis. Here, Mr. Contozamani, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Alexiadis, the timely question is being discussed a few days after the Prime Minister of the country opened the Keratini Health Center and we are faithful to the commitments we made both to the Mayor of Keratini and to the citizens of the region in order to function. And we said that what we are inaugurating is fully staffed to be immediately attributed to the citizens and to provide health services. And the Keratini Health Center will really be a jewel for both the area and the National Health System and a model of operation of primary health care. After all, you are aware of the fact that, in order to have permanent positions, we have to have an agency to which we are moving, because we have waited for some institutional intervention so that the Ministry's body could also be completed. That is why we have served the Centre for the Health of Keracini with subsidiary staff and, given our desire to operate as soon as possible, we have taken concrete action. The number of organic positions is sixteen. They're serving nine right now. The doctors are subsidiary doctors and were recruited at the Drapetsona Health Center in order to meet the needs of the Keracini Health Centre because I told you it was a structure that had not yet started to function. Of the fifty-five places of nurses and other staff, the twenty-seven are already serving and a small number of them are again employees of the Drapetson Health Center. They were transferred to the Centre for Health of Keratini in order to transfer their knowledge, experience and know-how so that it can work directly, quickly, safely and adequately. We also have eleven appointments of ESS doctors. The staff were trained by experienced nurses from hospitals from the 2nd HSY, both in the operating procedures of the centre and in the use of modern medical equipment. I say that because it makes sense for a health centre not to be able to start its operation immediately, and that one is 24 hours a day. I'll answer you for that, too. The address needs to be tested, the centre must be flowed, and so on. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] The Computer Management of the 2nd Health Region executed and continues to perform tests of the information system of the Health Center and makes the necessary adjustments. The technical service shall also complete the checks on the automated system of operating control of electromechanical installations. The initial supply of the Health Center to personal protective equipment, consumables and medical tools has been carried out by the stocks of the 2nd Health Area and there is a specific operating schedule, beyond the final settlement of the sites and the start of the daily operation that is already in place since 7.30 ́ -22.30 ́ out of the weekend. There are currently no appointments from 8.00 ́ - 22.00 ́, while the telephone line is available to close an appointment in the next few weeks. The planning is that from 5 July to 23 July there will be a pilot operation of the Health Center with appointments. In the week of 26 to 30 July, we will have an evaluation of the results of this pilot operation and structural measures, and action will also be taken to interconnect with the HICP system, with a view to joining the IRR system of the Keratsini Health Centre, which we hope will take on 1 August. On 1 September we schedule the extension of operation and weekends from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. and from 1 October the extension of working hours on weekends until 22.00 p.m. In addition, with the allocation of nine hundred and ten posts of various branches and specialties to the institutions of the Ministry of Health and the completion of the recruitment procedure of four thousand nursing staff with the approval of the health centre, we will be given the possibility, in a very short time, of paying these posts to put the Keratini Health Centre in 24 hours' notice. And I will repeat, once again, that the operation of the health centre is proof that the government remains faithful to its commitments to an integrated primary health care system and, of course, that everything that works will also be staffed to serve the people of this region, but also the wider area, because it is a large area. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for the answer. I think she will stay in parliamentary time as well. Your answer is that something will once happen, without any specific date! Tell us a certain date! In five years will you finish the organization? In two months will you finish the organization? Tell us a date! Your financial staff falls out on all the forecasts. Can't the Department of Health make a provision? On June 14th, you made an amazing decision for the Centre for Health of Keratini to cover Mr. Mitsotakis' communication effort to appear in the second Piraeus. And he did a really good golf because he had to bring in huge police forces so he could get in and do what he did inside the health center. I'll say right after that. In this decision about the health center...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u60	Today it's...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u61	I'll tell you right away. Don't be in a hurry. As far as the issue of the health center is concerned, you have brought staff from all the health structures of Piraeus, from Agios Jerome, from Janios, from Peristeri, even from Aegina. From Crete or Arcadia you haven't brought yet, but I imagine you'll be there in the next stage. But the amazing thing is that you did all this to get Mr. Mitsotakis to pretend to be inaugurated and to say that it is also fully staffed. But from what you and from what you have said, it's not staffed. You have weakened other health structures to bring there and you say it is fully staffed. And the amazing thing is something that we didn't pull from a hidden camera, but it's in a video of the Athenian News Agency. You take the Prime Minister there, in a health structure, in a critical period, he sees a nurse dressed not with her ritual and dressing in a walk or evening out, but with work clothes and asking the amazing question: “How did you get here?” That's what she tells her. That is, because he has come to an understanding of what has been done and that they will post the video, the Prime Minister of the country asks a heroic nurse: "And how did you get here?" I understand the needs of your propaganda, but this is an area where the propaganda is not going through. Piraeus II and the neighborhoods gave her the first power to SYRIZA and they will increase its rates. And it will not change this with communication visits and fireworks like what you yourself did - because there is a full file and we will keep showing these issues up - when in April you came and predicted that at the end of May the recruitment procedures have already started. I therefore call on you to give a clear answer to the citizens of Piraeus II, to the many people who face terrible pollution problems, problems at other levels, but also to the issues of protecting their health. You should give a specific date for when the Keracini Health Center will be fully staffed with permanent staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Mr Alexiadis, for keeping time. Here, Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry. Please just don't get out again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u63	No, I won't, Mr. President. Thank you. Mr Alexiadis, I mentioned specific timelines. Because we said about the end of May, and after twenty-eight days the operation of the Keratini Health Center began, I don't think this is a breach of our commitment to the operation. If it were fully staffed, we would operate it on a 24-hour basis. I told you what the timetable is and what steps we have taken to ensure that it is fully operational and 24/7. Right now, it's started and it's working. I said it myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u64	So the Minister lied?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u65	Look, we could now, for communication reasons, launch and cut ribbons and take pictures. We went there. It's starting to work. In fact, as I said, the day-to-day operation of the health centre has begun since 28 June. I told you that people were transferred from other structures in order for there to be staff training, for there to be a transfer of knowledge, know-how. You don't open the door to a health center and it starts operation the next day. We need a plan, a plan and, of course, a specific timetable, which I have also developed. I don't think I said anything less or more. There were some institutional interventions that had to be done so that we could move to the health centre. Do you know how many health centers in the country they don't have an organization? Is that what we're going to do now, the Keratini Health Center, which we're going to do? In any case, I have fully developed the timetable which will lead us to the full development of the functions of the health centre and, of course, to its invention. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mr Minister, for keeping time. Mr. Alexiadis, good luck all the time. We will now discuss the third with number 914/1-7-2021 a topical question for the second cycle of MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Conversion of the University General Hospital of ATTITORI" to a public-private-private-public-private-private-private-private partnership". Here, Mr Arsenis, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the subject of my question is a subject that we have discussed on several occasions and is also the first questions I had put to you in 2019. It is the issue of PPP privatisation of hospital structures but, as we see, not just of them. I am referring to the statements and yours in February 2020, that the partnerships were related to infrastructure, but are now expanding to services and management, and that everything is for consideration, but also to the statements by Mr Kikilias in January 2020 that the "Attica" Hospital will be a hospital - pilot for upgrading and through PPP financing tools. Now the workers are coming and they are denouncing a new agency that puts precisely these bases for PPPs. First of all, I would like you to tell us whether the complaints of the Workers' Union of Attica Hospital are valid. What exactly is it that you're planning for Atticon? You are trying to change nature and character in one of the largest hospitals not only of the country, but also of the Balkans. Also, what functions of public hospitals do you intend to assign to individuals via PPPs or other tools and how is public health guaranteed when we start having many speed hospitals? You are included in "Greece 2.0" "Attikon", "Asclipio", "Evangelism", "Agia Sophia", five hospitals. We are impressed by this figure for this reason: On the basis of Mr. Dimitris Gardellis' interview at 'Common' on 28 June 2021, after a meeting with the commander of 'Asclipio', he told them that the five hospitals mentioned will compete with each other on the basis of their completeness of the files to find funding from European funds. As completeness of the files he described the balance sheets and profitability as if it were a business of each hospital. Specifically, he said that with regard to the case of Voula - but I understand that it is also for other hospitals - he should guarantee the health of the wealthy citizens who will inhabit, by increasing the population of the region, in the enclosed city of Greek, by linking all movements with the renewal of the coastal front and the Latsis investment in the Greek. The resources to be found will be essentially private funds which will enter the hospital in the form of PPPs and other resources. I would really like you to describe your plans, what you have been crystallizing for a year and a half with the experience of the pandemic, which has shown us how far the private sector has not accepted anything in terms of COVID and all that has been given to the public. Are you planning on privatising this public?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr Arsenis. The Deputy Minister for Health will answer Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Mr. Contozamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arsenis, first of all, the title of your question is wrong. You say 'Athens' to PPP'. It's not turning a hospital into an PPP. I have spoken on many occasions from this Step on public-private partnerships, which are a financial instrument to do works and facilitate access by our fellow citizens to cost-free health services. I don't think that's privatization. I've said it many times, but you insist and keep your ears shut. And something else bothers you, that we are constantly highlighting the public health system, as was the case during the pandemic that we supported the public health system and we continue to do so with specific projects, not with words, and that is why we have the results that we are seeing. And allow me to give some clarification on the Attica Hospital. It's not a question of changing the legal entity of the hospital. He is a legal person incorporated in the National Health System, he is a emblematic hospital for the health system, has his own budget, VAT, seal, and is subject to the control and supervision of the administration of the 2nd Health Region. A working group on the preparation of a draft new organisation has been set up. This is not privatization. We must finally see how Atticon and the other hospitals will go from now on. New technologies, new services, new skills. Organisations should be changed to hospitals. Under no circumstances does the modification of the organisation mean any change in the legal status and nature of the hospital. I've never heard of that before. You make reference to your question to other hospitals, which we are indeed well placed in our proposals to the Recovery Fund. And it's not just that, it's the whole structure of the country. Because let me say that this programme refers to the renovation and modernisation of hospitals and infrastructures throughout Greece. Is that privatization? It refers to the digital transformation of services. Is that privatization? It refers to contagious centers, such as the Radiotherapy Center at the Hospital of Salvation and a new center in Thessaloniki at the "Papanikolaou" Hospital for the housing of cellular and genetic treatment laboratories. Is it privatization of the health system when you build new structures and services for citizens? Refers to the Recovery Fund in a home care and care system. Is that privatization? And to all hospitals, and to the "Asclipio" of Voula you say, "Save", and so on. Nor is it privatization when the private sector comes and complements the public sector, as has now been done in the management of the pandemic. The public-private partnerships, I repeat, first and foremost we have said that in the run-up to the elections, were in our programme. That's why people voted for us, and that's what they expect to see from us, change the health system. And we said we would use this tool, it's a financial instrument. You where you see the word 'private', 'r', you think it's a privatization of the health sector. That's not true. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, PPPs are worse than privatisation. Let us be a little clear. Not only does the PPPs even have a price, but it undertakes a service to do a project, the private one, for which we will pay it for the use of this project, the public, otherwise, for too many years. It is a tax that lasts much longer. I would not say that it costs more than privatization, because in terms of both you and you for privatisations anyway, and of the nature of privatisations, it is so inconsistent with the public interest that it imposes such costs that there is no comparison, because both are harmful to the public interest. But yes, the PPPs are worse. Now, I would like you to clarify what this Agency provides for. Does it provide that Atticon will be run by a group of universities under the legislation of the School of Medicine? Is there such provision in the regulation, that it will be converted into an autonomous unit with its own budget, funds and revenue, so that it will gradually be cut off from state funding? And you know, I ask them because the hospitals you report will be privatized by PPP, a private person will manage them and pay him taxes. That's privatization. It will belong to the state, but in practice we will pay every time we use this service. I return to the interview by Mr. Gardellis that the Commander of the "Scientific" Voula said of the five hospitals that they will compete with each other on the basis of the completeness of their files to find funding from European funds. I repeat. As completeness of files he described their balance sheets and profitability, as if they were private enterprises. So I would like to know exactly what you imagine about these five hospitals, what is the nature of the new organism that will appear to be entering profitability criteria, there will be a competition for who gets the resources a hospital will in practice and another will not succeed and the citizens will pay the "bride". So is there a relative quality of public health services, and it depends where you live, and what hospital happened to you? And I would also like a comment on what we requested before, how in the Healthy and Microbiology course in the PESAL students were asked to examine and repeat and write about sexually transmitted diseases, as the book says, that their dissemination factors are homosexuality. As the Minister for Health, I think you should state something about this if you think it is an information which is accurate and needs to be disseminated and examined by our students on this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr Arseni. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arseni, I will answer the first part because you are out of question as to the second part. Ask a question, let's get up to date, let's answer you. You started your question by saying that we convert "Attica" to PPP, which cannot be converted into PPPs, and now you come and tell us in your denture that it is a hospital for academics, how much it collects, what it will do etc. I repeat: Attica is one of the country's largest and flagrant hospitals, and of course, there is also financial management in the hospital. It is a public body, according to the public accounting standards. He has revenue, he has expenses. It's not speculative, but there's financial management. And that is what we do and upgrade the services we offer and the tools we use with the PPPs, so that we can offer more and better costs-free services for the citizen. This is and must be a public health system. You know very well - if you don't know, I'm telling you - that for years it didn't work a magnetic tombographer in the hospital. What's going on? Citizens were discharged, going to the other diagnostic centers, doing the MRI, coming back. Is that what we want? To trouble the citizen and the citizen putting money out of his pocket? Uh, no, that's gonna stop. The citizen must have access to the health system and must not be paid out of his pocket too far or not. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Minister. Let's go to the 11th No. 923/5-7-2021 topical question of the second question of the MP Argolis of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "It is not possible for the pediatric section of the Argos Hospital." Mr. Poula, good evening, good week. You have the floor for two minutes for your startup.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, many times we have pointed out to you here, both in this House and outside, that there is a great shortage of staff, which is afflicting both the national health system in the large urban centres and the region. Your government to date is facing this whole situation with great care, so that the gaps in hospitals remain, that there are even greater problems in the service of citizens. And of what I have mentioned lately, we can see that a plan for the closure of health units is also being presented. It is the well-known 'hand' that these people who took us out of the pandemic will receive. Regarding Argolida, the problem with regard to the functioning of the Paediatric Department of the Argolian Hospital due to a lack of a pediatrician. In this time period at the Hospital of Argos there is only one curator second pediatrician, which makes it very difficult to run, but also the program of newspapers from the Paediatric Department. And while this whole situation knew her, you knew her, what were you doing? On 9-6-2021 you are making an invitation to private doctors. This invitation concerns the recruitment of two private pediatric specialists, a pediatrician of Pathology specialists, two private specialists of general medical specialists, with a full-time or part-time publication, with participation in the programme of newspapers in accordance with the instructions given by the hospital medical service. The reason for this call is that there are special public health needs due to the dispersion of the coronary, COVID -19 and that the final date of the applications was 18 June. Since then, more than a month has passed. We also have no information about what has happened so far with regard to the outcome of the invitation and the lack of medical staff and especially the children's children's suffering, insecurity, but also those who visit the county, reduces the quality of the services provided. So I just ask you this: How do you intend to deal with the problem of the functioning of the Argon Hospital's Paediatric Unit and how many private doctors and what specialities have they applied for inviting the Argos Hospital and how many of them have been hired? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, too. The Deputy Minister for Health will answer Mr Vassilis Kontozamanis. Mr. Contozamani, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Poula, you first came before us in the area of the Argolida area, because you spoke of a hospital in the middle - between the two - and you come and tell us at least that we are going to this solution. Do we close the other two hospitals? Because you're telling us that, because we're talking about a new national health system, we're going to close it all down. We have said that we need to change the National Health System, modernise it and improve it. Don't talk about closures. She's a General Hospital of Argolida with two units. You know that very well and indeed, there is a problem at the Paediatric Department. Besides, the data from one moment to another is changing. It is typical of the Paediatrics, for six months ago they served three specialists in paediatrics. In February 2021, a pediatrician resigned ten days ago, another pediatrician began putting his licenses, for he was approaching the retirement limit. Unfortunately - we have said so - this is a daily phenomenon. But we are taking action. I will repeat that we have a two and a half thousand permanent posts of medical staff in two years' time, and in the next few days we shall proceed to the notice of at least five hundred additional posts of medical staff, permanent posts. And we are giving solutions, as has recently been done with the legislative initiative that we have taken on anesthetics, which is the beginning of a series of corresponding interventions that will be going too far to deal with issues as well with other skills which have staff problems. Unfortunately, so far, the invitation you are referring to has been brutal and we are, of course, looking at solutions to solve the problem. However, the problem will first be solved within the hospital itself. Two buildings, one hospital. So far, the health region, in order to deal with the issues, has moved from a neighbouring health centre to a doctor and has asked for the approval of an adjunct doctor and certainly also invited private doctors who have unfortunately become fruitless to date. There is also the notice for permanent posts in medical staff. Why am I talking about a building, a hospital, two buildings? Because you know very well - you are also a doctor, you are also from the area - that Nafplio has two doctors, who do external medical services. Therefore, there is the possibility of all serving and serving the needs of the hospital. We recognise the need to strengthen the paediatric section and make sure that we move on to all the actions that will lead to the reintroduction of the section's function at the beginning of 2021. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, too. Mr. Poula, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u79	Minister, thank you for the answer, but you should know that you opened the ace of Halos. From tomorrow no one in Argolida will be calm, I tell you. With what you said to us a little earlier in general about how the situation will be shaped and with the contour of the pediatrics you gave, we understood exactly what would happen. From tomorrow, you will open the ace of Hail in Argolida.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u80	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u81	Look at you: When you have two structures and one of these structures keeps one twelve - thirteen days and the other one is seventeen - eighteen days, there can be no hospital in two buildings, because each structure has different needs. So if you don't have a cardiologist from here, you can't have another unit. These things can't be done. The paediatric clinic should be one, single and on-call 30 days a month. But once the two nursing units are eighteen and twelve, what will happen? Here are the big problems. This problem was addressed by all governments and no one was able to solve it. At the moment, however, to solve it, one is the solution, a new hospital. It's over. That's the solution. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] From there on, as far as pediatrics is concerned - to go to the burning issue we have - you know very well that a pediatrician alone cannot make it. Man is making a great effort. What's the matter? That at the moment, today she's on the watch, there's no pediatrician. The day before yesterday, there was no pediatrician. Complaints grow day after day. People who go there don't find the necessary medical monitoring they need, so they run panic in Athens. You need to see this problem immediately. There are solutions, as long as you take the political cost and implement them. He wants courage, he wants political will. The pediatric department had four doctors. You said it yourself. Now you knew that the director will retire, that curator I was moved from you to the Health Center of Eugenius, so a doctor will stay. What should this man do when he has the maternity clinic in which he should attend the hours of scheduled or extraordinary pregnancy? What's going on in regular clinics? They can't find a doctor. Acknowledgements for participation in sporting events for children hard to get. The vaccinations are left behind. And that's not all that's done. There's a third one last. You build a pediatric clinic that is done with private money. She's ready. It's the second time it's going to be inaugurated. Prepare to open for the second time. That's not all that's done. The management board of the hospital decides to place a supervisor without any object. These are things you need to see. You need to bend on the problem of Argolida and the two nursing units as well as the pediatrics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Poula, you misunderstood what I said. You're saying we're going to open the ace of Hail, etc. It is a single legal person, the General Hospital of Argolida, based in Argos and a decentralised unit in Nafplio. It's a single organism. Five pediatricians were serving in early 2021, three serving at the moment. You said it yourself. There must be a pediatrician who serves 24 hours a day, all the days of the month, the whole area. I don't think we disagree on that. I told you that because the circumstances change - one doctor left and the other one retired - we need to find solutions. We are also working in this direction. You talked about a hospital. It's one now. The organism is one. But we must finally find solutions to serve the world. Do not let half the days of one, half the other, or have no days without specific specialties, and people are afflicted and moved to other hospitals. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u84	The first question will be discussed under number 916/2-7-2021 in the second cycle of SYRIZA MP Laconia - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The need to support Corinthian Grass". You have the floor, Mr Colleague, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. The subject we are debating today concerns thousands of producers and one of the country's most historic products. Specifically, in 2018 statements, it concerns over a hundred forty-four thousand acres and a production of over forty-five thousand tons. It is a product which at the end of the nineteenth century represented 75% of agricultural exports. It's a product that supported thousands of families. It supported the economy of Corinthia, Zakynthos, Messinia, Achaia, Elias. In 2017, recognizing his role and the difficult times he passes, he entered the associated aid. We are therefore reaching the pandemic in which no product less or more has been unaffected. The Corinthian raisin, due to the financial constraints, the restrictions on activities, the reduction of tourism remained unavailable in warehouses. In particular, according to the assessment of the Panayialioli Union, which is the most important cooperative business in the area, thousands of tonnes have been left unavailable in the warehouses at this time and this poses a great risk. The danger is, soon into the new season, despite the damage caused and the heat, that last year's indisposed quantities will lead to a price collapse. That will be disastrous for all the reasons we have just said. Here we should note: the winemaking sector in 2020 was supported either by the wine distillation scheme in the event of a crisis or by green harvest, that is to say, programmes that were not for Corinthian grape producers and businesses. That is why we are asking you today and we are waiting for a clear and clear answer if you intend to proceed to a programme of withdrawal of the unused quantities of grapes from last year's production, so that the warehouses can be cleared to enter the new production, a programme corresponding to the crisis distillation implemented last year in 2020 in the wine sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u86	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u87	Mr Arachovitis, I agree with you that this is an extremely important product with a long history, present and future, I would add. I come to what you said today. I think that you know very well and you should not - especially you who always speak documentarily and together we have good cooperation on agricultural issues - to make specs. You mentioned the fact that Corinthian raisin could enter the crisis distillation programme and withdraw to address the problem now created with the coronary. You are well aware that Corinthian raisin does not belong to the wine sector so that these exceptional measures can be implemented. If you miss the fact that you served in this ministry, I have submitted to you in the Minutes since 2003 Regulation 1308. It belongs to the fruit and vegetables sector. [[At this point, the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Spyridon - Panagiotis (Spilios) Lebanese presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At the same time, another point to consider if you do not remember it is the service document on the non-implementation of stocks of processing enterprises, of these programmes, in the fruit and vegetable sector. [[At this point, the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Spyridon - Panagiotis (Spilios) Lebanese presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So what you're saying doesn't work. Just because the raisin is this very important and historic event, from the very first time I went to the Ministry, I have been in constant contact with all the producers, from all the prefectures that produce raisins and all the associations, as well as the businesses that trade in this raisin. The data we have collected so far - and so we are working to be effective and fair - is that by April 2021 exports were four hundred and ninety thousand pounds. They were both in 2018 and 2019 and 2020, above - below four hundred to five hundred. No disturbance arises at the moment in relation to export prices. I am also presenting these figures to you, to see them and perhaps to work together on how to deal with this issue. [[At this point, the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Spyridon - Panagiotis (Spilios) Lebanese submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] From the information we have received from the Panayialioli Union, as well as from the MELISAGRO company, because we have not been given to the Ministry so that we can go to the next step, despite the fact that we have asked them too many times. As you said before, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs gives the associated money in 2020 for the raisin - and at the same time, it has financed with 2 million 124 000 Panayialio for a project that does for the raisin in Asia. So, in all of this, we're close to them. The proposals you make, unfortunately, cannot be implemented. I am very pleased to invite you to work together and to reassure the representatives to see what we can do that is essential, but also within the framework of justice and law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u88	Thank you. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, the word'specula' did not expect me to hear it, I speak frankly. I didn't expect to hear it, because we're talking about a big problem in the area. We have the information. I don't know who you're talking to, but we're talking to the producers and we're talking to the cooperative organizations, which are not just Panayialion, but it's mostly Panayialion, we know, as you know, no matter what you say, that you have not been delivered with a report, etc., that there is indeed a large stock. But let's get one - one of what you said. You said you couldn't get into a withdrawal program because it's not vintage. That's exactly what I told you, he can't get in, but he can get into a match. Read your question with more attention. I say: 'In a programme similar to that in crisis distillation', precisely because of the exceptional circumstances that exist. You saw that, within the pandemic, tools were created by the European Union, and that the European Union allowed them, which was unthinkable to imagine them under normal conditions. But it was the pandemic that caused the problems. Even a separate measure was created in the Rural Development Programme. Do you consider that it is impossible to establish a new corresponding programme or did you not request it? We also tell you that, in addition to this, the state can function as a buyer of a last resort. In fact, that's not what we're saying now. We call it the program that SYRIZA had submitted "We are standing" since the first wave of the pandemic. Quantities can be allocated to social structures, feeding programmes, technical or co-financed, immigrant programmes, a number of such programmes. So the word'speaker' seems to us to be wrong. Also, let me tell you this. You said about the prices and the information you have. We are telling you again and it is clearly expressed in the question - and I am surprised that your colleagues have not been more concerned with reading the question than with preparing any answers, because first we read the question well and then we prepare an answer - that the price has to do with the new production. The quantity that is bought and is already in storage, whether of cooperative organisations or private individuals, has already been purchased. The danger is in the collapse of the new season and new production. The producer price, in other words, when there are so many stocks in the world, is in danger of collapse. When there are stocks of unsold last year's raisin, what will the price be in the new season? As regards a final point for the support programmes because of the pandemic, I would like to say this: a lot of money was actually given to deal with the consequences of the pandemic, but they were given without any strategy, without any planning and they were fragmentary. This is because all those branches where money was lost had no support in the process, i.e. the downward trend continued and was not interrupted. Let's not put it now, because it's another hour's conversation, if it was enough, if it were targeted, etc. If you want to have such a debate on how the millions that have been spent so far have been spent to support and address the consequences of the pandemic have been spent. We probably need to have the debate so that we don't get back together again, because it seems like the pandemic is not over. And I'm ending up with this. If your answer, Minister, is: 'No, we cannot support', farmers expect a clear answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u90	Please, Mr. Colleague, finish. You've reached four and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u91	I'm done with this. If that was your answer that we cannot find a solution, let us make it clear and let the people who are watching us and waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u92	Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u93	Firstly, we have studied your questions very well. You probably haven't studied the problem very well, and you haven't asked yourself, and you didn't tell us today, because you left this stack in a company and not in others, in a union. Come on, if you want to talk about it and talk about it with those present, as we have done many conferences with these people. Secondly, here you are talking about a commercial strategy and commercial policy, you are not talking about producers. Do you understand that? Maybe you don't understand, so we need to talk about this. Thirdly, in relation to what you said, we are also discussing with the Ministry of Immigration and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Defence and with the Ministry of Civil Protection for the purchase of Greek products and therefore for indirect support from producers affected by COVID, so you are breaking open doors. The fact that COVID does not end to think about it better and that you are all next to us in this attempt to end COVID. As regards the part you are coming back, while you know that my answer is clear and honest, I have given it to the European Union orally to the Commissioner and has rejected it. I will, however, make the request and then write down our question today and when it is rejected from there, because I have already been rejected by man, because I am in constant contact with all the products we work with, with top ice cream and you know very well what I'm doing there, then we will see how you will deal with it in a next question here in Parliament. In this context, I am coming back and say that we are the raisin and all the products we want to support. We have to find the ways, but at the same time we must not be taken away from what some of the blackmails tell us to do. We are here to support producers fairly and effectively. This is the work of our ministry. For businesses and for commercial policies if you do not understand, Mr Arachovitis, there are other ministries that have to provide solutions if there are such problems. I would suggest that you study the data that I have given you and come to you whenever you want to see the entrepreneurs you are talking about at the moment and the Panayialion Union, as well as the other associations with which we have been working thoroughly all this time, to get into the bottom of the problem and see how we will deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u94	We continue with the second with number 913/1-7-2021 topical question of the second question of the Halkidiki MP of the Change Movement Mr.Astalos Pana to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Integration of the green olive of Halkidiki in the exceptional compensation due to frost." Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u95	Minister, this year's production of green olives in Halkidiki prefecture is undoubtedly the worst since 2013, which has been a catastrophic year for olive growers. The reduction in production, according to the latest figures, will be between 60% and 100%. In particular, the ice-cream that affected the cultivation of the green olive of Halkidiki during the period March to April did not allow olive oils to complete their cycle properly. These conditions, as you can imagine, did not allow for the proper fertilisation of olive trees or then their fruitage, as any damage was done at a pre-anthic stage. As is already known, the cost of production of the Halkidiki table olive is estimated at EUR 600 per acre. The costs of the growing year are now unbearable, even taking into account the health crisis, as you can see the financial situation of producers is dramatic. Minister, as the producers of the green olive of Halkidiki face survival problems and there are crops with little or no fruit, which means that they have a minimum and zero income. We are talking about PDO Olive Halkidiki, a national and 100% exportable product grown, produced, processed and standardised exclusively within the limits of the regional unit of Halkidiki. Any other variety of table olives are just Halkidiki type. For these reasons, Minister, I would like to ask you this: Do you intend to recommend positively to the ELGA body to include olive oil in the exceptional compensation for ice-cream, as its inclusion in the CEECs - PSE does not offer direct support to our producers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u96	Thank you for the time, too. Minister, you have the floor. Be there in time, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u97	I was scared, because you were talking about the olive tree all along, but the question is about the frost. I understand all that you said and we have discussed it in this Chamber and you know - at least you have agreed in the past, perhaps not Mr Arachovitis - that we are making every effort to be next to the producers and to strengthen them in this difficult situation. This year, because of climate change, we have dealt with everything. In this context, I think that the state as a whole has stood very well and well with our producers. The same will happen with the frost. I am presenting to the House for you to have the programme that we announced on the Spring 2021 Fugitive. In that context, we describe the concrete steps that we will follow. Within the framework of the provisions of the 'Spring Frozen 2021' programme, in particular Article 2(1)(b), we recommend to the Ministry of Finance precisely the inclusion of all crops affected by this terrible glacier that we lived and were not completely covered by ELGA. [[At this point, the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Spyridon - Panagiotis (Spilios) Lebanese presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So the specific production you are referring to is included in this part. We understand both the reduced flowering and the discoloration of foliage and the defoliation and influence of annual stems, as in other regions. So in spite of the country's difficult budgets, we are just trying to integrate all the crops that have really been affected. That is why ELGA has hired over-estimates, in particular per farming and per region, so that they do not infiltrate diligently and wickedly and with justice, to support all those who have suffered catastrophes and have been affected by the frost, especially when we talk about the 60% disasters that have so far been observed in Halkidiki.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u99	Minister, I am pleased to have you and your thinking to support the crops affected by the frost in the previous period. I also fully understand that budgets in such a treaty are not easy to make such support universal. But I'll talk about the Halkidiki olive. Because you know a few months ago, I was at the same step and we had a commitment from the former Minister for Rural Development Mr. Vorides to support Halkidiki olives then in the koron amplification and, unfortunately, it has not yet been completed. So you understand that we are twice as burdened and there is a great need now for the Halkidiki producers in general to feel that they too are strengthened in such a difficult treaty that they are facing, in a difficult budgetary and economic treaty. That is why the question is not to include in the exceptional compensation for ice-cream in the CEECs - CECs. For this reason, in order to show you the need for the Halkidiki world, the Halkidiki producers, who have been talking to them all this time and have visited their businesses and their units, I now present you with a document of twenty-nine rural olive-growing cooperatives in the Halkidiki Prefecture, with which they are shouting out agony and now presenting the financial problems they face. And I think that your thinking is what will give us and the opportunity to rely on the economy at the moment in Halkidiki where beyond tourism and the agricultural sector are affected. I would therefore like to believe that the timetable you are putting today will in fact include the olive tree in Halkidiki and you will actually give a breath to producers to make this difficult year a really tragic year. That's what we want. We do not want to blame other areas. But we do not like Halkidiki to feel second-class citizens on the agricultural policy side. It's something very important. I know your sensitivity. I am watching you that you have turned all over Greece in order to look closely at the issues that concern the rural world. So you must be serious about this and Halkidiki and its producers must rely on it. That is why we are here, not for communication but for the substance of things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u101	Dear Mr Pana, you have said so too - no one wants to blame Halkidiki. On the contrary. I'll be simple and fast. We're not going with the P.S.A. category. That belongs to the past. We are following other procedures and we are in front of the expectations of the citizens affected by our payments all the time that we have unfortunately been severely affected by climate change, as I have told you. The answer is that our policy is that this part should also be included in the specific rules on frost, which I have tabled to you again, for the sake of time, the roadmap. And in this context, with a rapid pace and with absolute justice as regards who has been affected and who is not, we will also go to Halkidiki to meet the needs that have arisen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u102	The seventh question under No 925/7-2021 will not be discussed as a result of a standstill by the MPs: 'What will be the form of utilization of the area of the "Nikos KAZAKIS" airport in Heraklion Crete?' Also the second question under number 909/28-6-2021 of the First Cycle of MP B2' West Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nandia) Giannakopoulou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: ‘Security of compliance with the planned timetables for the dismantling of high voltage air lines in the Municipality of Aigaleo and their replacement with high voltage underground cables’. And the twelfth will not be discussed after consultation under number 926-7-2021, a topical question by the President of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Recording of the damage caused by high temperatures in agricultural crops and direct support measures for producers'. Here is the thirteenth question under number 929/5-7-2021 from the second question of the second question by the Member of the Elijah Movement of Change, Mr Michael Katrin, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Big and this year's income reduction for the farmers of Elijah". Mr. Katrinis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, as you know, or have been informed - I imagine - there are too many problems faced by the farmers of Elias and not just this year. Apart from the weather phenomena that have caused crop damage - and I refer to the frost in March and April - prices in basic products in the region such as watermelon and potatoes are very low. These products are sold at prices below what they were last year, and I say this because both of them were included - and they were rightly integrated - in the products compensated for by the pandemic. The watermelon is now sold 0.7 minutes, while the early was sold at a lower price of 30% compared to last year. The potato is sold 0.8 minutes, and last year the price ranged from 0.12 minutes to 0,15 minutes, and the reasons are that the markets in the northern countries have not yet been opened, tourism is not going as well as we would have expected on the domestic market, and the focus is late to begin. As far as compensation for last year is concerned, they have not yet been paid, and it is a question of whether there is a clear timetable and when these allowances will be paid, while many producers have been excluded even though they had covered their crops insurance by paying the ELGA because they had not declared these crops to the IACC. On the basis of the medium-term programme, the government has an image and the primary sector has an unprecedented resilience. Totals for 2020-2021 you have predicted 183 million euros. I would remind you that for 2020 the exceptional grant was 150 million, so 33 is for 2021, and it is even obvious that in the medium term, in 2022, a large zero is shown as an exceptional grant for the compensation of the primary sector. Two questions: firstly, whether you will compensate watermelon and potato producers and this year for the high income loss, as I told you before on the basis of the prices that are clearly due to the pandemic which is continuing and secondly, if you have asked the European Commission to continue compensation for this year's pandemic and this year's and will you request aid from the Government, from the Ministry of Finance, in addition to the 33 million that appear here on the basis of the medium term, since the consequences of the pandemic are visible? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u105	Mr Kathrini, we have discussed many times both within Ethiopia with your multiple questions, as well as outside Ethiopia, where thankfully we have a very good cooperation on matters and watermelon and potato, so much as I am concerned that you are bringing me back and you are bringing me back here for these two products, but in any case, I understand your sensitivity for your region and I also understand that you understand the state's response and, in front of that, you are coming to ask me very quickly before we make the next compensation, as we have done so far. In December, if I'm not mistaken, 1 885,000 for the early watermelon and 2,685,000 for the spring potato. On 2 June applications were opened and submitted recently, and within the next summer period the payments will be made for 18.3 million in total, 6.54 in watermelon and 11.9 in the potato. So with regard to this part that we have discussed before and in public we are consistent with what I have told you. In the summer, the payouts will be completed, after cross-checks have been completed by the OPEKEPE and the Ministry of Finance, which I have also told you many times did its own double checks. With the same sense of sensitivity and responsibility we will look at the course of things - and once this harvest and the sale - what exactly has happened, we will record price falls and I hope that we do not have to come back to Parliament again. However, we will discuss them again, to see how we can stand next to the affected producers of Elias.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it may seem that the questions are repeated, but, you know, when the answers are the same and are implemented with a delay and partly, it is the duty of Members to return and raise matters and ask for specific answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u108	But we're not late.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u109	You have made a referral back to what has been done with compensation for these products. I asked you a question and you said that in a reasonable time the producers for whom the platform was opened on 2 June in the summer will be compensated. So we'll count by the end of August.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u110	They'll be documented and checked.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u111	You did not reply to me, however, the producers who had not made a statement to the IACC, while they had declared their crops normally, had paid the premiums to the OGA and were excluded under the decision, I am talking about the producers of the pressed potato who were also damaged if you are considering including them in the beneficiaries of compensation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u112	That was out of your question. You have now added it here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u113	I've asked you too many times and I ask you since you know it very much. Secondly, I have asked you and I have mentioned it in his question about vegetable salads which have been damaged three times and in three growing seasons have not been compensated until today. It is within the question, and I ask you whether you intend to compensate them because they have already been damaged in the first phase of a pandemic, as have the citrus fruits which have been damaged in two months of December - January. Now, for the frost I retain your commitment that 40% has been given by the end of July. I really hope that what you said will be implemented. I say this because all this if you sum up, you will see that growers and producers have accumulated problems and any compensation comes from the government or from the ELGA, with the delay that they have often not been effective. And I say it because because of the frost we have damages, we have a lot of fruitlessness in citrus fruit, on the raisin, and you know that because of the agricultural prefecture, they have been excluded from any suspensions of loans, taxes and insurance as if they were not affected, except the repayable advance they received and now, if I am not mistaken, you ask them to repay it by offsetting the amount of compensation, but you know very well that things in the primary sector are not as good as you would like to present. After all, it is no coincidence that in this Chamber we voted for a provision which spoke of an inappropriate compensation for COVID when there were tax debts or insurance funds because seven out of ten of the farmers and farmers owe them. So, firstly, I maintain that in a reasonable period of time they will be compensated, in the summer. Secondly, I expect to see whether there will be a corrective action today or another day for those who have not made a statement about the IAS by the beneficiaries of compensation. Thirdly, it is very important if you have the assessment that, apart from the products I am asking today in my question, there are other products which have damage due to the coronary, and it seems that we will be concerned next time, so if you are going to activate such requests to obtain approval and support from the European Commission and if you are going to ask for funding from the Ministry of Finance. And the last thing, we're asking whether you're going to incorporate the products I told you before and I'm saying it very well, Minister, because I know you're the ones you're listening to. It is incomprehensible why, apart from greenhouses in cucumber and tomato, vegetable salads have not been included in compensation and citrus fruits for a critical two-month period. That is why I would like to see you re-examine them, and if you think that the primary sector is currently having problems because of the pandemic or will be facing problems next time because of the pandemic, because we are living them and carrying them to us, Minister, producers every day as you do. This year they've been selling cheaper since last year because they're the accumulated two years.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u114	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u115	In order not to miss the plane, since I am too late, to tell you in summary: I said and I repeat that we will see and together in the summer what the damage is, we will evaluate them and discuss what we can cover. Secondly, with regard to this part of the IACS, it is complex. They are trying to work together with ELGA, OPEKEPE and the Ministry to see exactly what has happened and what can be done. However, I cannot commit myself to this because I have no service answer. As far as the other part is concerned, I will be absolutely honest. I wish we had a very large piece of shit with too much money to cover all these damages. As you know the medium-term is specific, as is the money. We are in a discussion with the Ministry of Finance and the General Accounting Office of the State to increase our budget. The more Budget grows, the greater possibilities we will have to cover damages and damages. If we assume, which I despair, that budget remains this, we should manage this money in a proportionate and fair way to cover those who have been the most. The more money we have - and don't put pressure on me for that, because I am, like Greece is pressing, we are all pressing to have more money at our disposal - we always manage them in a fair manner and that is why we are trying to do our own controls at the source, so that the wicked do not intrude. We want to be fair next to everyone. We will see what will be the final amount to be shaped and I assure you that we will use it with absolute justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Minister. And now we are moving to the eighth Question No 922/7-2021 on the second question of the President of Heraklion of the Change Movement, Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "A solution for the recognition of legacy parcels from the Register". Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Respecting the time, Minister, I will tell you very quickly that a very big issue has arisen, in the sense that it concerns thousands of fellow citizens and only in Heraklion Prefecture, imagine all over Crete, in the preamble to the Register, due to the fact that the Register did not recognize statements by owners of legacy sites and had to do with atypical fragmentation, since no fragmentation was allowed until 2012. There is, in other words, a different approach to the areas if they are legacy legacy than they are not. If it is not a legacy, two sworn statements and the E9 can be accepted in the register. In the case of the legacy, this shall not be done. After all the treatments and all the discussions we have had, we have resolved this with a regulation of the Ministry of Rural Development since 2012, but it was not retroactive. The Ministry of Rural Development also gave a solution to the expropriations made at Kastelion Airport, but only for this. So what is needed now is that the legacy should be effectively released from the commitment to non-decoration, and that must have a retrospective character since 2000, in order to come to an equal degree with the other parcels that are not legacy. It is a problem of the Ministry of Digital Policy, but it starts with the legislation of the Ministry of Rural Development. That is why I ask you to extend the 2012 arrangement with retroactive effect from 2000 onwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u118	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u119	First of all, Mr Kegeroglu, because I was in Crete two days ago, I have to say that I wonder how they did not raise this matter with me. But you're always ahead. So, as you said, the question you raise, which concerns how we get the statements and whether there is an equivalency for agricultural and urban areas, is indeed the answer that Mr Stylos will give you. I had prepared to tell you a story about how we got here. But you don't have to know them. You, too, realise that this is a legal issue which you raise in relation to retrospectiveness and the abolition, if I understand correctly, only of Article 1 of the 1968 forced law. Is that what you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u120	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u121	Good. At the moment - if I have understood correctly - this is not possible, as our legal services tell me. We want to have parity and parity. Let's talk it over with the lawyers again. It's not a political matter. It's a matter of law. We also need to see the overall answer to how we deal with this type of logbook and see what we can do in this regard. In any case, we do not want - and I imagine you do not want - to create two accusations, but they do not pay and they do not pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u122	Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u123	If we start, then, from the fact that there should not be two categories, today with your refusal you are maintaining the classification of the legacy from the common parcels. It is the legacy that the Asia Minor refugees have taken and it is unthinkable that so many years later, you should consider us - and insist - that we are a special charge, Mr Lebanese. It's unacceptable! Contact your Ministry and your advisers, but you haven't understood the problem. I don't know who you saw in Crete, but if you saw people from the four municipalities where the preview was given, they would really put the matter to you. You obviously didn't go where the problem is. I'm telling you, it's about thousands of people. There's no social event that I went to these days and didn't raise the matter with me. And because they know my origin, they all come to me. So I put this to you, which is a huge issue. You have to deal with this with a regulation that solves it and brings it to an equal degree with others. The simple agricultural parcel today can with two jury statements and the E9 go to the Land register. The legacy of the Asia Minor refugee can't be.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u124	This is not our issue, I'm telling you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u125	Hey, it's yours!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u126	It's not.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u127	Your own law prevents the Ministry of Digital Policy and Environment from doing its job. How do we do it? The 2012 arrangement, if it had been retroactive since 2000, would have given the solution. That's what we want. The collectiveisation of the law to pay people more than the value of the property, based on an arrangement that exists by Law 4673/2020 is cost-effective and time-consuming. It's 1,000 euros on the plot and the lawyer wants 1,500 euros. This thing can't be done! And when it's a simple parcel, it goes with 50 euros! So this injustice must be lifted, since you say that we must not have two accusations. I recognise that the issue needs to be considered if you have not studied it, but, if you'll excuse me, it has been a long time ago! Take a meeting with your members from Heraklion and then expose them, because, as you said, they have not put it to you, Members are being exposed from Heraklion. It's a huge issue right now in Heraklion. And why Heraklion? Because now there are four municipalities in the county. If it happens to the others, there'll be another one. Where there are lots, i.e. Asia Minor refugees, there is this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u128	Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Stylus will answer, but I'll say something, so we don't have any misunderstandings. You raise a legal issue politically. That's wrong. I tell you very simply to cooperate with our legal services, come with your legal knowledge too, to see what we can do. We have no intention of creating two categories nor of course of burdening people. From there on, however, we cannot make mistakes which will then cost us double and three times.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u130	Tell us where the mistake is! We won't be a hundred years later, Mr. Levant! Oh, no! I'm going to take this whole thing too high! That's because they want the 1,500 euros!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u131	We continue with the fifth under No 921/5-2021 topical question of the second question of the Hercules MP of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Digital Governance on the subject: "A solution to recognition of legacys from the Land Register". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u132	Minister, we'll say this a little at the beginning. But I think you have understood it from the previous debate. At this point we are not interested in the share of the lawyer, who may be interested in others, and I will be telling you that with all the lawyers I spoke to Heraklion, we have been told "we feel that this is unfair and that Law 4673 cannot be exploited with the ratification of the irregular act". These properties have been devalued, they are not urban property and the cost of the process provided for in the 2020 arrangement is much greater than their value. They do not feel well and so they are said to be "seek if the solution is given with political will". Mr Lebanese is wrong because he has not taken up the problem. I understand him the way he spoke. He hasn't dealt with the matter. It came with a suggestion which is from his legal counsel or from anyone else - I do not go into it - but the problem has not been politically worked out. They did not put it - and badly they did not - after visiting Crete, I do not know whether he went to Heraklion and the four municipalities - and so he has that view. But we have to give him the understanding, and I think that the Ministry is dealing with the problem and should ask the Ministry for Rural Development to be on the same fate the parcels which are not heirs with the legs. Why am I saying that? Because the reason for protecting the legacy by banning partitions has now expired long ago. It was about protecting people then. This is over. In practice, the parent has shared with his children, so he's cut it. There was a cutting ban, an informal transfer was made and to accept the Stock Exchange this informal transfer of the partition needs to be recognised. The original's dead. How to do it! The Asia Minor refugees have received property within either the framework of the exchanges or the distribution for rural rehabilitation and people have died. So, what are you telling us today? Acting with people who have died. It can't be done. We therefore need a legislative solution with political will. And that, as far as I've talked to everyone, is to come to an equal degree with the simple parcels and therefore the partitioning has been recognised retrospectively since 2000, so that we have the twenty years that anyone who has been able to make use of more than twenty years of a fragmented parcel. That's the solution. If there's another one you can tell us. However, we do not accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u133	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Kegeroglu, we have discussed this particular subject of your question before. I know his dimension, you know it, too. We have worked together, and we have also spoken with the Ministry of Rural Development who is trying and wants to give solutions to the problems of citizens. You say in your question - and it was the closure of your position before - that we have retroactive application to the validity of the law, that is, the law before 2012, from 2000 to 2012. You understand very well and all the lawyers understand what a retrospective application of the law means. It means: Transfers, transactions, sales that have taken place in this period will incorporate them into a law where we do not know which third parties are concerned and which third parties will have consequences. In simple terms, I am saying this example, as you have said very well. We have a legacy, which was legacy given to children. One of these children put this legacy on a mortgage, transferred it to someone else, resold it, created a slavery. These acts against third parties cannot be dealt with by retroactive application of the law before 2012. That is the problem, and that is why the Minister for Rural Development rightly told you that it is a legal issue, it is neither a political issue nor a will. The government's will - I say it earlier, I say it again and I remind you - is to find ways and solutions to the problem as a whole for those on the legacy, whether they are refugees or not they are just farmers or they are professional farmers, in all these categories. The legal problem, however, is understood by you too, because a confiscation may have been made. If we recognize this, confiscation goes away, we create the problem for someone else. Either a market has become or rights have been granted that have arisen. We cannot deal with this. Tell us your proposal and your solution, but it is a solution that is not a solution once and for all, so without respecting the equality and the Constitution, trying to solve the problem for a group of citizens. Thank you. I'll come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u135	You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u136	It is understood that you have not understood the problem. I will show understanding and explain it once again to you and to the lawyers who are involved and ask their legal colleagues in Heraklion to understand the problem. First of all, none of what you said does apply to these parcels because no bank puts a no name on a guarantee. Understood? These are no name. If you know the regime of the Cretan state with the informal transfer, the informal parental benefit, you would understand that these were divided, given to the heirs by an informal distribution. Only in the E9 are there. In land registers, land offices that were refugees, exchanges and everything else are as single parcels. The predecessor of Mr Lebanese, Mr Mavroudis Voridis, Minister for Rural Development and Law, has thus made the following provision: For heirs expropriated at the airport and in order to pay their actual beneficiaries, heirs and owners, the abolition of Article 1 of the 431 since its entry into force applies, says retroactively the abolition of Article 1 of the 431. It hasn't been abolished since 2000, since '68. The Makis Voridis doesn't know well legally? This is what we say to you that, for the needs of the livestock sector alone, in order to recognize, not to consider them as'red' and to reject them, to take into account the elements of the individual parcels which constitute the total legacy, what the original refugee, which was twenty acres, and now its two children or two grandchildren come in and declare ten and ten and do not recognize it. How much less can I do that, that there is a need for a regulation specifically for the register that has retrospective power to partition, as has been done informally and appears in the E9? The property doesn't leave. If he's in the bank, he's still in the pawn bank. If it's a prefix, it's still a prefix. There is no such thing, however, because most of them do not have contracts before '12 because they were not allowed to be contracted by partitioning. Understand? So, since it wasn't allowed to be partitioned, no mortgage has been entered. See the subject again, take the regulation of Law 4711/2020, is Article 19, and we change the phrase "especially for the needs of the Bookbook there is this retroactive power" and you have solved the problem. People have lost their deadline of preview, because they have not been able to state them. Because the process of ratifying the abnormal lawlessness is very costly and no one for a property that makes EUR 1 000 does not go to give EUR 1,500. Do you have to understand that? What do you want me to do? Do I have to fire myself to understand that there's a problem? It can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u138	Mr Colleague, you referred to an unofficial transfer, to an informal transfer that is, as we all know very well, on the legacy of the legacy throughout the country, that the division took place and said "this is yours" on the ground. I would also like to mention this because it concerns property which I know of my own sensitivity, and I also know your sensitivity to the country's rural world. You know, therefore, that agricultural property may have been rented, with exploitation, there may be rights paid by OPEKEPE. If we recognize what you say to Grandpa, the ancestor who has been lost...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u139	OPEKEPE recognizes it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u140	He recognizes it. But the third person, who has an obligation or a job, will not have whom to take his obligation back. So we are telling you a legal issue that exists, on which we cannot in any case, because we want to solve a problem, create greater problems for third parties. I think you understand that too. We don't want to transfer the problem to someone else. Let me make something else clear. The procedure you mentioned it many times is an informal procedure, it is not institutionalised in the law, which citizens can even now state their ownership if they have not been declared.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u141	It's a matter of recognition.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u142	Wait a minute, because you invoked her for the preview, to make it clear to the world. If they are already enrolling their rights in the vet, the holder who makes the record, may also be provided with additional information now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u143	You don't understand the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u144	Listen, people are interested. So I'm telling you this. There is, after four months, on a case-by-case basis - it is four months, depending on when the preamble has expired - the procedure of suspension, where all the necessary documents and supporting documents are available. Finally, to legislate for the needs of the register, here we are trying to legislate to solve the citizens' problem. The Land register law provides for and has the following philosophy. So the philosophy is that the owner comes and states. There's no need for the register to be declared. So once something has been recorded in the register and recorded, it has been consolidated and this property is not changed for anyone. That is why we are saying and clarifying what the warning is and what the suspension is. And in this case for the legacy, there is the solution from '12 onwards, which, as you quite rightly said, the government has given time by 2024. I'll say it again. We're in 2021. For any offence arising after '12, partition, distribution, whatever has been done, the correction may be made by 2024.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u145	Twelve years?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u146	I told the extension until 2024.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u147	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u148	You haven't understood the problem. You don't care...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u149	Please! Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-12-S1-commons.u150	With the agreement of the House at 19.35 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, 13 July 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of the proceedings of the House: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
