ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Good morning! I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: ‘Amendments to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, other provisions of the Ministry of Justice’. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u2	Before entering the topical and urgent debate, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday 15 November 2021, which reads as follows: A. PERSONS First Cycle Questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 142/1-11-2021, a topical question by the Member of the Messinia of the New Republic, Pericles Manda, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Korinth Grape Protection'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 145/2-11-2021 topical question by SYRIZA MP Laconia - Progressive Alliance Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, entitled 'Funding Basic Aid 2021'. 3. The question by No 149/3-11-2021, by MP Rodopi of the Change Movement, Mr Ilhan Ahmet, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Inadmissible and unsocial the suspension of the regional hospitals in the mountainous volume of Rhodope". 4. The 153/5-11-2021 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "The problems of small and medium-sized farmers in Crete". 5. The 146/2-11-2021 topical question by MP I Athens of Mera25 Mr Angeliki Adamopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Drakopoulou Estate: a visible and immediate threat to further environmental degradation". B. PERSONS Second-cycle Questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 148/3-11-2021 topical question by MP B2 'West Sector of Athens of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection on the subject: 'New Ministry of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 157/8-11-2021 topical question by the Member of Parliament of Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'When will the unacceptablely high number of outstanding pensions finally begin to fall?' 3. The 159/8-11-2021 topical question by F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larissis of the Communist Party of Greece Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Restoration of the damage caused by "Janus" to Karditsa and the flooding protection of the region". 4. The question by No. 147/2-11-2021, by MP B2' Western Athens Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Criminality of ELAS in cases of racial violence and domestic violence". 5. The 151/5-11-2021 topical question by SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skourletis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "It is necessary to maintain the operation of the 15512 SEP phone lines and 15900 for Violence against Women". 6. The 158/8-11-2021 topical question by the Member of Parliament of Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Strengthening the agony of the workers of LARCO". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 160/8-11-2021 by F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larissis of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "Loves in olive production in Thessaly from the problem of acarpia and schinocarpia". 8. The 155-11-2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Illegal show with a threatened eagle type announced by PAE AEK". 9. The 152/11-2021 topical question by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Charalambos (Hari) Mamoulakis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "What is the design of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy for the urban reconstruction of Heraklion's earthquakes?" 10. Under No 162/8-11-2021, a topical question by the Member of the Ilias of Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrin, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Debts, revaluations and reduced turnover are threatening the market in the midst of a pandemic." 11. The 161/8-11-2021 topical question of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Cover all the vacancies of the Physical Education course in schools with permanent teachers". 12. The 164/8-11-2021 topical question by SYRIZA Deputy East Attica - Progressive Alliance Mr. Athanasios (Nasus) Athanasios to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: ‘When do you intend to restore the Area of Uncontrolled Waste Disposal (HSD) to the protected wetland of the Egyptian Gods in the Brexiza area of the Municipality of Marathon?’ 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The Question No 165/8-11-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Integration of the earthquakes of the vast areas into an energy clearing programme and integration of the buildings to be rebuilt in savings at home - self-evidently the "freeze" of current accounts". 14. Observed. The Question No 166/8-11-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Great problems are created by the government's decision on the distribution of pastures - large reductions in subsidies". REFERENCES - Questions (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 90/6-10-2021 of the SYRIZA MP Florina - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theopportunity (Petis) Perkas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Net available for connecting energy communities to the lignite areas". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP B3' South Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theanos Fotou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Continuing the unacceptable delay in the relaunching of the programme for the housing of uninsured over-ages, you condemn thousands of elderly people to find themselves without a roof, with all the disastrous results that this entails for their very survival".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General of the Government informs us that three topical questions will be discussed today and one will not be discussed in consultation. It is the third with number 163/8-11-2021, first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Eotolokarnania of the Change Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: “Direct payment of aid to producers of Atolokarnania. The topical questions which will be answered by the same Minister or State Secretary will be discussed after each other. We begin with the fourth under No 156/5-11-2021 topical question by MP Serres of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Boubas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "How many Greeks live in Skopje today and to what extent the national identity of thousands of Greeks in the region is hidden." The State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr Kostas Frangogiannis, will answer. Mr Bouba, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, on the occasion of what happened a few days ago in Skopje, as regards population census, there is no information, no information. Through the media, there has been no hint on this issue, so that people - and you know it - could have been a census in the state of Skopje for twenty years. It was to be in 2011. The Slavs did not find them with the Albanians, there was no confidence and it was decided that 20 years of population census would take place in Skopje last month. The results will be given in March on how the distribution, composition, the puzzle of the population in the state of Skopje is made. The issue is this: Have you been interested in contacting the Embassy, with the Consulate, because things have been cooking - not now - for too long? We recall that in the government of Constantine Mitsotakis in 1992, Kiro Gligorov had said that in Skopje there are 100 thousand Greeks. On many occasions there were research by authors, researchers, Mr. Cholekolas, we have Mr. Dimitris Readingos who made a journey in 2009 and many of these Greeks of Skopje said "we cannot say that we are Greeks, terrified", i.e. there were journalistic surveys. The President of the community, Mr Stergias Kageros, also speaks of the blasphoon-speaking Greeks who must protect them. In other words, on the basis of historical evidence, Mr Minister, things are being altered there, cooked, changed - you can understand - for their own reasons the Skopje. We cannot, in other words, have such historical evidence. I will not go back to the previous century and make a historical retrogression, but Gligorov cannot speak for a hundred thousand Greeks in 1992, to refer to new surveys in 1998, some are talking about more than a thousand Greek souls there, I am more than a hundred thousand Greeks who are about 5% of the population of Skopje and suddenly as by magic in 2001, only four hundred and twenty Greeks appear with Greek conscience and Orthodox faith. So there we drowned them with the shameful treachery agreement of the Ambassadors. I don't know, in the little, the great Prespa, for throwing these Greeks away? Because there was no mention of the Greek minority in Skopje in this betrayal agreement. There are the bladders, the granules, you know it very well, we have the same hometown, Kavala on Macedonian land. So, what about them? There are thirty-five Greek companies in Skopje with an annual turnover of EUR 10 billion. Is there any interest in that? Do we have any evidence? Has the Consulate been informed? Did you make the appropriate moves with the experience and knowledge you have in order not to alter populations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in September 5 to 30 September 2021 a population census was carried out in the Republic of Northern Macedonia in Skopje, as you call it. It should be noted, however, that although the census process has been completed, the processing and communication of the results are expected in the coming year. So we are curious to see the results of this inventory. In particular, with regard to the Greeks who are living today in the Republic of Northern Macedonia, according to information from our consulate office in Skopje, there are listed by our Consulate in Skopje ninety-four Greek citizens on the basis of voluntary admission to the consular register held at our beginning regarding Greek citizens residing abroad permanently or temporarily with the last entry in this case that took place in 2016. Corresponding to data from our Consulate General at the Monastery there are registered twenty-five Greek citizens with the latest registration in 2014. We are talking about Greek citizens living in the Republic of Northern Macedonia. I repeat that this cannot be regarded as complete at all, since it concerns only the registration of those who voluntarily come to our consular authorities in the country. In addition, I would like to take account of the fact that there is a significant Greek business community in the Republic of Northern Macedonia. I've visited her several times, I've met them many times. They are Greek entrepreneurs who, although permanently resident in the country due to the proximity of both countries and the possibility of direct access to the neighbouring country, do not choose the registration procedure in the above consular registers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Booba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u8	Minister, with regard to the data with the business people you are talking about - because there are many places - that is correct. I mean, apart from Skopje, Skopje is Glossy, Stromnica, the Monastery, all these known places. The issue is - I repeat - the historical facts of Mr. Reader, Mr. Kaloger, Mr. Holepa show other things. These are the ones we take into account to study the Ministry from deep down, to see exactly what is going on in Skopje? Because here it's clear cooking, it's clear with testimony. We cannot, in the 1992s, have Gligorov for a hundred thousand Greeks and they suddenly become four hundred. There's something going on here. For the simple reason why the census between the Slavs and the Albanians has been delayed. A few days ago - as this is a very serious issue - we, the President and the other Members have asked for a committee of inquiry to consider the issue concerning the shameful and treacherous Ambassadors' agreement. You're still not bringing it. There were other things there a few days ago. Newly elected municipal councillors in Steppe and Aerodrop signed the constitution of "Macedonia" because they invoke Article 38 of the local government of the country that has not changed. It is running and is not enough now, as is the Ministry of Local Government of Skopje, Mr Miletski, to try, because the duplicate and nationally harmful agreement is not being observed. And now Gruevski is probably coming back from Hungary. I mean, things change over there. We now have Mrs Stendana Ibrahimova who is in the Left Party and says that they must swear in the Constitution of the Republic of Macedonia. They do not recognise the 2018 referendum. There, he says, "no" prevailed for the name we betrayed. The oldest referendum in 1994 is invoked. So here we go to other perverts. Also, a few days ago, our President, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, has tabled a question on the occasion of Skopje's abrasive national anthem. We, the President of the Republic, welcomed the President of Skopje, Mr Pentarovski, with the resurgence of this particular national anthem. Have we considered what the national anthem says? He's an assailant. Mr Minister, what does the national anthem say, as Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos says, our President? He even mentions pussies and gypsies. Look at it. Therefore, we cannot all create this new map of Thourios, which we want to create for a Balkan unity and harmony that there is this propaganda with the alteration of the population of the Vlach-speaking Greeks, there is this with the national anthem that is assimilating and talking about the great Macedonia of the Tower Mrs.Ilinden, for the Macedonia of the Aegean Sea. We're both from Macedonia from Kavala. It's clear about what happened lately with Ibraemova. Gruevski is probably returning from Hungary, a purely nationalist. And he goes by saying. It is a tangible example of what has been done in the last elections in Stipe and Aerodrop by municipal advisors invoking Article 38 of local government. Do you realise, Minister, what is currently happening from the Skopje propaganda in response to the census we have had a few days ago? Are you concerned about all this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u9	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u10	Mr Colleagues, what you are talking about is what we are talking about and what we are concerned about. The Embassy Agreement is an agreement with which we must cohabit. It is an agreement with which we often have in our party express our disagreements but the neighbouring country is a neighbouring country and we must co-exist with them. We must respect the Presidencies' Agreement and demand that the other side observe it. We are listening to all the statements from the Opposition which concern us. We have made it clear in our joint statements that it is our policy to honour our signature provided that others honour their signature. You referred twice to my origin from Kavala. I would like to tell you that in politics, Mr Colleague, and you know it very well, since you too are from Macedonia, you have to choose between feeling and logic sometimes. The difference that makes how feeling and how logical you put it is called political responsibility. They say politics is the sum of emotion, logic and responsibility. We are therefore dealing with our relationship with the Republic of Northern Macedonia with a responsibility which has both feelings and logic. We need to work in terms of good neighbourliness. We are very concerned about the black clouds that exist above the western Balkans. It's a special period right now and we've got our attention there. Both my Minister, Mr. Dendias, and I have gone to the Republic of Northern Macedonia, Albania, Kosovo. Next week I'm going back to Serbia. I've been to Albania. We have close relations with all the countries of the Western Balkans which have special moments and special relations with each other. There are several tensions. We need to clarify the battles he is fighting and the battles he does not give. And I assure you that both our consulates and our embassy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are aware of the situation and we support the Greeks who live in northern Macedonia, the entrepreneurs operating in northern Macedonia and the Greek citizens of northern Macedonia. We will continue to monitor developments and react in the light of developments in our region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u11	The first question will be discussed under No 144/1-11-2021 in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister for Immigration and Asylum, on the subject: 'Removal of third-country nationals for employment in agricultural work'. The State Secretary, Sophia Vultutis, will answer. Mr Davakis, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. The subject of this question relates to a real situation that has been created in the last few years in large areas of the Greek south, but not only to the lack of workers' hands by third-country workers, workers of land as we say them, in order to contribute to olive-growth, for example, or to the harvesting of citrus basic products in the Greek region, particularly in the southern regions. Minister, I believe that the Ministry of Rural Development as an expedited Ministry should have come to answer this timely question. This has brought this legislative initiative through the amendment. The Ministry of Rural Development, in an amendment it had tabled in March 2021, says that ‘a worker who wishes to hire a third-country citizen who is exempt from the visa requirement’ in accordance with Article 5(4) of Law 4251 ‘may submit by 30 September 2021, by way of derogation from the legislation in force, an application to the competent Immigration and Migration Service of the decentralised administration of the place of residence’. This deadline, Mr President, has expired on 30 September. We now need it in order to relocate these workers, people who have supported agricultural income and have contributed to the development of Greek agriculture decades now. My request, therefore, is - and that is why we are bringing the timely question - to extend it to Italy, to extend this time limit until the end of the year in order for these farmers to be relocated, since these people because of their living needs are going to Italy where this procedure is more simplified. The result is that people who know our production cannot find them because they have already gone to Italy. It's very important. We will have long delays in oil collection, long delays in the collection of citrus fruits, with what this means both for quality and for prices and for all those that make up agricultural income. I would ask you to see it from its real and effective side, as you are effective in your Ministry of Responsibility, so that we farmers in our region, now that the oil carrot collection - has already begun - can give a concrete answer. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u13	Mrs Vulture, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u14	Mr Davakis, the facts do have the way you mentioned them. There was a platform that opened, by way of derogation from the provisions in force, for the protection of the pandemic. During this time, employers could use this platform to move land workers from other countries. It was a provision which was adopted by way of derogation for the reasons of the pandemic. It was not possible to last longer. That provision was indeed concluded on 30 September 2021. However, employers have the possibility of energising by their application the process that existed in the past. It may be that some people, on the assumption that this would last forever - something that could not be done at European level too - did not progress quickly in the procedures that have already been carried out over the past years and, in fact, the communications have actually been made. Maybe that's where there was a involvement. In other words, people felt that there could be a new extension. I'll take that. Otherwise, this system cannot function by way of derogation from the provisions. So now the employer has the right and the possibility of requesting the revocation of a third-country citizen as a seasonal worker. He's going to his Immigration and Immigration Service. They have all been instructed, especially for Laconia, to proceed quickly. And really if you have a problem, we'd like you to let us know, that is, if there's a problem with the services there. The directive specifically on Laconia - and because we know the peculiarities you are talking about between northern Greece and southern Greece - is that these procedures should be progressed quickly. From there on, I would like you to know that legislation itself has been reformed in the following points. I read it because it's a provision. The seasonal employment period increased from six months per 12-month period to nine months. Therefore, nine months can come per 12-month period. The employer may submit a request to withdraw a seasonal worker for a period of up to nine months per 12-month period for a total period of five years. So he doesn't have to go back to a process that I understand he's afflicting themselves and so they're asking for the platform. Finally, I should like to say to you that the electronic renewal of all kinds of residence permits is being implemented by our Ministry since 16 November and the electronic renewal of all kinds of residence permits will immediately be initiated by the electronic process for employers with the well-known old system, but not by way of derogation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, the well-known old system you said brought the Ministry of Agriculture to an amendment last March because it is time-consuming and I understand it proved ineffective. You said - and the agency says - that with the old law, i.e. Law 4251/2014, as amended by Law 4825/2021, Article 47, a blocking - let's say it - is not possible for these people to have the people they need at this particular time period. We're talking about a certain period of time. We are not fully concerned with this, because they now need farmers, they do not need them throughout this time range of the nine months. As to whether there is a matter of our local service, the Lakonia Accomodation Licence Department, I would like to tell you that these people, in a heroic way, are doing their duty. But there is, as you will know, a great sub-delegation to all services. They have been lost, they are in a very difficult situation so that they cannot manage whatever decisions we make here, because there is mainly a lack of staff and a great need to provide solutions and answers to the whole bureaucracy that composes this issue. Madam Minister, I believe that we must - and I repeat, and you must contact - I think that this is an opportunity now, with the main relevant Ministry for Rural Development, because it concerns agricultural products and levers which are what we are discussing now - even ask for an extension of this amendment and, from 30 September to the end of the year, so that these people - and we are talking about a country of mostly Albanian origin, which is a third country - can be moved by the system that has gone to heal the old one you have invoked to me with the system of the amendment. It will be the safest to give an effective and effective solution. I am pleased that the State Secretary for Rural Development is now present to hear. We must give an effective solution to the issue that concerns us for the land workers. I think that a solution can be found. He'd have to answer the co-responsible department. As far as - and this is an opportunity to say this - the Lakonia residence permit department has no complaints. Complaints may have these people, because they have no staff to respond to the problems they face on a daily basis or the land workers excluding, but also other problems with residence permits. That's all I wanted to say. I believe that what the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs said earlier - I noted it because I liked it - that politics is a sum of logic and responsibility, can also be applied in this particular case. We ask for reason. The logic says that right now the Laconese producers are picking up olives, and soon they'll pick up oranges and need agricultural hands. You will for three months be extending the provision of the amendment, which had come in March 2021. I believe it is best that the Minister and the State Secretary should come tomorrow and bring the same extension amendment from September to the end of the year. I believe that this will solve our problem effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u17	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u18	Mr Colleague, I fully understand what you are saying. Indeed, there is a problem with regard to subsecution and surely people are trying to do their job properly. There are many demands, however, and they are few. It's a wish that Mr. Stylus is here. I think it is the Ministry of Rural Development that puts the priorities per region. You will see it again because parliamentary control and parliament are alive. Whether it can reopen a platform, we need to see it with regard to other provisions. I just want you to know that because of the fact that people don't have time to meet the demands there, because if they catch up with them, it wouldn't be such a big deal, it would all go faster while electronically it always makes sense to do everything...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u19	To open the platform.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u20	The platform, yes. When a platform closes, I don't know exactly how it opens. It is a wish that we have been together here with Mr Stylion so that this issue can be resolved, especially for Laconia which now has the problem with the gathering of olives. You should be aware that at noon, in the Committee of the Regions, I will also have a presentation regarding our own areas, the refugee issue for the critical sectors of the Greek economy, because, as we see it, we are taking every year too many people from abroad for agricultural work, but also for other sectors of our economy, while we could have trained, trained people who otherwise are here and who would not have borne the state budget and would have an autonomy, which is also the purpose of implementing the Geneva Treaty. So, after all, I have no objection. I will ask the Secretary of Migration Policy to make it easier and to see a little bit of what things are, if we can help people, our officials in Laconia, but also to facilitate these processes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u21	We agree, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Stylus agrees, here you go. It's done. Mr President, in the procedure for questions, if they are submitted to two ministries, there must be a presence of both, so that the Member does not have to return to the next ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u23	Thank you. The second question will be discussed under No 154/5-11-20201 of the SYRIZA MP for the first cycle - the Progressive Alliance Mr.Olympia Telikoridos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Illegal distribution of the National Reserve for Fundamental Payments in the EU. Kastoria’. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor for the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, in recent months there have been fraudulent and illegal acts which have shown that a fraud procedure has been set up for the implementation of aid from the national reserve by experts to the detriment of real farmers and the public. For example, in the Regional Unit of Kastoria in 2020 crops were declared, which are either infinite or impossible to exist in the Regional Unit of Kastoria due to the weather conditions and thus theft of aid. In particular, 15 thousand acres of almonds were declared in 2020 when actual cultivation does not exceed 30 hundred sixty-five acres. Twenty - five hundred eighty acres of olive groves were declared when in Kastoria there can be no olive production. Sixty - four thousand acres of private pastures were also declared, while there is not a single acre of private pasture in the P.C. Castorias. Overall, we are talking about a sleight of 3,360,000 euros by abusers, which has caused the intense anger of the rural world and the rural actors in the region. The characteristic of fraud is that the parties involved, the illegals when they perceived - so by what procedure - that in 2021 in the Regional Unit of Kastoria there was a remote sensation not declared these acres and there were fifty-six thousand acres less in the declarations. Similar complaints have seen the light of publicity for Rethymnon, Heraklion, Chania, islands of North and South Aegean, on Magnesia that activates rights in Kozani. Are you asking, therefore, because this is a very serious issue and is taking the form of an avalanche, have you checked the distribution of the national reserve? Have you carried out on-the-spot checks on these declared areas to get back rights taken by circuits with fraudulent behaviour? How do you intend to restore the injustice to withdraw this money and to be given to real farmers so that there is no risk of sanctions being imposed by the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u25	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, I would like to say this because you mentioned some of the words that have become illegal and theft, these phrases are yours and they are recorded in the Minutes and they can be used by anyone. I do not know if you are sure that you want to insist, if you want to revise and delete from the Minutes, I do not know if the President is listening. In order to help you personally, but also to help us with the leadership and the Ministry and the OPEKEPEPE to make the whole process properly, legally, in accordance with the regulations, so that we can be typical and correct as we want, and it is our will, and as the law states, and I am telling you this. You mentioned in your question about the Regional Unit of Kastoria that grants were granted in the year 2020 for fifteen thousand acres of almonds, twenty thousand acres of olive groves and sixty-four thousand private pastures. This data does not in fact correspond to not only the areas taken by a national reserve, but even to the total area declared as aid for 2020. I've brought the relevant data here, I'll give you the table, use it. According to OPEKEAP figures, based on the 2020 CIS declarations in the Regional Unit of Kastoria, about three hundred thousand acres of which were about four thousand hectolitres in shell, the two hundred eighty-seven acres of olive groves and sixty-six thousand acres were pastures. Of these, the demands of the national reserve were about forty thousand acres, of which six hundred were dormant, seventy were olive groves, and eight thousand two hundred acres were pastures. These are the official OPEKEPE data. You have also been able to make a request through parliamentary control to look for documents and to be notified to you to use them in your question. Let's go see what actually happened to Castoria. Finally, all applications for national reserve were six hundred, five hundred and eighty for accuracy and forty thousand acres. Of these six hundred, thirty-seven were approved for which the total area determined was estimated at three thousand seven hundred acres, seventy - seventy - five - five acres of grassland, three hundred - one mile [three hundred - five acres]. That is, from the initially requested sum to receive from the national reserve of one million, the final amount allocated according to our data from the OPEKEPE was 100,000. In other words, six hundred producers made CIS declarations. Of them, thirty-seven were approved. The six hundred asked for a million of the national reserve. Finally, after the audits carried out by OPECE, 100,000 euros were granted throughout the entire process. These are the elements that we have from OPECE. If it gives us the wrong evidence, you help us, you tell us, here we are to correct them. The question could not be asked, but it is right that we should speak in public with transparency and give it to justice as well to see where the difference is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u27	Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I do not understand at the beginning of your answer whether this is an admonition or a threat to what you said about the way I was placed. And I do not know whether this threat is about me or about the publications by rural operators, from widely circulated newspapers throughout Greece about how it worked the theft of the national reserve and about the biggest scandal against farmers and farmers of the IP Kastoria, which I will testify to in the Minutes. The information you have actually given is interesting and I would like you to submit and see it, but I am very afraid that they do not respond to the reality, as the aggregates that have been officially provided to the agricultural cooperative Kastorias are completely different. And you know, after handling the New Democracy Government for three years to distribute the national reserve where there are a number of complaints that have arrived at the prosecutor, Mr Secretary, and you know that, and it is investigated and justice, you cannot say that this is not the case and if it is the case that we go to justice. This process has also been triggered following complaints from rural bodies. I'm asking again. Will you get back the money that has been given to human scholars? How does it explain the fact that it seems internal information when the declarations are changed from year to year? Will you break this abscess? Will on-the-spot checks be carried out throughout the country to resolve this issue and the money to be taken by the real farmers and not by the scientists? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Stylus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. My colleague, I have given you a number of data, which I said to you is officially from OPEKEPE - I will give the relevant table - and I told you how you can obtain this information and you too, so that we do not discuss with different data. At least let's start over there. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, George Stylos, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The second is whether these figures apply. OPEKEPE is a European agency operating in our country, here in our Ministry, with European conditions. You have also nursed at the Ministry and your party was responsible for the country's governance and the way the OPECE regulation applied and operated on your own country's governance, in the same way it works today. So what you are referring to was also your term of office.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u31	Oh, no! You amended the regulation in May 2021!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u32	No, no. It also works for your service. Report theft and the scandal. They may sound nice to tell the world with objects that it's been stolen somewhere. But bring us evidence. We are the government that under no circumstances is going to tolerate such phenomena and give an alibi to these situations. That is why our government and the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food is moving on to a number of controls throughout the country. You have heard the fines imposed on those who did the well-known process of Hellenism, but I leave this. Now, from the OPEKE data, I tell you that for the national reserve of 2020 an additional on-site sample of targeted controls, based on risk analysis, was carried out. Administrative on-the-spot checks have been carried out to two thousand seven hundred producers - these are all over the territory - to determine the beneficiaries, and additional checks have been carried out on a sample of potential beneficiaries to exclude applicants who have probably technically created the conditions for obtaining the aid's advantages. So what am I telling you? That three thousand controls were carried out, beyond cross-references, computers, administrative checks, on-the-spot surveys throughout the country, just to find out where there is a problem. What I said in my first speech, that we had six hundred applications, and eventually a hundred thirty-seven were approved and that they asked for 1 million, but were finally given 100 thousand, proves that the check is working. If it doesn't work, bring us real evidence. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. I'll give some evidence about Castoria. Since cross-checks were carried out in cooperation with the AIA, especially for Kastoria, four hundred seventy-seven-seven-seven, twenty-eight on-the-spot checks of livestock - eight experts and one on-the-spot checks - and three additional specific checks. So how does the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food work? It gives a political mandate to carry out checks at all stages, so that Greek producers know the reality. And he comes to second stage, and what's he doing? It shows where there are problems and supports producers. In this respect, I would refer you to the recent joint announcements by the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Agriculture and Food on oil, but also to the aid, which we have given to a number of extreme weather phenomena that the climate crisis has imposed on us, where in total, were made in the advance procedure of more than EUR 50 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u33	The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. The time is 10.05. Right at 10.15 a.m. is starting the bill. The two main rapporteurs are in the Chamber, but I would ask the other Members to come and start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. I would like to make a statement to this House. The Minister of Culture and Sport, the Minister of Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, National Defence, Education and Religion, Work and Social Affairs, Environment and Energy, Civil Protection, Justice, Interior, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, the Deputy Ministers of Finance, Foreign and Home Affairs, as well as the Deputy Minister to the Prime Minister deposited on 9-11-2021 a draft law on the protection of antiquities and cultural heritage in general. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: ‘Amendments to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, other provisions of the Ministry of Justice’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 4 November 2021 to discuss the draft law in two meetings, one in principle, on articles and amendments. In particular, it is proposed that the debate on the draft law should take place with the presence of Members in twelve cycles. The names of the speakers have already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters and the Office has drawn up the list to be distributed to you. I would remind you that speakers who wish to be put through a teleconferencing will speak as soon as the speakers have completed their courses in a natural presence. Is there any objection to the basic procedural proposal? Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u35	The House unanimously agreed. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Konstantinos Karagkounis, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that in the committees we have had a very fertile drafting of the bill, and we have analysed the provisions in depth. And I think that in this two-day debate we will be able to work out the articles even more specifically, and wherever we need to proceed with further improvements. In fact, I would like to congratulate the Ministry of Justice on this initiative, the excellent scientific partners who have dealt with this excellent effort, and of course the Monitoring Committee on the Criminal Code and the Professor, Lambro Margaritis, and the highly prominent members of the committee who have proposed these provisions. As I said before, we had the opportunity to analyse the articles in detail. We'll do it and then. So, today, I would like to present the changes to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure through a rightful look and explain in a simple way to the citizens who are listening to us what we are changing with these amendments and what the bill is about. Ladies and gentlemen, any change in the substantive and procedural rules of criminal law is, I think, a very important legislative intervention for a state, because criminal law is an expression of the most exclusive competence, almost the warning of a state. And that is exactly the piece of legislation we are discussing today. And for this reason, its importance for the state and for the citizens - I repeat, as I have already explained in the committee procedure - we must approach, not as a theoretical, not as an academic, not as something rhetorical, but as a response to the needs of society. Why do you not doubt, as I will then explain, that these changes do not respond to any of our dogmatic needs, but they are the same society that calls for them and ultimately through us Members of this House, and that we evaluate and speed up, of course, legislate and impose them. After all, this is the essence of legislative power: the legalisation of rules governing real problems in society. In fact, when we talk about criminal law and ultimately our policy towards common crime, these changes should largely be self-evident and be the product of wider cross-party support. This, ladies and gentlemen, is because crime concerns and touches everyone, whether they are rich or poor, whether they are young or old, whether men or women. In the face of crime, we are all the same, and therefore the interventions in dealing with it should unite us and not separate us. Unfortunately, however, once again to a certain extent the attitude of the Officerate is yet another expression - I told you in the committees - of traditional negativity, in which you are trapped over time. Only in the case of changes to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure should you finally understand - and we have made it clear and clear with many examples - that you are not in fact opposed to us, to a certain extent opposed to society itself. Because the regulations of the new Criminal Code aim to respond to this new social reality. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, our country, which was compared to other countries, and almost over the years, at least in many, many years, an oasis of social peace - at the level of crime, I mean, unfortunately - has now to deal with serious and heinous crime. And I have said it too many times in recent years for too many reasons. The quality of the crime has changed. I saw them blame us on a piece of the press that was supposed to be changing - the Minister told the committees - we are giving television law. In other words, a law affected by the cases of publicity and concerned the citizen. Only, of course, this reproach has nothing to do with reality. I would say, ladies and gentlemen, that the reverse is true. The reason why the press and television show these cases is because they are objectively serious, because they are rightly deeply concerned about the traditional acquis of social peace which this country had. Why, of course, the victim of the terrible attack on sulphuric acid, which destroyed the face and life of this victim, this girl, was not the leader of a television show to justify our being indebted to us by television law. It is a woman who exists, is a woman who lives among us and every Greek felt deep human solidarity for what was suffered. It would, of course, be paradoxical for this solidarity and the interest shown by every citizen and society as a whole not to concern us with the state itself, so that such atrocious behaviour can be avoided in the future through the general and special provision of criminal law. Nor, of course, is the terrible case of the unfortunate mother who was murdered in Pallini with her child next to me and who professedly professedly murdered her not to hesitate to make fun of all the Greeks and ultimately to make fun of the legal order, as a television script. We are talking about real people, people next door, which unfortunately the mother is no longer in life, and the baby has a life unfortunately, wondering how these monsters happened. Is it a television law to try to protect society from such atrocities in the future too? It is not only that this is not a television law, but it is a misleading slogan to say that this bill is a sterile, blind firmness of the law. It is a misleading slogan which, unfortunately, has been heard and expelled by you and the Qualified Opposition and, of course, by some bodies who have said so. We are dealing with this emergency for society in a proper and correct way, unlike all those who say this. Allow me to say, Mr. Lappa, that I have the feeling that you are dealing with it more academically, more ideologically than the moments allow. As I said to the committee, if you feel comfortable talking about tightening up, I personally have no problem, but I am sure they do not have a problem with the Ministry and the Minister and the State Secretary. Because, in fact, there is no rigidity. The right expression and what this piece of legislation is trying to do is not to achieve the strictness of the legislation, but the proportionality of the state's reaction. Because what each citizen feels and you call it stricter, is that criminal treatment of serious crime is often disproportionately diligent. Therefore, we are not going to impose a blind tightening, as you say, but to cure a deficit in its criminal liability for a number of serious criminal offences against which society must defend itself. Because I think every citizen feels this deficit, which I have spoken about, and the restoration of which we are aiming at, when they see the perpetrators of such shameful acts, such as those I have just mentioned, they are punished by any dissuasive penalties or penalties, which are not convinced that proper, real justice has been given, or through procedural dismissals, where, after three years, such criminals may be among us again, making fun of victims and society as well as of the state and creating again outbreaks of permanent invasion. Is it, as you say, tightening up to take action so that we do not see seen-seeing murderers, like that of Pullene, after three or four years of being among us again? Is it, as you say, a strict punishment for child rape with the punishment of isobic ties? Because, ultimately, even science argues that rape in such ages is a kind of permanent and permanent death for the unprotected victim for the rest of his life. If, then, there are some people who claim this, I would say that I do not agree with you either as a lawyer or as a former Minister of Justice, but above all as a father and a husband, but also as a citizen, who has a sense of real justice between us. Through these amendments, ladies and gentlemen, we are not only concerned with the very serious and morally horrendous crime, such as the one that goes against life, sexual freedom and dignity, but also with the public, but also with everyday crime. That's why, too, I ask, rhetoric, obviously. Is it strict to punish the forest arsoner always maliciously, even in the case of simple risk? Why think - we saw it in the nightmare August that he caused - and especially what such arsonists can cause, loss of life, loss of property, endless mental pain, destruction of our natural heritage, but also of quality of life, which guarantees the environment and ultimately undermines life and prosperity and future generations. Do you consider it strict to protect society from such a deep antisocial behaviour of genuine hatred for all and all? In fact, I think that both I and society are surprised if anyone supports all this. Because even green sensitivities I understand in some of this Chamber are there, they will seem to be just rhetorical. However, for my part, I will once again say that these changes that we are bringing about, as I have said before, do not have blind tightening, but the disproportionateness and the restoration of a balance between crime and its ratification. The final result, of course, is the restoration of effective justice. Unfortunately, because you understand all this, you know that the changes we are proposing are self-evident and lead to proportionality, some are trying to redirect for things also obvious and self-evident, creating in a sense a political scarecrow. Of course, I am referring to the political specula referred to in Article 187 of the Criminal Code, which, in addition to misleading rhetoric for blind stiffness, is the second basis of the deception you are attempting. Because you and a part of the press are giving up our recast of this article on our part with the unfounded and misleading allegations that we are allegedly trying with this article to fade the different expression, to squeeze free criticism, to squeeze the press and, in general, to impose a silence, so that we do not have a representative status. Of course, nothing could be more misleading, because this article in its new recasting restores what has been in place for decades, namely that it should be checked and punished for disturbing social peace by public liars, which has always been the case for matters relating to the national economy and national defence, which is now being extended to the public health issues, of course, all these years before the last Criminal Code formulated it in such a way that, in fact, I have said so to the committees, Mr Lappa - make it inappropriate in practice. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will only need a few minutes to finish. All these years, therefore, I have told you and the committees that no one has been prosecuted for the criticism he has made of economic issues, national defence, foreign policy and health. The reason, of course, is that this article - and then now - protects against dispersing false claims, false facts. Neither opinions nor judgments nor assessments nor proposals. The only thing that concerns is falseness, which can dynamise social peace and cause other damage to legal goods. That is why the article is always considered constitutional, always compatible with freedom of expression. The Ice Bay Plenary Assembly has ruled on this question since the 1980s. Of course, if the article were the way you fear and present it, all of us would have suffered some punishment. Of course, however, this has never happened, because the article does not concern our opinions and our judgment. Of course, you know that very well, Mr Lappa. I would like to mention the example you have given with the freshness we bought from France. I told you to the committees. If someone with the new article says that freshmen are not a good choice, then there's never any way to get involved with criminal law. If one were to write or claim publicly that this market for freshmen would never have a problem, because that is his free judgement, it is his free assessment, which could only be controlled as a failed or successful on the public stock exchange. However, if it were to say that these wells were not a good choice because there was a problem - because, I know, their bottom is not of steel, it was made of material that would get water - and that was false, then it really would be a problem. Can I tell you something, ladies and gentlemen? Very well, he would have a problem and he should have a problem, because, you know, freedom of expression in the Constitution has no point in protecting lies. What you are saying in a sense is that they really remind me of what we were discussing, my dear colleague, in anti-racist law, at the time when your party refused to vote in favour of the provision of criminalising the Holocaust's refusal again on the grounds of freedom of expression. I say this because these days are celebrating Auschwitz' liberation. I do not want to make any connection, Mr President, so that I do not mislead myself. But you know there are now Nazi Holocaust negligents. And the reason why this has become a crime in so many countries is because it is a terrible lie. And the Holocaust happened, and the testimonies are there, and the gas chambers are...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Karaguni, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u38	I shall conclude, Mr President. You see, however, that this is a typical example of this provision. So if some people think that we should believe all these disgusting ones, with those teratologies that say, then they really do, we deny it and disagree and we are glad to say that there is no right - none, but no right - to the blatant lie. I conclude, Mr President, by saying this: this bill only aims to restore the lack of responsibility in connection with the common crime. It extends the protection of society, making the criminal treatment of serious crime more equitable and proportionate. I repeat that even at the last moment, let us leave the opposition to the opposition and agree intergrouply and consensually on what is self-evident about society, namely protection against crime. So I think we should vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u39	There will be a small change now, after Mr Ilhan Ahmet has been consulted with Mr Spyridon Lappa. As Mr Ahmet has an urgent task, he will take precedence and will always follow Mr Lappas. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] I would also like to thank my colleague from SYRIZA and you, Mr President, for the opportunity you have given me. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, my infamous professor of Criminal Law Androullakis said that Criminal Law and Criminal Procedure are applied Constitutional Law, which is the very function of the rule of law and the protection of human rights. In this sense, any intervention in this must be absolutely necessary, justified and entirely proportionate to the real needs of the social group. These are the general principles. In this context, our rapporteur in the committees emphatically stressed that legislation in the field of Criminal Law should be careful, prudent and always fully aware of the historic responsibility of the legislator. We in the Change Movement are neither dogmatic nor hide behind theoretical structures. We are fully aware of the serious social problems and the challenges of society. We are well aware that a large proportion of the country's population - as a whole, I can say - feel and declare unsafe. Crime persists and increases. For these reasons, there is no doubt that interventions are needed. Yes, we must be hard on crime, yes, we must be ruthless in the application of the law, especially in heinous crimes, offences against sexual freedom and others. But are all the provisions contained in this draft law intentional and adequate? As far as we're concerned, I guess not. We say this because the draft law, which we have in our hands, is characterised by a punitive logic. You move on to a general tightening of penalties and do it without specific targeting, without qualitative or quantitative data proving not only the logic, but also the essential pursuit behind this choice. With the draft law being discussed, you are intervening, for once, in the texts of two fundamental codes, such as the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, before they can be implemented and assessed after a sufficient period of validity through society and judicial practice. However, you are intervening in a rough and fragmented manner, following the news once again. A classic recipe of your Government, which insists on going without a plan and legislating based on the tips of the newspapers and based on the anger of public opinion, public opinion that, let us not hide, we know that it is often directed and disorientated deliberately. Refugee to see the overall problem of crime and lack of security. You are ostriching, considering and highlighting in society the view that high penalties on their own bring down crime, while you know that this is not evidenced by case law anywhere in the world. You are following the easy way, as it were, of satisfying what society, the world, the many, because you do not want to take on the educational role that a government has to have in a modern and democratic state. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that many of the provisions are correct and, of course, we will respect them and vote for them. Strict penalties that really need to be carried out must be imposed in cases of rape, domestic violence and other serious acts. They're positive. However, we must not forget the real stake here, we must not disorientate ourselves, because we all know that criminal repression is absolutely essential, but it is a final stage in the process of dealing with the social phenomenon of crime. That is why the modern democratic state must also have, not only penalties, but also a modern and effective framework of anti-criminal policy with an emphasis on prevention, social cohesion, education, with deep areas on the basis of social coexistence. We need a reform from the bottom, also studied on the basis of international anti-criminal policy standards. Of course they need penalties and strict penalties. Criminal hell is necessary and the functioning of general and special prevention in the field of criminal law must be safeguarded. But that is not enough, Minister. It is necessary to see the situation and the functioning of Greek prisons again. The penitentiary system is suffering, without central planning, without provision for the future image of the penitentiary stores, which are already charged with overpopulation of detainees. And all this, while the Justice Department ignores the need to adopt a new Penal Code. Since 2011 this reform has been pending when the last PASOK government has set up the Legislative Committee. Ten years later, we are still waiting for progress to be made with responsibility for all the following governments. We insist on the need to modernise the penitentiary system with effective penalties for serious offences and, at the same time, on strengthening and implementing alternative methods of criminalisation, as is done in every prosperous state of the 21st century. Finally, let the government ensure that the institution of social benefits is activated, which has been suspended by itself and still remains fully inactive. When will there finally be any progress in this matter? How do we expect to humanise our prisons when we close our eyes and accept that thousands of prisoners are stacked for not being disturbed or even less serious crimes that could otherwise carry out their sentences? Finally, what penitentiary system are we talking about, when even this concept of penitentiary remains called for? That is the question: Is there a penitentiary or just punishing logic in the Greek penitentiary system? Is there any care to improve and, in particular, to reinstate the prisoner in society as a whole? Unfortunately, we fear not, and certainly not, that this draft law does not address the problem. It does not see the great picture, it is enough for interventions, other necessary, completely unfavourable and dangerous. One cannot put it in a coherent way at the outset, because quite simply the bill is lacking - in introductory terms - 'principal'. It is simply a sum of bricks and cherries which responds to a purely communication management of the news, which, of course, finds us, as we have said, in a number of respects. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to focus on Article 36 on the amendment of Article 191 of the Criminal Code on the dispersion of false news. This is an unacceptable provision, in our view. I say this, knowing of the damage that all these anti-disciplinary articles have done about conspiracy of some powerful people against humanity or about supposedly the risk of vaccines throughout the pandemic. We know that. We are all faced with these madness and we are, unfortunately, dealing with them every day in trying to convince those who are misled to follow the path of science and choose to protect the vaccine and not spells and various suggestions. However, that provision does not justify the legalisation of censorship. With this article you are on dangerous paths and you are putting the constitutionally guaranteed freedom of speech in serious danger. You are turning the offense of dispersing false news into an abstract risk crime, as it will no longer be necessary for the result of fear or concern to come true, but it will only be enough to allow news to cause concern and fear. It's about insanity. Do you know how many websites there are on the Internet that present the symptoms of simple cold as the most suspicious of the deadliest cancers? Obviously, all these websites have the potential to cause anxiety or fear. So, what are you gonna do? Are you going to start imposing penalties? Will these be feisty acts? You are talking about a breakdown of public confidence in the wider - in introductory terms - 'principal' viewpoint. How would you measure this breakdown? And besides, what are you going to do? Prohibiting the right of the opposite opinion? That is why, as expressed, this provision, if it does not change, is not the excuse for anti-invasives and for all the madness they support. Don't you know that science goes on and builds up the contradictions and conflicts through these challenges? Science does not need the Criminal Code and the ban on nonsense to go ahead or convince. Education is its basic tool and must be your tool. This is therefore a purely backward, fearful and, above all, dangerous provision, which must be withdrawn immediately. The tightening of the discharge in terms and an increase in the timeframe are positive. However, if in the years that remain incarcerated one does not receive the penitentiary that one needs, all these provisions remain empty meaning and will reach the point of being merely punishable. Our penitentiary system will not only be rectified through such provisions. You must be fundamentally interested and present an integrated reform plan for our penitentiary system. While insisting on legislating, dealing with society as an introductory - 'blood thirsted for blood', a crowd in a Roman arena, you will resort to communication solutions that offer nothing essential and solve problems. On the contrary, they create new, perhaps more dangerous. We in the Change Movement - I conclude, Mr President - will be the head of all kinds of efforts to modernise, speed up and improve the administration of justice, but we will also be firm in the face of any attempt to deceive public opinion by means of communications-type provisions which ultimately jeopardise the well-being and coherence of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u41	And I, Mr. Ahmet, for being in your time. Mr SYRIZA, Mr Spyridon Lappas, is now being called to Stepma. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. Impressive of the position of the previous colleague, excellent from the point of view of legal penalisation, and I say this in public. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the third legislative intervention of the New Democracy Government in the Criminal Code, in particular, to reach agreement. There is also a fourth with provisions concerning the creation of penalties, but of criminal law, which was in another bill by the Ministry of PDO, on the question of the conditions, conditions and conditions of transfer to the agricultural prisons and the permits of detainees. Another madness on a penitentiary level! Because such provisions relating to the creation of the sentence are also included in this bill, I bring back to my mind, I think of the government's criminal decision to extract - our country alone throughout Europe! - by the Ministry of Justice in the field of the creation of penalties, the third pillar of the system of awarding criminal justice, and to refer it to the Ministry of Civil Protection, i.e. to a Ministry of Security. So you understand the pillar of the creation of penalties as a security issue! But that's how you understand the Criminal Code, according to the bill you bring. You are interested, as you said, Minister, in an interview with you, two issues: security and no crime unpunished. Can you tell us a crime which is unpunished, in accordance with the current Criminal Code? A criminal offense! Where do we live? Where are you telling them and who are you telling, when the whole legal community comes up with what you're saying and what you're doing? Listen, there is a crime in Greece that remains unpunished! Which country are we talking about? Are we in Afghanistan or are we in Libya? There is a code and there are systemic provisions describing the crime and crime and the similar penalty. I have said this to the committees, and now I repeat it: there is no leniency or severe punishment in the history of humanity. There is only a fair penalty, which is based on the principle of proportionality and, as I have said before - that is, that of philosophers, the philosophy of Criminal Law - on the basis of both the principle and the leniency. I told you about Hans Kelsen, this great personality of the Middle War, which was in conflict with Schmitt, the other philosopher, also monstrous caliber, whose ideas were the basis on which the idea of Nazism was based. We're with Kelsen even though he's a simple liberal, not a left-hand intellectual. That's what you decide, that's what you do, that's what you say. Is it possible for the Minister of Justice to come out and say that the only objective of the bill is to restore security and to remain a criminal offence unpunished? If this is not criminal folkism, as a media lawmaker expressed, what else is it? I am becoming a legal officer and not a SYRIZA MEP, who is ministering to criminal justice for forty years at the criminal hearings. You come and say things incredible, as I have heard today. Forget the term "acceptable crime", it has been abolished when the death penalty has been abolished. Crime is simple, it's middle, it's strict. It's medium or heavy. There is no longer a concept of 'acceptable crime' in criminal science. I see it flooding the public debate, because you say it as ministers, and then you complain when the bodies of the legal community come and take you into the committees. You're complaining that they're supposed to be exaggerated toward you. It's not too much criticism, it's too much your decisions and regulations. Let's go down. So I said that today we are going to discuss the award of criminal justice. First of all, let me say something, so that I don't forget it, and I don't forget it. He said Mr. Karagunis for 191, how good it is. Mr Karaguni, please read the decision of the Scientific Service of the Parliament, which directly says that it is an anti-constitutional regulation, because it violates two articles of the Constitution, five and 15, Article 10 of the ECHR and Article 11 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. So I ask the Ministers and Government and Members of the New Democracy, where do you want to join in terms of criminal and political culture in Europe? Do you know that Greece, with regard to penalties and prisoners, is third from the end of the forty-nine countries of the Council of Europe? Can I tell you who's under Greece? Only two, Turkey and Albania. Greece has as many isobes as the five states of the core of the European Union, Germany, France, Switzerland and the Netherlands. Add the inhabitants of these countries, the population as a whole. They have so many isovites as only Greece has ten million. Today, you come here and want horizontally, on almost all the issues of felony, there's only one sentence, life, subtracting from the natural judge the sentence frame that has according to the Code of Criminal Procedure, the criteria that he has to measure the sentence. There is no horizontal requirement for the legislator to come and order the judge to "For this crime you will put this sentence, for that crime the other one". You are obliged to put a penalty payment in place so that the judge can move in accordance with the circumstances of the act, depending on his or her personality, before, during and after the act, if he or she restores part of the damage, etc. All of these are criteria, which play in the consciousness of the lawmaker and jump his thoughts towards measuring the sentence, the huge, the sacred work, after the first, which is the individualization of guilt. That's what you're not talking about. You want society to block it, pack it up by mentioning three - four incidents with the vitriol, as if the law were going to acquit the perpetrator with the vitrioli and did not provide the death penalty for the attempt, in accordance with the applicable Code. That's what you do, that's criminal populism, along with political populism at all other levels. After you have completely lost the game with the pandemic, you also bring this provision of 191 and you add two concepts that are unprecedented at European level. The issue of public health is the first. Whoever disperses news contrary to state truth, with the official public health truth and causes not just fear - that is to say, risk causing fear - but simply causing concern and not causing it, could be caused. Here your own man, who supports the bill, Mr Mylonopoulos, told you that the European Court of Justice has decided on numerous occasions that concern must be tolerated when he is strongly criticised. It makes sense, because when you make strong criticism, either in power or in a citizen's power, in a political opponent of yours, you will certainly also make sense. This cannot be surrounded by criminal sanctions. You do, as you do a lot of cases, contrary to the decisions of the ECHR. I'll tell you more below. So, what are you doing today? You come and make a general tightening, even in the misdemeanours. And I asked the relevant ministers in the committees. The provision for a flood, which is currently at least two years old, and which you are doing 'at least three years old', and can you tell me, on the basis of what study, what research, what criminal phenomenon helps and restores this, in relation to society? Nothing is, it's a blind, horizontal regulation concerning everything, crimes and offences, without an investigation, without a study, without a document or even a document from the committee making the code. There's no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's a bill made by the Ministry with the above scientists. I'll take care of them in any case. But a code, which is supposed to have a life of decades, because imagine that today we are talking about, in 2021, no case is tried by the 2019 codes, but by the 1950 Criminal Code, and even the crimes. Not one. The Ministry says this: we bring these amendments to the Code because we need to correct distortions, sins, mistakes, misunderstandings, ambiguities, discrepancies of the 2019 codes, as they were actually seen. I have called on the ministers and any fellow New Democracy lawyers to bring a decision, one numerical one, one, one, a judgement of the judiciary practice that had been tried by the 2019 codes and to object to its outcome. You don't bring and you won't bring. Because in the latest investigation carried out by the AAC had not yet been tried on any case with the 2019 codes. You say you will restore their application distortions. A false whole, a rhetoric, which has nothing to do with scientific rationale, scientific methodology and, in any case, scientific analysis. Because we are talking about a code - I told you in committee and I will repeat it now and in plenary - what is the Code? I invited Ioannis Manoledakis, a scientist of enormous size in the field of criminal science. ‘The codes are the most important product in the legislative process. It is a product of the Enlightenment and of the urban revolutions and was a product of the French Revolution of the highest state. The codes are a spiritual child of Enlightenment," Manoledakis says, "as two things presuppose." Listen to them, Mr Ministers and colleagues. ‘First, scientific methodology in their preparation and theoretical orientation’. Who's gonna do that? The legal community, gentlemen, legal schools, bodies of the legal community, the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, the Plenary Assembly of the Bar Associations and the scientific bodies set up by it, university professors and lawyers who have been behind decades of criminal law. They came as bodies and told you that with this bill, this horizontal, at all levels, tightening everything - some are not covetous arrangements, especially - you shrink the institution of the penalty as a self-interested penalty, you almost disappear the institution of the provision of social work and you have a perseverance for imprisonment, and of course life imprisonment in a host of felonies and you return to sin and the rotten project of 1950, which was a terrible, opiate, charitable, modernist, 1950-style law-enforcement, and became, in 2018 and 2019, the new codes and, in particular, where the committees started to form, a barberry. Why? Because the state when he listened to the media or the news or the juncture for a very tough crime came and legislated here, and a classic middle-weight flood turned it into a felony. And what did he do? He took it to the courts, where you have forgotten, Mr. Ministers, that in the courts and the malicious courts he serves one fifth of the number, in relation to the first instances and you are constantly transferring new cases to the courts. It is a discount the invention of the unilateral appeal, which a man may be tried 15 and twenty years ago, a man throwing twenty years in prison until 2019 and fifteen after 2019. We believe that only a multi-faceted instrument can impose such an exterminational penalty and not a judge, because human error is wrong, even in the judiciary. That is why there is the second and third degrees of jurisdiction to correct the errors of the courts of the former states. I was saying before that this huge piece of legislation of 1950, when it began to legislate with the news and the juncture, it became a rag, unfortunately. I told you: it's a discount to transfer matter to the Single Chamber of Appeal. It is a discount to refer directly to the hearings by way of the judicial boards. Finally, it is a discount that the state should simply exercise a policy of managing criminal justice. What was the result? To break down both the criminal system and the penitentiary, of course, which is the black spot, the mark of the Greek state in the European legal community and the reality. Now let's go and say a few words about the unexpected attempt. Unfortunately, time is running out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u43	You will also have the relative tolerance, Mr Lappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I would say - I am looking at Mr Karagunis, who is prosecuting the criminal law - the first prerequisite for culture, not legal science, Mr Karagunis, is justice and, above all, criminal justice, Freud said. This justice, if you don't rely on the theory, the analysis of your science theory, not just making mistakes, will not be inappropriate the attempt you bring back, but will be inappropriate all the project. So bring in the unexpected attempt. Now, listen, for the non-legislatives to understand. It says that a person who thinks he is punished has a criminal will to do an act, but the instrument he has to do is make it impossible. This was a provision, which had been in place since 1950 and became inactive for seventy years. In the seventy years there have been sixty-two references and five or six, I think, convicted decisions, and in the past twenty years no statement of decision. She was inactive. They were being shot uninterruptedly by case law, by science, and by theory. Now New Democracy brings it back. I'm just going to give the Minutes the studies. First by Ioannis Manoledakis: "The reinstatement of the inappropriate attempt is once again a removal from a conquest of Greek criminal science, which was the science of the objective unrighteous, that is, we overtaked the pathogens of the subjective, subjective visas for the individual and the penalty", Ioannis Manoledakis. I'm leaving that last one. Second, George Dimitris, professor at the Democritus University. Commenting on a decision is a catapult. But I'm not gonna read it. I'm gonna read something else. I will say after the name of the professor of the University who teaches the students and was "tecno" of Manoledakis: "In the case of the unexpected attempt" etc., "it is not by definition the penalty, as a disapproval only of the criminal will of the perpetrator can be interpreted". So, we're talking about a provision that punishes the mind. Who said that, it's a whole study? Lambreos Margaritis, Chairman of the Monitoring Committee on Criminal Law. I'll put all three in the Minutes. What we are talking about must be documented. Is there any document on the criminal phenomenon in Greece, research, research, research, committee, European Council? Just one. It is the expert report of March 2018 of the European Council. They came to Greece on site, they saw all the stores, they went to all the prefectures, all the appeals, and they created a terrible exhibition. What did they say? That, over time, in Greece, the criminal phenomenon is misunderstood. Greece has the highest sentences in Europe and all crimes, particularly serious crimes, such as homicides, attacks, sexual assaults, rape, robbery, theft, burglary, drugs, below average. And they said there is a terrible anti-corruption - evaluative anti-crime called it - to have all serious offences under the average European average, and to overhaul the sentences in a pillistic manner. As a result, of course, the collapse of the system of awarding criminal justice, where an appeal for criminal offences had thirty-fifths of cases to be tried and a case-file was carried by the cart, only one. And he had thirty-five. He went up the next day, went up and up a week and never finished a trialable. Mrs. Symeonidou-Castanidou, in her investigation a month ago, in criminal justice she goes to the police in the GDR and gets all the evidence in the last five years. Also, in all these offences we even have a further reduction in the Council of Europe report. What is the impression of society: that feeds society. The vitriol, Caroline. What makes criminal justice squeeze is the faults. Those of us who are lawyers know what it means to the three-member court or court of appeal. Forty, seventy, eighty cases in the bottle. The criminal courts are stirring up by the middle-weight and not by the felonies, such as Caroline, which is one - two flagic, important, undeniably. But you're acting like there's no prediction. Life imprisonment is provided by the Criminal Code today. But diagnosingly, for example, for imagine a child of eighteen - twenty years who kills his father, who tyrannized the child for decades, oppresses it, exalts it, slanders it, slanders it, deceives it, does not have the right beyond life imprisonment alternatively to impose a temporary sentence. No, you say, undoing what was made of pain and blood since 2010 with the committees and Manoledakis, Makri, Christoforos Argyropoulos, Symonidou - Kastanidou. So, and today you are not bringing us, Mr Ministers, a study to support what you are proposing, not one. In any case, because I am now speaking about the committees, says Makreis on 27 September in an interview, listen: 'Because I have had a great deal of experience, after forty years and I have come to the conclusion that the exercise of a criminal prosecution is a very easy case in Greece, I am very afraid that this arrangement will lead us to a dead end if it is finally in force'. I'll tell you where he's talking. 'If, in fact, it is taken into account', Mr Kotsira, 'that 70% more generally of the judgments delivered by the courts are acquittal', you are taking into account publicly in a number of your provisions as a criterion, for example. withdrawal of dismissal, not a judgment, let's say the judiciary in the felony or a judgment, brother, a judgment in a single court or three-member court, but only the prosecution of criminal law. In the hundred cases, the seventy will be acquittal, says Marquis, and that's disastrous. This is what you are doing and you expect the courts to then come to the judge to formulate new rules side by side, as he does in many cases, because the legislator seemed to choose the pillow sentences and reach the criminal system in a dead end, a collapse of the whole system, and later on, increasingly, the sentences of the European Court of Justice as a hailer. To close, Mr. President, we have institutions here. The Legal Association's plenary instructed Theme Wisdom to make a suggestion. He's catapult to select this horizontal lock. He's a catapult for 191. The Union of Judges and Prosecutors is here. I would like to say two series, a greeting made by the President of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors: 'In Greece it is, however, common to impose the worst form of politics, demagogy, populism, the findings of science. To guide it by demarcating from the outset the framework in which it is forced to move and exploit its conclusions only when they coincide with the predefined political objectives of government power.’ It's just a few days ago. I should like to close, Mr President, with a phrase to the ministers who like them anyway. The one who's my neighbor, the other is very sympathetic. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Mr Kotsira, I told you and the committees, and now you will again lead the criminal system to a dead end. After all, you have proved yourself to have a very long burden in the penitentiary system. However, you legislate. You say it'll happen after ten years, let the ball go to any hands then. That's what you're saying. Is that a consistent, responsible attitude of a government? So because you are both young politicians, I will repeat something I have said in committee, a word. Max Weber at a lecture in 2019 in Munich against students said: "I address the students, but I want them to listen from outsiders. What kind of man should one be to allow him to put his hand in the rays of history's wheel? Three things: passion, feeling of responsibility, honesty, boldness, measure. And what should a politician have to avoid putting his hand on the wheel of history? It is subjectivity, irresponsibility and convenience." Take note of it, then, and if you can fix what you can, it'll be a chance. I give the Minutes a study by Mrs Kastanidou, which still refers to an unavoidable time, Mr Kotsira - in 1967 on Psarouda - and emphasises: 'The inclination of our criminal law and, respectively, the burden of the criminal courts are taking on a problem and worrying nature so that both authorities and citizens are discomfortful, but also wondered about the role and the mission of criminal justice' and he says many others. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u45	Well, thank you very much, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u46	Not to say that what we say does not support! I close with this: Mr Athanasios, you know this problem, 465 is about transitional provisions. We have a recent decision, 4/2021. There were demands from detainees, saying that since after 2019, more than...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u47	You're not listening, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u48	There is a transitional provision in the Criminal Code and sets limits on penalties that can apply to a number of prisoners. There is a recent decision 4/2021 of the Ice Council of Parliament on this and it considered that a penalty imposed by the Codes prior to 2019 cannot be mitigated and that more stringent penalties were provided for after 2019, when it is irreversible and the Ice Bay House says, Mr President, that the responsibility must be put to the legislative authority. Only by amending the relevant article - rather, paragraph 2, Mr Kagarakouni - means - and even does a job at the same time by Mrs Symeonidou - Kastanidou, and says: "It is unfair..." - Listen, Mr Kotsira - "... imagine a prisoner having twenty years in prison for a crime, because ten years are foreseen in prison after two months. In this..." - says - "The state must intervene and balance the penalties." Take the decision too, take Mrs Kastanidou's work. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon Lappas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr President, I do not want to guess the evils, but as a man who disobeys criminal science, I would like to say that I am very afraid that once again the New Democracy Government brings draft laws, which are political decisions, without any scientific support, and I very much fear that in history the New Democracy will remain, that we are sending thieves to the tartars, but the bank executives are saying that they are in charge and that their affairs, the eighteen months for the frozen assets, the houses for which no decision is made, the provision of public work, we throw it on the tartars, and so for the white collar we are stumbling for others to death.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much. The reason is now the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Konnakas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me an initial comment on the amendments, because once again you have bombed us literally, eight to now and only three of the Ministry of Justice, Mr Chiara, and indeed in a code process. On the issues of the Ministry of Labour, our Member, Mr Christos Katsotis, will be present in detail tomorrow, but because the issues of accuracy and income really burn, the people's households, which are immersed in poverty, cannot show the frustration of the government's celebrity announcements on meeting needs, on these issues of heating allowance, while they are measures that move in the logic of redistributing income from the least to the poorest, and they cannot, of course, even touch on the phenomena of extreme poverty. The evacuation of energy costs is not treated with such benefits. If you really want to relieve people's households and prevent energy poverty, to abolish excise duty and VAT on energy and fuel, as we have repeatedly proposed. We have also tabled an amendment to this, which you have been deeply buried in drawers. Even for the most impoverished sections of the population, this doubling of the minimum guaranteed income for just one month is a temporary only breath, but it is evaporated by the scanning wave of accuracy that scans them. Now, the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure are perhaps the most multimodal piece of legislation in the last two years. In order to understand the nature of the changes made once again by the New Democracy Government to the codes, it is necessary to see, in addition to one of our meaningless dialkystindas, between mainly New Democracy and SYRIZA, the way in which the initial amendments to the codes were voted on in a really unacceptable procedure rather than five of the closure of the Parliament in June 2019, or an auction around the level of the sentences threatened and often under the burden of a charged topicality. When we talk about Criminal Law, we are, above all, talking about a system of rules of repression and deprivation of personal freedom at the hands of the ruling class, the strongest possible means of maintaining and enforcing sovereign policy that does not hesitate when it is necessary to baptise as criminal acts even the struggles of the working class and the populaces to which you are trying by many measures and various means to shield yourself. You need to see the basic axes which have been summarised both by the changes and the arguments, which each time they were accompanied by either the original codes adopted by SYRIZA, or by the extensive changes made to the New Democracy, in conjunction with a number of other legislations, in order to determine the common objectives, which they eventually serve. Even if the lights of publicity do not turn there, the first common aim is to tighten the noose around the neck of the labor and popular movement, preparing the legislative arsenal, which is necessary in conditions which are constantly exacerbating both the anti-grass attack and the equitable popular reaction that this causes. The dangerous expansion of the groundbreaking that New Democracy is doing today, substantially turning all the so-called commonly-called dangerous offences into abstract or potential risk, that is to say, making them more severe, not because of the risks that have actually been created, but because of an unreasonable and subjectively evaluated risk, comes following the enlargement and strengthening by the SYRIZA of these provisions, which have primarily been used to criminalise popular mobilisation. In fact, it has come to turn the anti-auction mobilizations into peculiarity. That is why, despite the general spirit that prevailed in the amendment of the codes for a general reduction in the penalties threatened, the limits on the disruption of a common peace, the blockade of communications, the disruption of a service and a number of other provisions, which are consistently invoked by employers and the state toward strikers, to pioneers of the people's movement. New Democracy has found the job ready for it and, of course, on the time you have taken, Minister, you will soon be able to criminalize smoking in the protests. What is this unacceptable addition to Article 272, which you have brought to the night amendment, which you have not even dared to place in the judgment of the scientific bodies in the debate before us? You say: "Whoever owns arson materials, while at a public meeting, is punished by imprisonment of up to 10 years". I mean, these are the amendments you make. What else will you think? Arson stuff can't even be described as the lighter, can I not tell you under circumstances? You systematically create a mechanism of official state provocation to wrap the world into a paper glue. Take back this disgusting amendment, which, together with all the other measures you bring, is really constantly betraying the intentions of your Government. So you are trying to shield yourself against every voice, which calls into question the dominant policy and the unacceptable reform of Article 191, which has been condemned by all of us by the directions and scientific bodies for the risks, which has such a broad provision. Under the pretext of the various dark viewpoints and the offspring that reproduce around the issues of vaccination you have created a tire device that fits it all in: from health to national defense and the economy. In other words, the whole of the policy being pursued remains unavoidable with the threat of criminal sanctions if the publications - you say - are able to shake public confidence or cause concern or fear. What truth will it consider the permitted concern measure that is causing a news breakdown of the public's average confidence in dangers, for example caused by the country's involvement in NATO's aggressive plans, in the European Union's aggressive missions, or even in the dangers of the criminal deterioration of public health? Or do you think that even these darkening, irrational views that are reproduced can be eliminated through criminal repression, when what gives them food is your own governmental relics and contradictions in the management of the pandemic? This opens the way, and with this objective responsibility of the owner and the publisher of the media that publishes the news for even greater censorship of the press, even with persecution following the unacceptable arrangements of the terrorist in culture, of course, on the basis of the European directive which all the other parties supported. It is not, of course, the only time to dress up on the mantle of necessity - for people's freedoms - repressive measures, with which the terrorist is constantly enriched from both New Democracy and SYRIZA, who previously recognised their risk and said that it would abolish them. Not only did he abolish them, but he boosted them with a lot of guns. It's not his only turn anyway. He once recognized the danger of the hood witness's institution, which under the veil of anonymity can wrap the defendant in a glue without being able to defend himself. Now it's shattering with the New Democracy to defend this institution. This common aim was therefore also served by limiting a number of the defendant's rights. Perhaps the most emblematic - in terms of its reactionary content - of provisions which New Democracy has maintained intact from the codes of SYRIZA are the inspiring institutions of criminal negotiation and conciliation, the criminal order which in practice shrinks the presumption of innocence of the defendant, the institutions of reactionary and inconsistent with fundamentals - is assumed - to be the principles of law that turn the search for the essential truth, the social question of investigating the execution of a criminal act, into a bargain for the height of the sentence between a prosecutor and accused behind closed doors. Negative to the defendant is also the change proposed in Article 224 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, since the proposed amendment can now be taken into account for the guilt of the defendant, without the source of the information being named. It is simply enough to be accompanied by other means of evidence. In fact, it opens another door to exploit anonymous testimony, which cannot be easily crossed. The changes in Article 201 relating to the process of obtaining DNA during the self-declared procedure have also been taken into account, where, in fact, such an instrument has been used in a variety of ways and in the best way by the police, more characteristic of the recent case of Herianna. That is why, and with an amendment we tabled to the previous government, we have provided for the need to limit the use of this instrument exclusively to abuses, including violence and crimes related to sexual freedom, to strict observance of all procedural guarantees of safeguarding and destroying such a sensitive instrument. Mainly identification of DNA in evidence, spaces, etc. We intended not to be used as the only evidence to support the category. SYRIZA then rejected the amendment and today the New Democracy refuses during the process of the accused to appoint a technical consultant, and the process of destroying the genetic material archive is also opaque, which, apart from the fact that it is now without a judicial officer, only the telephone notice of the person concerned, which cannot and can easily be proven for the destruction of genetic material. That is why the controversy that usually runs out around the level of the threatened penalties actually obscures the agreement on the overall reactionary nature of changes in criminal law. In fact, for many times the tragic outsourcing of news has been exploited to form such plating separatist lines. On the one hand, the Government is stirring up these changes in logic that it is stricter than the sentences for criminal offences, that it allegedly stops barbers' s releases and, on the other hand, SYRIZA presents the strictness of the sentences as a conservative choice of the government as a result of its extreme right-wing ideas. However, it was so reactive that SYRIZA's logic was, among other things, a horizontal reduction in penalties, even for crimes of generalised social decency with hypocritical ultimately prediction as an alternative to social work, while at the same time not taking the slightest measure to implement this directly and substantially, leading to de facto suspension. Of course, the New Democracy has taken the slightest step towards its effective implementation, when it comes to modifying the framework in the event of poor implementation of the socially beneficial labour at the expense of the convicted person. Therefore, this cohortage around the level of penalties covers conveniently that horizontal increases or reductions are not in themselves a sign of progress or preservation, much more conveniently it covers that no amount of penalty in itself can prevent crime if it is not combined with a grid of substantial measures, on the one hand, prevention and on the other hand penalisation and reintegration. In other words, it should be part of a comprehensive anti-crime policy, starting with a precondition for reducing criminal behaviour, continuing a penitentiary process, which will truly be responsible for carrying out a criminal offence and completing its effective reintegration and support in social life. These are measures that can actually alleviate if you want society itself from these phenomena of crime. In any case, the modulation of the range of sentences threatened must be judged separately for each offence on scientific terms and not, of course, it must be rolled down horizontally, depending on current news. In a similar way, changes in the system of dismissal and restrictions on home-made punishment are being applied to certain offences, depending on their nature. Such a separation of convicted inmates on the basis of the kind of crime they committed, is completely unscientific and, above all, is the most persuasive confession of the failure of the penitentiary system. In other words, the question of the conditions of the actual creation of the sentence, namely the conditions of imprisonment, and the conditions of effective detention and reintegration of the convicted, is a repetition of the conditions for which neither the New Democracy nor the SYRIZA nor the other parties are responsible. The situation in prisons, with the responsibility of all governments, remains explosive, due to overpopulation problems, lack of medical scientific and penitentiary staff. What, then, penitentiary procedure, can be followed in a boiling pot? Finally, all these fragmentary measures to tighten the conditions for the dismissal of licences beforehand, in addition to their communication use based on the climate of topicality and beyond, are proved not only temporary and ineffective, but ultimately, with mathematical accuracy, lead to these unacceptable conditions, decongestive laws, which were initiated, of course, by the New Democracy and was then hidden behind the Law of Paradise, which also led to thunderless releases in the pile and in the same final cycle. In fact, this kind of controversy that is maintained around the issues of the effectiveness of Criminal Law deliberately highlights the result as a cause for hiding the true responsible. It consciously conceals the fact that crime is not a natural phenomenon, but a social phenomenon, which is not due to some antisocial behaviour, a certain pathology, say, developed by a particular perpetrator. It develops and manifests itself on the basis of class-separated society and human exploitation as a result of it. All these issues of topicality reveal, in the most persuasive way, the tragic deadlocks of this rotten exploitation system, which, of course, cannot be tackled by the various moves of impression. Poverty, unemployment, social marginalisation, deformity, values and standards that the capitalist way of production produces are the basis on which crime is founded. It is hypocritical, then, that you speak of all the urban parties that, with your policy, are actually accentuating the causes of it. When, for example, the commercialisation of the land itself operates arsonically, business plans for green bishops, the criminal depreciation of forest protection followed literally by all the urban governments, can you honestly claim that it is enough to tighten up the threatened penalties, this expansion of arson, to prevent forests from being arsonised, eventually smuggled by thousands of firefighters, when you arm the arsonist's hand? At the same time, to the issues that have been involved in recent years in the horrific murders of women by former or current spouses and their partners who are truly shocking, all confrontation runs out in the form of standardisation of the crime that opens up if you want a theoretical debate on dogmatic issues but disorientates the substance of the problem. As a JRC, we are unreservedly in favour of the stricter criminal treatment of all forms of violence against women. In fact, the wording of Article 82A as a prejudicial occasion for racist crimes, which is also provided for in the SYRIZA amendment, must be such as to facilitate the effective implementation by the judge as a whole of the crimes with such characteristics. And of course for the supreme legal good of human life society owes the highest protection. That is why the maximum sentences are correct. Therefore, a separate standardisation of the feminine offence could possibly open up a dangerous debate on different criminal treatment, so indifferent to the removal of human life, depending on the body which cannot be tolerated, of course, when it comes to the supreme good of human life. But ultimately, it is hypocritical that the confrontation with the wording of the law should be exhausted and that all urban governments should not be tempted to responsibilities over time for the absence of that support network which can help a woman escape a malicious environment, those supportive state structures, hostels, advisory centres fully staffed with the necessary scientific staff, not with the contributions of NGOs. Any legislative intervention you know well that it is not enough when a woman has to deal with many intentions until irrevocably condemned. From police indifference or arbitrariness until the undersubmitment of medical services, social services, as tragically confirmed by the majority of the recent incidents of women who had been directed to help the state before their tragic murder without result. No one is talking much more about all those economic and social coercion that exposes a woman to diversity of violence and insecurity. Strict criminal treatment of crimes against women in all its forms is absolutely essential and unnecessarily necessary. In itself, however, a strict penalty is not sufficient to break the vicious cycle of violence against women. The solution finally lies in the formation of economic and social conditions which allow them to stand on their feet handed out economic, social and psychological to be able to denounce, fight all forms of violence and also to be blocked by such pathogens. Therefore, any criminal regulation to deal with crime cannot be assessed abstractly but should be judged specifically in relation to the society implemented in general policy pursued. It is necessary, therefore, to eliminate crime, of course, to create a society that ensures universal access to labour, education, health, sport and culture. A society without exploitation by a person who will discipline and its members in higher moral values of unselfish social solidarity. This society is not a socialist society, that is to say, a society, without the objective basis on which criminal behaviour is developed, but which has the direction of pursuing a penitentiary process that really disciplines and is completed with effective reintegration and support for the return of the proven causes to their normal social life. Thank you very much, Mr President, and tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Konnakka. The next speaker is the special speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr Hetas. Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, if I put a title invoking my press status or at some point write a book and I have the honour of attending there, I would like to put: 'Kostas Tsiaras, lost opportunities'. This would be the title 'Lost Opportunities'. You know, Minister, what's bothering us most? Today we will explain to the world, to those who are watching us and those who will see us shortly later through social media, from where we can project the positions of the Greek Solution. You know, you're cut off for freedom of the press, but we're excluded. We're not talking on the channels. That's not what you're interested in. I'll see you later. The world will hear today why the Greek Solution is voting against today's bill. I'll try to talk. I have the peculiarity today of not being a legal person. I'm one of the few, probably not legal. So I'm gonna try to be more communication with the world. To understand what the Greeks and Greeks are voting for today, what the government brings and how the government presents it. Because you are victims, Minister, of communication. All you care about is communication, supposedly. How we're gonna get through this to the world. What does New Democracy say today? “I bring a bill of hardship. I bring a bill nothing to do with SYRIZA's and I come to shake the water and enforce the law and order." That's what you say. People listen to his problems and say "bravo to Mr. Tsiara and Mr. Kotsira. They do their job very well." If I had a chance to listen to me, and the Minister would have been even better. Thank you, my colleague. It is not elegant to turn your back on a Member who speaks and suggests.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u53	When we talk...(not heard), you won't comment to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, you are imposing order because there is disrespect for Parliament here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Tsiaras can hear and speak. Don't worry. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u56	I can't see backwards, Mr. President. Let's go down. Because your whole project, Minister, is a failure I want to tell you one more thing lately. Do you know the phrase "he was hardened and called Vitam"? That's right. Because you're selling too hard, but people will understand what you didn't do today. So listen, Minister, what you have not done. Why don't you vote for the bill? We're responding. What you didn't do. In the bill - starting with the koruna - you do not legislate on the actual creation of life imprisonment. For the Greek solution life means life. Neither sixteen nor eighteen have you done now - I say, sixteen have done so - and in seven, eight years the isovite has come out. Especially for criminals who hurt our children, people who can't defend themselves, the real life is the right penalty. It's over and out. We cannot say that more clearly. Life is life. Question: Have you brought life? Answer: No. So you failed. Let people hear that. So that the monsters may not raise their hands again, but that someone else may not think of doing the same. This is the deterrent value of a sentence. What didn't you do, Mr. Chiara? And you did not tell us in committee, and I challenged you to say so. You have not reinstated Articles 198,199 and 201 of the Criminal Code, which, of course, the SYRIZA Government that you so accused so much, but you are doing almost the same. What didn't you bring back? For blasphemy, for devouring religions, for engaging the dead. And that's why you need two years to study them? You had two and a half years. It is not enough time to say "let me bring this back", since you want to show that you are defenders of law and order. You're tough people. Repeat them. The Left - if there is this Left - abolished them. You don't change. You dare not change the defense clauses for the victim. Listen, this is important. Here we see the perpetrator breaking doors, windows, threatening civilians and finally being arrested, persecuted, trying to dissuade the attack and defend himself and protect the family. Let's go down. You're not stricting the penalties as long as you need to. The fact is that in serious crimes penalties should be even more severe. I would like to mention: crimes such as rape, forest arson, abuse of embezzlement, trafficking, masturbation. The sentence should be life sentenced alone. But you too, the government of law and order - but, Mr Chiara - for explosives, for the molotov bombs you did not change the perpetrator's impunity if he goes and delivers his arson material with his will. SYRIZA changed that. Why don't you bring them back? Why don't you bring the law and order back? I have not heard you, Mr rapporteur, say anything about it. Where's your ideology? Where are your beliefs? Why don't you bring this back? Let's go down. What did you do now? Remove the distinguished, more stringent variation of the theft by burglary. Why? This is where the burglaries in houses have no end. You have legislated on the irresponsibility of the banks. In the malicious infidelity against the banks you have enacted the obligation to incriminate from the sufferers. In other words, the banks themselves as represented by their executives should turn against other members. You have legislated on the irresponsibility of the members of all the special committees. Good. You did this and you say that you are tough and that you would change what the gentlemen did from here, who last day came before the elections and changed the Criminal Code. Let's go to SYRIZA now. You breathe. You changed the last day before the House closed the Criminal Code, making many felonies misdemeanor, leading many serious crimes to have been filed and released by criminals. The country's full, we all remember it. ‘Advanced and CIA’. There was a trip out there. Also, active bribery made her a wound. Even building and using a bomb molotov from a felony you made it a wound. We'll pet our little kids. Bomb that kills people, you made her a simple blow. Does people know about this? Because at the end of the day you will go out and tell us how harsh or humanistic you are! And now we have heard the committee and the other one, and I have to say it, people must hear it. What did SYRIZA say to the committee? That the rape of a 15-year-old and the rape of a young person is not the same thing and should not be punished for life by the perpetrator in one or another. One is a stricter case. Great stuff! Terrible! At the same time, however, you, the leftists, complain that the perpetrator who is twenty or twenty-one will not be able to go to the special detention store for young people, but will have a reduced sentence. Here the adult criminal is immature and innocent, but the rape victim is seventeen years old. Terrible discrimination. Mr. Chiara, Mr. Kotsira, what really to do with the crime that has been hit red throughout the country. We see whole regions, neighborhoods, people fearing life, his property, his life. And we're not talking about a small or medium-sized violation or crime. The truth is that thefts, the robberies are constantly growing. I'll give you some information from the Greek Police to see what kind of world we live in. And, unfortunately, the murders have also increased, mainly of women, who are succeeding in each other. And despite the limitations you've imposed on Lockdown and so on, it's lost its sense of security. The day before yesterday, you saw what happened in Thessaloniki. They murdered a poor biopatient in the shop just before his night shift was over. Where is safety, where is the protection of citizens? The citizens who work honestly every day, who are in the fight for the party to keep their family upright. The criminal is coming, he's killing them just like that and he's leaving. Crime is increasing as well as domestic violence. Minister, according to official figures from the Greek Police, ladies and gentlemen, in 2020 we had a hundred and fifty-four thousand four hundred sixty-six violations of the Criminal Code to the extent of a crime or misdemeanor. The offences against property, thefts, the robbery, etc., were ninety thousand four hundred seventy-eight of which remained unforgettable the eighty-four thousand. Nothing! In our homeland, we have two hundred fifty property violations a day. Today's Wednesday, two hundred and fifty will break into houses. It's police statistics. Two hundred fifty a day. We're playing the odds. Next one will be us! It's very possible with those numbers. The crimes against physical integrity in 2020 were seven thousand five hundred sixteen. Violations of drug law thirteen thousand four hundred and fifty - eight, thirty - five drug violations a day. Today is the neighbor's child, unfortunately, tomorrow might be ours. And be careful, these numbers seem great, refer to a year when incarceration, which the other one is home for several hours. But you, Minister, have thrown eight thousand policemen instead of protecting the citizen, hunting people for masks and vaccines. Eight thousand policemen are on the streets doing masks and vaccines checks, while thieves and crooks and criminals go into the house. Eight thousand policemen! Does Greece have the luxury of having eight thousand police officers to check for the vaccines? Cops are for another job. It's not about all the business. Don't make them happy. Don't make up their role and the enormous offer that Greek police have to offer to society. Now let's go, Mr. Carraguni. I heard you before about the famous article 191 of the Criminal Code. What is, ladies and gentlemen, Article 191 of the Criminal Code? It's the dispersal of false news. How's the government, ladies and gentlemen? It shatters freedom of speech, clearly, without populism. We'll explain what we're talking about. Is it possible, Mr. Karaguni, to speak of antipopulation specs in Article 191 of the Criminal Code? So, you deny that you're sneezing the world -- I'm going to explain why and how - and that it's specs and that part of the press is reacting? What portion of the guy's reaction? The authors' association came here yesterday and took you down. Which part of the press? Of course, you have also joined as puppets you handle your own channels, which is the majority. If you tell them "fuck" they'll jump. If you tell them "eat", they'll eat. That's what the channels and the press are gonna do. But here we are talking about freedom of the press. So what are you doing? You open the device and widen it vaguely, so dangerously without diagnostic criteria for what false news is capable of causing fear. Because until we've had the cause. Now we have the'may cause' ones, that is, it can. And who's gonna judge that? We'll see. And not only are you afraid and concerned to be able to cause you will find yourself indicted, as is the provision made by Mr Tsiara. In the first committee, the first conversation we have told you is that if you do not change this provision we will eat our mustaches. That was our first conversation. Four committees have been closed, we are in the plenary process and we will be voted on tomorrow. Make sure you change it. What voices will be limited? Do you know what voices? Those who criticise your policy, those who criticise the management of the pandemic. And why should he be punished, Mr. Chiara, the owner of the media? I told you yesterday. I've got a show, Antonis Mylonaki has a show, and he's calling you tomorrow on his show, and you're throwing two rockets there, and they're suing you. Will the producer or owner of the instrument pay it? For what? Tell us why. What reason does that make? Tell us to understand. Listen, you're saying there's people who drag people into the pandemic, not to get vaccinated, not to put oxygen, etc. If you have found this, take care of electronic crime in cooperation with them and find and do whatever you think. But you can't because there's a bad thing to hat all the guy and work against freedom. These are dangerous things and they are at the expense of public dialogue, freedom of expression, information and the press. Crime is not only false news, which can cause fear, but also those that can cause concern. It's all inside. And who's gonna decide? You told the committee - and people hear that - that you are not going to squeeze the press and that you will not allow this. I told you this: that tomorrow you may not be Minister, you will not be. So if we're victims of this case, we're going to look for Chiara and say he made an oral commitment that we're not going to be chased? Law, scripta manent, paper, Mr. Chiara. What does the law say? The law says that, we're done, freedom goes. So whoever says publicly, for example, that he has a government that is not good, which does the opposite to what he said, which has deceived the world, which is monitoring the developments that have failed miserably, and so on. What are you gonna do? Will you lock me in? You're gonna smack me for this? And what do we have to do? Can we applaud you? Let's move on. Move and legislate once again for reasons of amazement, to show work and that you have heard society. You don't listen to society, but society wants it. Society wants what we say. The truth is, you never heard of society. You have heard it very little, there are few interventions, underneath the expectations and needs of Greek citizens. That's why I told you this was another lost chance. We told you the same thing about the Criminal Code a year and a half ago, when we had great expectations. We were waiting for the Criminal Code bill and for the severe penalties to be tightened up and with the hope that they will be tightened up as much as you should, but you have disappointed us. You promised law and order, and it seems that as a number of other things were hollow words about you and promises. As it was, for example, the shame of the Prespecies, who, as a opposition, had been protesting out of hypocrisy on the streets and when you became government, found it a nationally advantageous agreement and many other hollow words from the start. You've been in the government for over two years. We pointed out that penalties should be tightened up, criminal treatment changed to crimes. So, Minister, and do not tell me that you are not dragging behind developments, that serious crimes should occur and see the light of publicity all the things that have been done lately, that society should be so noisy that the government can act?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u57	Fast and contradict.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u58	I'm not fainting and contradicting, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u59	But you were saying before.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u60	Yesterday I told your committee that we should legislate... Listen, we say you're stricting sentences, but not as much as you should, because you don't have life for bad crimes. I've said too much just today to understand the whole world. I told you that you are a very 'light' in front of what society hopes for, especially for children, Minister, for these innocent creatures that criminals take advantage of every day. They must not be punished for a felony, but for life, Minister, because one who will rape a child, a pedophile, in eight years will be out with your law. Are you telling the world that? 'Cause the eighteen years of life are so many. Are you telling the world today? That the pediatrician will come out, who should never see the sun light again. That's why we don't talk about paedophiles, there's no paedophiles, there's paedophiles, no perfect ones. They're beasts that should never see the sun again. Finally, in addition to what I am telling you about tightening the penalties: speeding up the administration of justice, strengthening the courts with officials and judges, where necessary, strengthening the courts with logistics, direct measures to create suitable facilities for penitentiary institutions. What did we hear from SYRIZA? We don't have room in prison. And as you now do the Criminal Code, you say that they will sit more in prison or be arrested more. And where are they staying? Are we serious? Why don't we catch the criminals, why don't we have no prisons? What else are we gonna hear in here? We'll build prisons. It is not possible to give millions of euros and Mr Mitsotakis is being taken over that we have the best structures for illegal immigrants in Europe - so he said yesterday - he said 'we have the best structures for immigrants', to spend millions and not to have prisons. Making penitentiaries, I don't understand. That's all the money you give. Instead of giving it to the channels, give it there. You give millions of euros, 80, 90, 100 million. Make prisons, not leave out those who kill, rape and steal because we don't have prisons. Minister, we really wanted to vote in favour today of a bill containing what we believe, which we unequivocally support from the first day, what is in our programme, that is, true law and real order. The rest, yours is all incomplete, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr. Heta. The reason is now the Special Rapporteur of Mera25 Mr Angeliki Adamopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President. One of the questions that we have to answer with regard to today's bill is what one of the main tasks of our legal systems is. One of the main tasks of legal systems is the introduction of rules of law, which regulate the behaviour of citizens in organised societies, but also ensure the consolidation of stability and the duration of this legislative framework. It's so-called legal certainty. Legal certainty is neither a luxury nor something that we have the discretion to decide whether or not we want to apply it as a principle when it applies to all modern advanced states. This is really one of the basic principles of a responsible rule of law, a central assumption not only of modern legal traditions, but also of European states' justices, but of a central assumption both domestic and international case law, and most importantly of all, when we talk about very key, very centrally and gravitating legislation, such as our Criminal Code, any modifications and any new ones should be a product of multi-month duration, not to say years, processing, it should have taken precedence over the collection of scientific data, the scientific documentation of necessity which requires precisely this amendment and, in any case, a serious dialogue with all the relevant bodies. So it is a product of scientific methodology and serious consideration. Two and a half years have passed since the 2019 Criminal Code was amended, and within these two and a half years three waves of changes have already been made, which always go hand in hand with developments in news. That is to say, this piece of legislation, which is neither serious nor responsible, comes to be a piece of legislation at the request of the public. This, as I have said in committee, moves to the limits of criminal populism. So I ask again: have all these codes been tested by court practice? Have they been legally tested to draw any conclusions in relation to their effectiveness or ineffectiveness? We have detected and noted at times the failures and errors of the 2019 Criminal Code. These errors, however, do not in any way justify such radical changes that you bring in this bill, or some kind of corrective action could be taken. In no case, however, can I repeat that such major changes are not justified with which you really want to do what you want to do, Mr Ministers, are to impose the government's ideological stigma. And this is a truly dangerous political option instead of courageously climbing the Step and saying: What do we want to do against crime? Do we want an anti-crime policy that tackles the criminal phenomenon, or do we want an anti-crime policy, which - I repeat - is affected by the legal sense and is trying to addict public opinion with anti-scientific perceptions, with concepts that have no scientific basis and which erod the common conscience? I will repeat to you, and the other colleagues have told you, nowhere in international literature, and in no book is there a scientific opinion which accepts that by stricting penalties we have less crime. And if there's such a source, I'd invite you to name it. They are obsolete concepts on an ideological basis. You want to pass just this account of you in common consciousness. And that is why I would say that at the end of his speech, Mr. Undersecretary, Mr. Kotsiras yesterday, I would apologisely say in place, he said at some point that 'at this time we can do'. Because I do not want to misunderstood so-called, I would ask you to explain what you meant to say 'at this time we can do', because according to my interpretation it is rather what you want to give and pass as a message is that at this time we can do to mitigate the public opinion that is boiling and satisfying the legitimate feeling. I repeat this is an unscientific and inefficient approach, which disorientates public opinion from the core of anti-crime policy, from the essence of anti-crime policy. In any case what we are all asking is security in our society, whether it is a sense or a reality. In any case, then, it is a question of reducing the criminal phenomenon as far as possible. What, however, imposes a holistic approach to anti-criminal policy? It requires us to focus - and I repeat what I said to the Commission and let me become tiring - on prevention, that is to say, to activate the reflexes of the prosecution mechanisms as quickly as possible when complaints are made, for example, in police departments, so that police officers are not restricted - according to the Code of Criminal Procedure an investigation body is also the police - to report directly to the public prosecutor and not just to record and have a report of incidents that is entering the drawer. So the prosecution mechanisms should also be trained accordingly so that they can intervene in time and immediately. We should activate mechanisms for effective support for victims and detection of crimes. However, I repeat that these are all measures that you are constantly postponing, because they obviously do not move in the sphere and logic of the arena, which is just thirsty for revenge and a rewarding response to the crime. These are measures that want to be hard-working, and they want to allocate resources. And yes, I will repeat that you have prioritised the allocation of your target resources by direct assignments, with "Petsot" channels, with slow wages of blue executives instead of focusing on a social problem, which should be addressed globally, multilaterally and definitively. I'm going to ask the following question. What can unilaterally make it the severe punishment of a woman who falls victim to domestic violence or a child of sexual crime? I am not against the tightening up of these crimes, because I have said so from the outset that I am not being held horizontally against strictness. In these crimes we may be discussing it because we are talking about a vulnerable category of victims who cannot defend themselves. I will accept that tightening does not violate the principle of proportionality. But what does the woman who has been the victim of abuse and the child who regularly accepts and for years of unspeakable acts unilaterally when those people all these years do not have the necessary support of the state? Do they have the necessary help to get backing and protection to the competent authorities? No, they don't. We are talking about subordinated social services where social workers are called. I want to know the work of the social workers, because these people are doing a spectacular work on their own many times even at risk of their job, they offer a very large contribution and a contribution to the work of the prosecutors. We cannot, however, expect people who just because they show an exaggerated zeal in relation to the function that they honour themselves without the necessary structures, without the necessary prevention and care of the state, without the necessary training of police officers and the training of teachers when tracking a abused child must intervene in time when they detect that a child is in a malicious environment being able to intervene without fear of punishment and loss of place. These are interventions, they are measures which you must take immediately to support psychologically and socially the victims of these acts before the evil occurs and not to advertise that stricter penalties are the only solution to the problem only because you want to work on the timeliness for micro-political reasons. And this tooling, Mr. Karaguni, is a spec, because you talked about spit. This one, if it's a spec. I am referring to Article 191 in relation to the dispersal of false news. What are you doing here? You criminalize not the real challenge of fear, but the potential to cause concern for the public, an indefinite number of people and the possibility of disrupting confidence in areas such as public health from dispersal of false news. Why? Why do you do what the Association of Judges and Prosecutors has told you that you want to impose your own account, the state truth as a heartless and undeniable truth, and to prosecute, to fade any other opinion. Move into a framework for a full exam of the Middle Ages. Your Criminal Law, as they have told you, is slipping under criminal censorship law and criminal law, and even darkening views should be dealt with rationally, with scientific documentation, with education, not by punishing, not by suppression. So your purpose is that you only want to hear your own account. You do not want any negative criticism and questioning topics of major social interest to be heard, such as the question of the management of the pandemic. Because even if someone comes out and expresses a criticism not only of the vaccination issue but of the way you manage the pandemic, in that so long we have seen hospitals being swollen and weakened, that there is no intake of medical personnel - when we called on you to oversee the private sector, you deafly, you have left the health workers, so people who come out in the media - with this provision, even this kind of criticism, will come to the point of punishing it, on the pretext of causing concern to the public. I move on to subsequent provisions. I will not go back to the issue of reintroduction of the provision of unforeseen attempt. I analyzed it in committee. A very important change is that in relation to the issue of corruption, where are you doing here? You want to discourage the responsible person of an act, just before he testifies with his own will to announcing this act. And you do this, just to block the disclosure of such crimes, organised crimes with interdependence with underground circuits. You want to rinse scandals that also concern topicality. So what do you say? That he will not remain unpunished, as he has done so far, but will be punished with a reduced sentence. In no case is this an incentive to open this man's mouth. The Secretary General told you, too, from the Union of Greek Ponicologists, Mr. Janetis, that the only way to break the veil of silence is impunity. Otherwise, all these crimes will be buried. I repeat that the case of the abolition of the aggravating circumstance of theft, of the distinguished theft by burglary, with the reasoning - you say - with the utterly pretextual argument, which I would say goes far beyond underestimating our intelligence, that we cannot - says - define the burglary. In other words, the breakdown of public confidence in Article 191 is defined while the judges and prosecutors have told you that it is a non-measurable size, but the break-up cannot be defined. You have so many excellent partners, Mr. Karagkounis also congratulated them on his speech. Couldn't one of these thousand postmans - do you have a perfect structure of four hundred or more - tell you what the burglary is? Where is the break-in being violated by a locked house, a locked house, without the tenant's consent? It's that simple definition. Why, then, do you abolish this provision when we talk about a crime, which is linked to organised crime and to occults, violates the private sphere and concerns the world more widely? I shall also come back to the issue of the withdrawal of redundancies. I would remind you that many detainees who had served part of their sentence, who have been sentenced irrevocably to sentences either temporary or life sentences, wanting to benefit - and reasonably - from the reduction of the maximum penalty thresholds of the Act of Friday, have asked for their release. And indeed it was accepted, because they fulfilled the conditions, they had shown good conduct. These people were released on the ground, respected all the conditions of their release, wanted to return to normality, to have functional living conditions. Many of them have found work, and on the subject of social reintegration and rehabilitation, this controversial decision of the Ice Region House, 4/2021, which stipulates that they should not be favoured, because the retroactive effect of the softer law cannot be applied and extended to the stage of construction, execution of the sentence after the irrevocable sentence, because this is an unauthorised interference with the work of justice, a decision which, in the light of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, can and can be called into question as to whether it is an intervention. In any case, I told you that you could amend Article 2 of the Criminal Code, so that these cases would also be included, and you should in any event have solved this problem in time, which has passed and reached the limit of targeting these people, reaches the limit of analgesia. You have been able to do so with an amendment. I should like to say about receiving the DNA, where you say that when it is conducted in the context of self-defence, it will not be compulsory to appoint the technical consultant, because the self-defense is an accelerated procedure and this can cause delays. To say that when a person is referred to under the self-determination procedure, he may also request a postponement of judgment. The postponement may even be given for a few days, which are sufficient to appoint the technical consultant for DNA analysis. There have been deferrals for up to twenty days because of the coronary. Or it may be referred in the ordinary course of procedure, to be tried because critical evidence has emerged, an important evidence, which can make a significant contribution to the course of the case. So this amendment is also wrong. As far as young adults are concerned, here you are really acting with irrational hardship, with an inflexibility that we cannot understand. Why do you abolish the possibility of a judge to judge from the circumstances at all times also from the personality of the young adult perpetrator, whose mental maturity is also a subjective element assessed by scientists, who may also have disagreement between them? So why do you abolish the possibility of a judge imposing the penalty on a special youth detention facility and say that they must be sentenced to the barbers' prisons, where they will be clearly confronted with barbers? You told us, Minister, that they would not be confused with barbecues. You mean you're gonna make a special wing? You mean to say that these people will be grounded in a separate place from the barbecue? Because if you say so, we will monitor the arrangements that you will have to bring in for these units. It is an extremely dangerous provision and it puts them at serious risk of relapsing. It is a deterrent of their social reintegration and their penitentiary. So I conclude by saying that especially in the context of the stricter penalties, given that we have anyway a pillowing in our sentences, which you will be causing is overpopulation, an even greater overpopulation. You will cause congested conditions and rapid deterioration of detention conditions, rapid deterioration of detention conditions. This will, of course, cause, as has already been done, the break-up of the country and its condemnation by the Court of Justice of Strasbourg, so you will be forced to seek and not bring decongested laws. In fact, while all this had been erected and pre-electioned as a banner narrative, it is a problematic practice to worsen detention conditions and overpopulation in prisons, now you are coming and undoing yourself and bringing yourself to the forefront of the same situation. I think you've really deprived of excuses. I'm done, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, too. I shall now give the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group the floor. Until the Step, Mr President, is ready to allow me to say something that has nothing to do with the bill. When the legislator - I say this in general - makes life imprisonment compulsory for certain offences, this does not mean that the courts are prevented from recognising alleviating and becoming a temporary sentence. After all, the harmonisation of the rules of the criminal state with those of the social state negates our right and, of course, the case law of the Greek courts. Mr Lappa, there are many judgments by the European Court of Human Rights which say that the national legislator cannot be bound and does not establish life sentences, without this implying that there can be no review of the sentence by the courts. That is why we have the suspension, we have the current condition of dismissal and, of course, the grace given by the President of the Republic. The President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thousands of years ago the great Uncle Plato wrote and said: "Good people do not need laws to know that they must also be responsible. Bad people are looking for the laws." So we have arrived at bad governments like yours, which make laws every six months and amend the Criminal Code. That's where we're from. How many laws have you brought here as Minister? We told you all along. Here, my dear Minister, you are hiding as government. Why, first, you legislate the impunity and now you are legislating to pursue the other view. To understand the contradictory many times what you do, what you do, what you legislate. We - and I - will not talk about what we believe. My speech today, Minister, will dismantle all the government parties and the crimes they have committed to Greek justice. So what does the European Commission say about Greece's position on Greek justice? I will present the entire report to the Minutes of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u65	What period is the report?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u66	September 2020. Not 2018, 2020. He didn't come out new. This is 2020. It says, therefore, that "Medium level of independence of justice. Incomplete framework of protection of witnesses of the public interest - Recalls "NOVARTIS" this, so that we do not forget - "...regardless of how to appoint judges. In the 17th place in the European Union and in the 60th world in the Corruption Perception Index, accumulated cases, urban affairs and commerce in about five hundred sixty days in 2018, four hundred seventy-sevenths in 2017, a reduction in productivity in the courts 87% in 2018 compared to 96% in 2017. Administrative courts, six hundred days per case in 2018.’ Minister, listen to me, because this is what the committee says about you. For bribery he says: “In November 2019, the changes to the offense of active bribery will be abolished, but all outstanding cases will be affected.” The bribes they stole are being released from New Democracy by means of beneficial provisions!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u67	We changed the law...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u68	You haven't changed the law. This is what the European Commission says. It's true for the earlier stage, I'm telling you. You're not listening, Minister. Here's the document.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u69	The last one...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u70	But you're the same. Minister, you're the same and I'll prove it to you soon. You're the same, unfortunately. SYRIZA and New Democracy underground are themselves. Where do you disagree? You tell me. Tell me where you're disagreeing. Do you disagree in the 'Prespes'? In Greek-Turkish with The Hague you disagree? In the economy with the memorials you disagree? You're the same on everything. Minister, you're a serious man, you're serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u71	That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u72	Yes, but you're conducting a Syrian policy, because you're a SYRIZA. And it appeared from yesterday's statement by the Prime Minister talking about progress, about your progressiveity. You're going in on SYRIZA's Central Left. Progressively, New Democracy, instead of saying "national, patriotic, philololololologue the New Democracy". [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] But it has the central left complex itself, the Prime Minister, and this is abusive to the general, Constantine Karamanlis. Minister, I have a report from the Hellenic Police on crime. In 2019, they were arrested by the Police and Port Authorities in total a hundred twenty-three thousand irregular immigrants versus ninety-three thousand in 2018. Arrested traffickers of irregular immigrants. This is a report by the Greek police, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes, because the Minister is questioning certain things. So it says that 50% of the crime in Attica comes from some Roma. This is what the police say: 'Some people'. This is a police show. He also says: "In particular, from the entry of Roma from other countries, who are stealing, devastated, killing". Aspropyrgos, Zephyri, Menidios, Ano Liosias, Agia Barbara and other areas have come, because there are others who are not controlled by the police and justice has made the theft of a crime and they are all gone out. Because I have heard many left-wings have a perception of studies and reports, who have said that "let me know a study that says that the strictness of penalties leads to the fight against crime", I will tell you, after you have requested it. When Draknis imposed his law, the crime was struck by Athens at the time. Do you want any more examples? Let me tell you more. Tell me what study tells me that immunity and lack of punishment from the state led to a reduction in crime. Which country? Then, drug dealers and pedophiles let them go. Then, all those who break down the Greek province, the Greek territory by thefts, robberies, murders, let them go, since there is no study. Let's actually go. I have the article "Kathimerin", the newspaper of New Democracy, on September 14, 2021, which speaks clearly about Albanian mafia that controls cocaine, Minister. And he says in it something strange, that many of the detainees, using the beneficial provisions of both the previous and the previous, are released or sentenced low. This is a patheticness of justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u73	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u74	I'll testify to these in the Minutes. I'm not talking about it. Listen to a statement in ifeimerida: "Shared to gangs by foreigners, the map of Athens". That's what your newspapers say. The ifeimerida is a new Republic, Minister. iefimerida and "KAFIMERIN" are your own literature and site. This is about a government that was elected to enforce law and order and you've done a mess of homeland. Not you, your government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u75	That's what we're changing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u76	Get out on the road to feel unsafe. Not with ten policemen running around the streets. Can we ask the guy who's in danger every day? I will testify, Minister, in the Minutes of the House from the 'First Issue' all the series of publications on crime in the country. This is a reproach for the country, to have the highest rates of crime from all Balkan and European countries in their quality characteristics. It's your forms, not me. Proposed amendment to Article 191, Mr. Chiara. This is where the gleedy begins. Who defines what "false news dispersal", "fake news" means? You have the Greek FLOWS. It's yours. That's what they've been doing all day. Your people are Alicos and his company, but on our own initiative, because you do not legislate, were called on Greek justice to apologize for the terrorisation of those who write what they write. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Listen to the concept: "They cause concern, fear, they impair public confidence in the economy, defence capacity, public health". And I ask you: Who defines all this? Who's the one who's going to determine if fear was caused to some? How many? In one, two, five, ten, fifteen, twenty-five? How many? Who defines it? Do you know what you're doing now? Well, you're actually making superstitious censorship. You're going to be North Korea, not to be able to talk if you don't have your point of view. And that's annoying. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] He says: “Since he causes fear in an indefinite number and shakes confidence in the wider public order.” Where did you see it, in which country is it written like this? So for the offense, friends and friends, first time the owner is punished. It's never happened before. It can't be done. The democratic right to freedom of speech is being violated. Do you understand, Minister? Because tomorrow you may not be Minister or that government, which will be leaving soon, will soon be gone. And another government will come that will sneeze you with your own law and you will then say: "Yes, but they are sneeze us." Yes, but you legislated. This is what is happening in Europe, because you have asked Mr Heta and I personally - and you are right - why we are not voting. Minister, do you know what the word 'Social' means in Greek? Mr. Chiara, you're a doctor, but listen to me. What does "soft life" mean? Punishment as man's life, man's or woman's. You sixteen make it eighteen years. I mean, in nine years, the pediatrician, who raped a six-year-old child, will be released under the law of New Democracy outside prisons between our children and our nieces. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So, life in Germany, Mr Chiara, because I know - what do they mean? It means at least fifteen years incarcerated, not seven and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u77	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u78	You have nine, Minister. Where do you say that? Half of it is in jail. It's not eighteen imprisonment normally.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u79	You don't know them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u80	Have good lawyers, Mr. Carraguni. You know, you're a legal person. In Italy twenty-one year in prison.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u81	No, that's not what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u82	Listen, Mr. Carraguni. Can I advise you something in law?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u83	It is a good thing that we do not have a dialogue, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u84	Half the sentence is spent by almost all these gents, by the bad guys. That's what you're gonna say, and that's what you're gonna learn. I'd like to give more examples for Britain. I'm with Britain, gentlemen. It may be outside the European Union, but I'm with Britain. What does incarceration mean? Until the end of his life. He's never gonna get out of there again! Never! When we say life, we mean life. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I would like to make two - three comments now to understand our ideological difference. Our ideological difference is based on a very important concept. We - and I will say this and let some of you - be misunderstood, nor do we hang out with drug dealers, nor do we make the brawls and slaves of those businessmen who are beaten up every day by the Greek people. And I'll explain to you what I mean. Democracy, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, was born in Greece. Democracy is not sneezing. Democracy is not blackmailing. Democracy in Greece is not threatened. You are this government where in an average Greek newspaper called "Dimoratia" - now hear to understand - Erdogan is suing and you are not pulling the ear of the prosecutor who has accepted this lawsuit. I read that she was accepted by a Greek prosecutor from Erdogan's side as a messenger. It says the complaint inside: "The aim of the detestable act of the newspaper is not only the face of our President, Erdogan, it is also the great interests of our nation that is firmly defended by our President in the Eastern Mediterranean, but also by the sea of the islands." This document was received by Greek justice, accepted by Greek prosecutors and promoted the law of Erdogan in the newspaper "Dimouratias". I'm not going to be a newspaper attorney. Listen! 'Sea of the islands'. A document accepted by Greek justice calls the Aegean Sea the sea of the islands! Our Aegean! That prosecutor had to leave his post. He had to leave yesterday! We are legitimate by the window of Turkey's claim to'sea islands' and not by the Aegean. Do you understand what you're doing? I'll tell you straight away. Many may disagree from here and I, with the view of the newspaper "Dimouratias". It doesn't matter. But freedom to write what it thinks, what it says, what each one of us believes will not be subject to the suffering of the courts, especially the fascist Erdogan, the naziist who has trampled any concept of international law. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So let's go to our presence, too. The mass media of the New Democracy dominate against the Greek Solution. It's for granted. We're used to it. They build up by ravages and uncomfortables and insulting and provocative. I'm not talking about being summoned. I'll personally say names. The "MEGA" I never stepped on. I have never set foot on SKAI for the last two years. In the 'STAR' I have set foot in two years. No one's calling us. We've been yelling for two years. But listen. Their attempt yesterday in the MEGA issue that was defective, disgraceful report against the Greek Solution personally does not make me sad. Oh, no. It was an occasion for the question I asked on the basis of the European Coreper report to ask the Prime Minister himself to tell me if there are any side effects from the vaccines, because they are not recorded as the EOF says. So I did not know the man that I should go first to Mr Marinakis, to Mr Malelis, to Mr Prateri and to Mrs Jima to ask for self-evident, self-righteous right to ask questions as a Member of the Greek Parliament and a representative of the Greek Parliament! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] It is certain that an orchestra of these dirty attacks against the Greek Solution is the accused of the mine "NOOR 1" and bears hope for the character of Vangelis Marinakis. He is, the man of your New Democracy and your best man, whoever arrogantly thinks he is ruling Greece, can regulate political situations, can put Ministers himself, can place general secretaries. So he - and every one - thinks that by such disgraceful methods he will overthrow the Greek Solution. The Greek Solution serves the citizen, society and nation and no Marinaki as the New Democracy serves and not the economic oligarchy and its political servants. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] As for the official journalists of the "MEGA", the chimneys of journalism Mrs Jima and Mr Pretenderis, I will simply say this: we remind them that crime is about moving heroin and not food supplements. That's our difference! I understand them. Boss employees are and they can say whatever they want. Who? Giannis Protenderis, the follower of the memorials, the country's enslavement to the foreign factor. John Pretenderis. After all, the only president of a party here who works and has businesses and workers Greeks who are actually living here, are speeches, is Kyriakos Velopoulos, and I will continue to work because that is where I earn money and not the few people. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Let's go to what happened yesterday and I'm very disappointed about what happened with the Dutch journalist. How serious is a state that lets everyone into the Maximus Mansion? How serious it is for him to leave a journalist in court - the lady was - to ask the Greek Prime Minister a question. How serious it is for the Prime Minister to allow an apology to be made to a court for the hospitality of illegal immigrants. I am surprised that the rest of the parties that came out to defend the sejudicial, Dutch, inside the Maximos Mansion, where the Prime Minister is not our Prime Minister, he is all of Greece, not of the New Democracy, are all Greeks. But what was more bitter about me is what the Greek Prime Minister said. The man was apologized. He said to her: "If you go to Samos you will see that the conditions are perfect. They were made with UN money, with clean facilities, with playgrounds." At the time, of course, when the Greek is hungry, in danger of losing his home, he said that immigrants are fine and illegal immigrants or refugees have a good time. "And they are not comparable..." - says - "...with what we had in the past." The Prime Minister said so. 'This is our policy and we support it'. What's your policy? Pick up each invader in structures and then leave to mainland Greece? 'I will not tolerate anyone swinging the finger on the government'. That is what the Greek Prime Minister said, and the neo-democratics applaud. I, too, ask the newly-democratic MPs. He shouldn't have said - the simplest of all - I will not tolerate any illegal intruder, no illegal immigrant. I will do pushback for national reasons, for reasons of safety and health reasons because of COVID. Because they're not controlled. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] But he's clearly not going to pushback. The Prime Minister has told us here that he will blunt us all. It's gonna get us in trouble. And I won't stay here. I read and see all the channels. We're going to health now, because I'm honestly disinformed. Morning - morning 'SCAI', 'MEGA', 'ANT1', all: 'Before the collapse of the ESS because of the pandemic, the MSFs are filled'. But they don't say that from last year until this year we have one third of the IFs. A third! They do not say that all this is logical because we have an irrational government. It makes sense why, first, you sent out doctors from New Democracy. Secondly, you in New Democracy did not do MDGs. Thirdly, you have not organised the NSRP. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] It's really a disgrace! It is a shame for everyone, a shame for us, a shame for each individual to die. Why? Why didn't you do I.T.? What did New Democracy do during the two years that he ruled? Because we have now passed in an election period, no matter what the Prime Minister says it will be closed for four years. Looks like in a few months, we're going to run an election. What did New Democracy do? The sanitary, along with the firefighters, whom the Prime Minister himself with the wife and the other New Democracy officials applauded, applauded, heroes - because they were heroes for doctors, nurses, administrative staff, firefighters - they were sentenced to parole in hunger, them and their children. They inhibited their very life's operation. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] What did they do instead? They didn't just starve them, but they were beaten. And hungry and possessed. They beat the firemen. Pensioners were deceived by New Democracy for two years. They were told that their pensions would come out right away. You know, these pensioners are our grandfather, they're our father, they're our uncle, they're our own people. Do you understand that he's waiting for the other three, four years to get a pension of 600 euros? Do you understand that? How will this retired person survive? Where's he gonna get the money to survive? You have destroyed the middle class and led to a crush, through the exploitation of the coronary, of many businesses. I'm telling you, as a businessman. Two-thirds of Greek businesses are at stake. Listen to me. You split the Greek society into vaccinated and unvaccinated, to hate the vaccinated one and the unvaccinated one, to hate one another, to swear one another shit, to say to him "to die." I can't believe it. And you also have journalists writing this unimportant, that whoever is invincible will not go to the hospital, as happened in Singapore. Shame on all of you, just to think about it, or just to tolerate writing this. Isn't it a make news, Minister? Is it make news or isn't it? Does the government intend to make the hospitals only for vaccinated? That's make news. A prosecutor why isn't he prosecuting this site, the TV he said? Why don't you kick them out?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u85	When did you hear that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u86	Yesterday. And today all the newspapers, your newspapers, say that there is this thought. Also, the New Democracy two years did not send the shameful Embassy Agreement to the garbage. And she didn't send her why? Because today Mr Karagunis and the ministers, sensitive people, ask Skopje not to change the Prespecies Agreement. They have become guardians of this treachery agreement. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] They are the same people who let the crows of the funds take the properties of the Greeks. Already four thousand first - house seizures are being prepared. So those who are afraid to come out of their homes remember one thing: that this law that the New Democracy brings today, this bill that the New Democracy brings, will create greater fear, greater terror, more theft, because neither the logic of repression has nor prevention. People are sick of listening to fairy tales, are sick of reading tubers paid by New Democracy. And their bosses are paid out either by advertising banks and not only by the well-known funds you give, advertising, so that there can be channels. Debt goes to 400 billion. And you're coming today to my right to speak freely, my right, as a selfish being, to have a judgment, a perception, a view, a thought to deprive me of it. This will be swallowed by the Greek people. It's insulting! It's crazy! It's insane! It's fascist! It's authoritarian! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And also, the economy, gentlemen of the New Democracy, collapses. I would like, Minister, when a party president speaks, to keep an eye on him. It is not possible, Mr President, to speak and listen to help from the side. It can't be done. I'm just asking you, Minister. And you know that I appreciate you as a man, because you are a chosen member of Parliament. A collapse, therefore, of society and the economy has succeeded in New Democracy. The economy is falling apart, the shops are falling apart, the businesses are'solid', unemployment is falling, the Greeks are going away and the new Greeks are leaving because the New Democracy wants it, we must be divided for an old embolism! You little punk! Because it's just that I'm going to take care of someone, but I'm going to convince someone else to tell him that the right thing is this and to get him back and force it. The action brings a reaction. Nature's law. Also - and I am closing here - ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I heard the Prime Minister take it yesterday that we have an increase in the incomes of the low-wage people. It's unbelievable! We're talking about 12 euros. You talk about 12 euros, 12 euros for the Prime Minister and me and many of you can be a breakfast that you eat. Twelve euros! Do you understand? And were the New Democracy MPs standing up and applauding the Prime Minister for 12 euros? We have the most expensive gasoline and I must be proud, namely, that we have the sixth most expensive gasoline in the European Union, over and above Switzerland. I don't know how to manage the thrill really! I'm very moved because I have so much precision that I'm a champion in fact! Such a thrill in my life I've never felt before! I'm a champion in fact, a champion in poverty! These are the achievements of the New Democracy. I shall submit the relevant document for the minutes. So the Prime Minister said that we should be grateful. Sure! If there was no government, he said, the PPC account would be ten times up. We're talking about an incredible situation. So we all need to light a candle on Sunday in the name of the Prime Minister, because sooner or later, the power will be cut off on everyone. But we need to light a candle, so that we can be thankful and not ungrateful. The government, which says it cares about the citizens, puts taxes on oil so that the Greeks can't get warm, puts taxes on petrol so they can't go anywhere, keep them closed in their homes, puts taxes on houses so they can't pay and stay homeless, puts taxes on food so they don't have to eat, and at the same time, it's worried that the Greek from a coronary dies. All of this is inconsistent with our own logic, all this is absurd - and I stress it - madly, they do not stand in our own intelligence. In closing, I'll give you two information, and if you want some of you can use it. Obama's book page 558 - I read it this way - about the crime he committed and the PASOK then and the New Democracy and then SYRIZA with the memoirs. ‘Germany has broken up Greece and Europe. In cooperation with Greek politicians they destroyed the Greek banks and thus the Greek state to save the German banks.’ When I said it as a reporter, I was a conspiracy. Obama wrote them in his own book. Isn't that what scares you in New Democracy? Isn't that what you're worried about? Doesn't that make you more skeptical about what the leadership of the New Democracy tells you? From this doesn't it seem that you are slaves to the German interests, slaves to the orders you take from the Germans, obedients and enslaves, to the Greek people who take measures undeniably? You tell me. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] But what do I talk about the three of you? There is a company called ‘LIDL’, which operates with thirty-three cod companies with the same VAT. Thirty-three companies with the same VAT rate, the ‘LIDL’, operate in Greece for tax avoidance, because there is no double taxation. That can't be done anywhere. Do you understand? And I as a velvet within a year my IRS checked me out six times. These, "LIDL", you never checked on them. The parent company - listen - "... & CIA UN" has three partners. And here - and I close with this - there is the following question: will any government go to check on the LIDL in German, yes or no? Will the competent bodies and the services from the ILO and the tax office be sent to check why the company has never made a tax declaration? Is any of you going? If it's done, bring us the evidence here, because there are no balances real. ‘LIDL HELLAS’, a German company. But where the German there and fascism, where the Germans there, where the Germans there and the obedients, the obedient Greek politicians, wrote and said Obama. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I too am ashamed of what the former President of the United States says, that Greek politicians with journalists who took them, did and wrote and did what the Germans said. Apologise to the Greek people and you and you for what Obama writes about. He's not a conspiracy officer. He's the former President of the United States. If you want to be the slaves of the Americans and the Germans, we will be for a life free for Greece and the Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Only please allow me to tell you about a report you have made, because it is outside the agenda, that in the legal states the presumption of innocence is a sacred matter, and it is a legal obligation for politicians and lawyers. So when a journalist, as you said, has no irrevocable judgment, visits any factor, especially the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister is obliged to respect the presumption of innocence. So it also happened with the Dutch journalist. Therefore, Mr Mitsotakis, as an institutional politician, had to respect it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the circle of speakers. Mr Consolas has the floor from New Democracy and immediately thereafter Mrs Anna Karamanlis. Here, Mr. Consola, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I listened carefully to both the committee and the plenary colleagues from all the wings of the House to develop the issues relating to the change of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. But I also heard Mr. Velopoulos before and I am glad he mentioned from the Step of the House that Kyriakos Mitsotakis is the Prime Minister of all Greeks. And I am standing here to stress that the Prime Minister of all Greeks and his Government are moving towards a great reform plan in terms of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, which reflects both the needs of the citizens and the common sense. We all know that in Greek society, which has been tortured in recent times by these cosmo-historic events and especially by the subject of pandemic, transformations and changes are needed. After all, social transformation is given to the reflection of the political system, which is why Mr Tsiaras and the State Secretary and their colleagues are moving on to this change, in order to consolidate the legal feeling in the country and, above all, common sense, but also to highlight the constants they need in the legal and penal framework, which have been violated by the laws of the previous government. I am referring to the Law of Friday. I do not think anyone is proud of establishing that law in the past period. From the Civilian Reform Party, in fact, there are colleagues who have hampered this reform. I would remind you of Mr Kontonis, former Minister of Justice, of this reform plan by Mr Paradise and SYRIZA. It was essentially a law of decongestion of prisons in his logic that, since we are not able to create new penitentiary systems and new penitentiaries, let us release the prisoners. But is that reasonable in a European state? The worst thing, however, is that the release of prisoners has also included prisoners with criminal responsibilities and sentences of imprisonment over ten years. If you read the daily press of all the wings, which expresses the ideological and philosophical view of all the wings of the House, you will find that their encouragement is more to refer to those who need to be punished and detained without reliance on the criminal offences, which we all know have been aware that in recent years they have dealt with the Greek society, in other words the prisoners who had been sentenced for felony acts, were not incarcerated and left free, they were out and returned again in the field of illegality and violations of them. The releases under the laws brought about by the previous government exceeded seventeen thousand in the period from April 2015 to August 2019. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the releases have exceeded seventeen thousand the previous period. What common sense tolerates it and accepts it? The draft law brought by the government, as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, restores common sense and updates the framework for the functioning of criminal justice. It is essentially a piece of legislation - a product of study, but also an excellent work of the committee set up by Professor Margaritis. The new institutional framework now provides life for crimes such as homicide, life for recent betrayal, life for group rape, life for fatal rape, death robbery, forest arson and child rape. If you look at the daily press today, that is exactly what it says and I repeat that it carries the common sense of the citizens about the rape of minors. For those who do not commit these heinous crimes, the release conditions are growing in the 1/5. This means that those who have been sentenced to life will be able to apply for their conditional release only if they have completed eighteen years in prison. The bill provides - among other things - for the conversion into felonies of crimes which have so far constituted defects, such as forest arson. In particular, forest arson will now be dealt with and persecuted as a felony with a sentence of prison of up to eight years and a financial penalty. I would remind you that under the previous code forest arson has turned into a flood. Couples, too, are considered to be deceived by minors. In addition, the draft law also deals with legal gaps and pathogens, such as the obligation to report on acts linked to the insult of sexual dignity in the workplace within a quarter. So what is now happening with the reform brought by the Ministry of Justice? Now, with the regulations contained in the bill, the time for the complaint is five years and the prosecutor will prosecute the prosecution upon a petition, a denunciation, or any other information that the offence has been committed, without requiring the three-month period for the submission of the complaint in question. In addition, it tightens up and rationalises the framework for the creation of the temporary sentence for crimes, such as the violation of the drug law in distinguished form, the establishment of participation in criminal organisation, terrorist acts, robberies, blackmail, trafficking in human beings and others. With the new framework, the time is increasing to allow the release of 4/5 of the sentence to be haunted, and the penalty is being severed, but also the framework for offences involving the abuse of minors. An own-initiative prosecution of offences against sexual freedom against minors is being introduced, and provision is made for the start of limitations on offences against minors to begin with adulthood, as is the case with felony. Mr Minister, may I conclude by expressing my complete satisfaction and congratulating you and the Secretary-General, but also the working party, because at last I consider the regulation brought by the bill to be excellent - and you yourself personally - to which the offence of illegal fishing returns to our territorial waters and, finally, the penalty provided for is now being severed, which is now being imprisoned for six months and a financial penalty, while, until now, only a financial penalty has been provided for. This provision is of considerable value, ladies and gentlemen. I, Mr Ypsilante, but other colleagues I see in the Chamber are from the island country. It is incomprehensible that our waters, our territorial waters, should be vaccinated by fishing fleets across the bank and that there should be no minimum penalty. This is a message to the opposite side of the Aegean and especially to those who systematically fish illegally in Greek territorial waters, even making threats to the fishermen of the islands. The videos that have been screened in Greek society through the media are well known. They are familiar with what is going on even now that we are talking about. The application of the law in this case must be absolute. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand your objections, your positions, but it is a consensus that we can express today, namely the modernisation of the justice system in the country, and I call on you to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you again, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u89	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. And now Mrs Anna Karamanlis has the floor and then Mr Ioannis Giolas from SYRIZA next. Here, Mrs Karamanlis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing aims to strengthen the sense of security for all of us. The changes that are taking place are aroused in the sense of the public about the law, for which no one can be indifferent. What do you think people want from our justice system? No crime remains unpunished for crimes, such as the removal of human life, the most serious punishment and the criminal actually serving his sentence. The amendment of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure was one of the priorities of the Government. The amendments were deemed necessary as they correct legal failures and gaps in the prosecution and punishment of criminal conduct that emerged in the application of the codes that the SYRIZA government legislated. The truth is that we are not just talking about legal failures and gaps, but about provisions that have been abolished or reduced by a major criminal deception of traditional crimes, they have thrown into soft rapists, members of criminal organisations, many of which are circulating free and often continue to provoke with their behaviour. Do you want us to remind you of the slightest crime warrant for the rape or reduction of years of imprisonment in the event of a criminal offense, such as that of Golden Dawn? Today, with the legislative intervention of the government, we restore order and really deserve congratulations, both to the Minister, Kostas Tsiras and to the Deputy Minister of Justice George Kotsiras. The only sentence for the offences of the last treason, the homicide, the fatal robbery and the group rape is life sentence, that is, the heaviest sentences. By tightening up the framework for the dismissal of sentences, on condition that anyone who is convicted of criminal offences, such as the establishment of a criminal organisation, the ultimate betrayal, the homicide, the robbery, the rape of a minor, the trafficking of people, will remain longer in prison. Life will mean eighteen years in prison, at least sixteen years in prison today. So, on the one hand, a reasonable balance is achieved between the penalty imposed and the actual end-of-time sentence, and, on the other hand, he who has been sentenced will know that he will not serve much less than that imposed on him. How can we forget that, with the provocatively beneficial provisions of the SYRIZA government, thousands of prisoners, including hundreds of barbecue, came out of prisons, many of them returned to organised crime, committed barbaric crimes, causing strong reactions to public opinion? The limitation on crimes against sexual liberties carried out at the expense of a minor will start one year after his adulthood, i.e. at the age of nineteen if the act is a flood and three years, namely, at the age of twenty-one if it is a felony. While according to what is currently happening the start of limitations on offences against minors only relates to felonies and starts from adulthood. The transfer of limitation time after the eighteen years gives the opportunity for the offences they have in particular, due to their nature, to be inappropriate enough time for the minor to be able to recognise or realize the act as a felony and find the mental courage to denounce it. Let us not forget that such actions may also come from a familiar person and have painful consequences for the physical, sexual and emotional health of the victims and should in no way be unpunished. When offences against sexual freedom are at the expense of minors, self-determination is provided. Mindfulness of minors is now a felony, while to date they are punished according to the age of the minor. And for the crime of rape when he's at the expense of a minor, the sentence of life imprisonment is provided. These are provisions compatible with the International Convention on the Rights of the Child who have a central interest in the child and are aimed at the absolute protection of incapacity, that is, we protect the child and not the perpetrator. The insult of sexual dignity in the workplace is now being persecuted on its own initiative so that they do not remain unpunished by any such crimes. Because we all know that very often victims are afraid or have no opportunity to resort to justice. We are once again protecting the victims, mainly women, but also men and not the perpetrators. The penalty framework for trafficking in human beings is also strict in order to protect victims of sexual abuse and exploitation. The crime of incest becomes a felony in which it was converted into, is devalued by the modification of the codes made by the SYRIZA government. What mother whose child's rape will haunt her a life, can she afford to be punished by the perpetrator of the incest by a crime sentence? No mother, I imagine, and no father. Judging of offences against sexual freedom is now a priority, as provision is made for the right of the prosecutor of the Ice Arena to order the interrogation and the introduction of the case to the audience as a matter of priority, while provision is also made for the adult victims to be examined in the presence of a psychologist. Ladies and gentlemen, we urge the vulnerable victims to denounce the offences. We are struggling around the strong security net to overcome their fears, to trust themselves, but also our justice system and at the same time to set an example of reaction to those who are abused. Once again, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis corrects the failures and tragic mistakes of the past, disgusting and satisfying the public about the right feeling. Our jurisprudence system is modernising and adapting to the needs of society. No crime left unpunished anymore. Criminals are actually serving their sentences and vulnerable groups are protected. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, the educational role of each county is achieved. No one alone and unprotected, no single feared and unprotected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mrs Karamanlis, and respect for the time. Mr Yiannis Giolas has the floor now from SYRIZA, and immediately thereafter Mrs Silina Skondra from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the provisions of this bill are based on a spirit of generalised strictness, preservation and regression in relation to the philosophy of criminal codes in force in the advanced and democratic states of the European Union. The mission of Criminal Law is to protect through the threatened sentence of fundamental values of society, i.e. goods that are absolutely essential to the establishment of normal social coexistence, in order to establish and ensure social peace. At the same time, however, the rules of criminal law also seek to restrict the state from abuses of the individual freedoms and rights of citizens to whom it may carry out with the help of the breaking, that is, the terrible weapon of the sentence. The task of the Criminal Law is therefore twofold and, at the same time, balanced. On the one hand, the protection of legal goods when they are unbearable, but on the other hand, the safeguarding of individual freedoms from State arbitrage. In this sense, criminal law is not a neutral law. It does not introduce regulation, regulate legal relations or settle economic relations and requirements. What is his action in the field of the exercise of criminal jurisdiction? The punishment alone. But a pity which cannot escape the spirit and principles of democracy, rationalism, liberalism and humanism, humanism, which applies to all civilised states. The state must therefore self-limit itself to avoid slipping into authoritarian and police-type state power. This self-restriction of the state is a precondition for our legal culture. We can't go through this. We can't break it. The Protestant Criminal Code, with its introduction and prevalence of liberal characteristics, created the content of the law at a personal level, as I said before, humanitarian and harmonious, since it balanced between the need to protect legal goods and the need to protect individual rights equally. This balance has been achieved and lasted for many years. But it was a little degenerated after the state started legislative interventions in the Criminal Code and in the procedural procedure by adding changes and altering its provisions solely on the basis of the news, the context and the press's headlines. Thus it has evolved into a multi-collectional and unformation that has altered the single, coherent and simple character of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, which, as we said before, must characterise them. Over time we have been over-increasing the deceptiveness of crimes, but unfortunately only on paper. We lawyers have lived through it on several occasions. The felony acquired a quasi-symmetrical character, with twelve and fifteen years sentences suspended. Mostly, of course, where? The 'white collar crimes'. And equally high penalties, up to 20 years old, to similar ones that were easily transformed. In this context, and with the completion of the overteen-year processing by the independent and with purely scientific criteria established by the Legislative Committee at the end of our past SYRIZA government's term of office, the applicable penal codes that restored the proportionality of the sentences in a context of rationalisation and humanisation were passed. Unfortunately, you have started to demolish them with the taking over of your administration, gentlemen of the government. The culmination of your actions is completed with this draft law, which represents an unrealistic regression with the introduction of generalised stricterisation, as I said before, of penalties, abolishing the previous legislative effort to rationalise and proportionality. The draft law that you are proposing does not even go on with a defined single draft regulation of the jurisprudence and rules. For this reason, and it does not contain a substantial explanatory statement, only an analysis of the effect of the regulation has been included. What can you justify? What is his contribution to the evolution of the Criminal Law? Without risking me being a simplistic one, I would say that your only concern and the only concern for the codes you are proposing is to tighten the sentences of certain offences on the basis of public opinion, in order to create safety illusions, the novelty of terror and fear, to fruit a little popularity that gives you the headlines of the media friendly to you. However, since you are, ladies and gentlemen, emphasizing the strictness of the penalties, why did you treat the bankers with mildness and dirt, in fact absolve them? That is to say, the poor devils and the Ayannians, the messes with the bankers. That's who you are. You show your real face. You are also limiting the provision of social benefits, as a main penalty, to a measure which would help prevent or limit social marginalisation and the relapse of low indifference micro-prudentials, but also to reduce the over-inflation of prisons at the same time. Reiterate the incomprehensible punishment - the rapporteur has told you since the morning - of the inappropriate attempt which is a diversion from the principles of objective law and has been deported to the cart of unusables for decades. You are imposing unbearable suffocating restrictions on the beneficial and penitentiary parallel measure of the current condition of dismissal. You are trying to modify Article 191 on disseminating false news with an authoritarian, anti-democratic and unjustified legal provision. It is a clear anti-democratic change that restricts and criminalizes freedom of speech. Unfortunately, it turns us back to black times of arbitrary and censorship. You are extinguishing the constitutional principle of proportionality, with the inexpensive sentence of life imprisonment you impose, whether the perpetrator seeks to kill the victim, whether he has a potential deceit, or acts in advance of the murder, and also by imposing emotional charges, limiting the court's right, the inalienable right to measure the sentence. This is unacceptable and incomprehensible regulation which has also led to the rejection by your committees of all the treatments under Criminal Law. I conclude by saying that your bill, gentlemen, goes to populism, obeys the rhetoric of headlines and neo-conservatism, embracing the imposition of the sentence as a purely punishment and revenge. General and special prevention and peace of the legal order are completely absent from your intentions and do not in any way perform the ultimatum of your necessary, fair and modern legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u93	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mrs Skondra has the floor now, and then Mr Dionysios Cape from New Democracy immediately thereafter. Here, Mrs. Skondra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill tabled by my Minister of Justice and my coordinator, Mr Tsiaras, introduces absolutely essential amendments to the existing Criminal Code. Whatever disagreements have been made, the substance remains a unique one. The new Criminal Code modernises the legal framework in our country and adapts it so that it responds to the crimes and data of the time, as it is known that in the government and in the New Democracy we are honoring and trusting unrestrictedly the Greek judges to whom we deliver this framework. In no case do the new provisions result from a vengeance, both of the Minister and of the Government. They go from an increased sense of justice. This sense of law which our fellow citizens are anxious to see and which the state must ensure. Clearly and clearly, the government places and legislates what it believes. It is time for all parties to clarify their position on the strictness of penalties. Will you explain to the Greek people what you think and how you mean justice, gentlemen of the Opposition? The question is neither philosophical nor rhetoric. You have a clear answer, because the reaction to everything, 'yes, but' fishing in cloudy waters and nagging is neither political nor political. While you are thinking of the answer, I will congratulate the cardinal minister and all his staff on the serious, methodical and effective work they produce in this critical ministry, serving this important institution of justice. An institution that in several moments of our history has been at the heart of political integrations, with society seeking independent, effective and rapid justice, but often feeling frustrated and insecurity. Ladies and gentlemen, I am entering the essence of the bill. The failures of the existing Criminal Code of the previous SYRIZA - ANEL government are being eliminated. He had even been changed with a bizarre to misunderstanding, after they transferred the date of the national elections to make it possible. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which had repeatedly shown that it understood and handled the institution of justice, was trying to work on it properly, seeking to control this basic responsibility of power for its own political purpose. Today criminal justice is being modernised and quality traits are being upgraded, in line with international standards. The provisions of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure are in line with the European conventions governing the protection of minors and adult victims of criminal activity. Those crimes that had been degraded by the previous government are being upgraded to felony. The framework of penalties is being adjusted and the penalties are being brought to an end - loopholes. Crimes, sexual crimes and crimes against the sexual freedom of minors are now being punished for life imprisonment. As our Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, life becomes the only punishment for homicide and rape. With this bill, the time has changed for the start of the violation of crimes, trafficking in human beings, the arrest of minors and offences against sexual freedom. The offence of the insult of sexual dignity in the workplace and the insult of sexual decency for minors will now be persecuted, not by a complaint as it has been done so far. The digitisation and revision of all the codes that are the most important tools in the hands of the judiciary officials are progressing rapidly, so as to finally eliminate the phenomena of delays in the administration of justice. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of Article 191 of the Criminal Code on the dispersion of false news created controversy as there were reactions from the opposition parties. So, is the opposition against the need to deal with the dispersal of false news? Is it not an obligation for the state to shield all of us's rights to correct information? This in no way marks a restriction on freedom of opinion and expression. This is fundamental freedom, which does not, however, outweigh the State's equally fundamental obligation to protect the supreme good, human life, among many important others. Every day we are witnessing tragic incidents of people who are losing their lives from misinformation and dispersal of false news, distortions, rumours and irresponsible views of non-experienced scientists who are inconvenienced and fearful in science, so that people are not vaccinated, sick and many to flee unjustly from life. Ladies and gentlemen, the new Criminal Code also stipulates that the offence of forest arson - which has been a flood so far - is being committed by imprisonment for up to 15 years. Cases of arsonism in which even a death occur lead to life. Car accidents on the grounds of the tragic death record tighten the penalties for drivers of an accident having had alcohol consumed either driving under the influence of drugs, moving to the opposite traffic, or finally conducting improvised struggles. For the offences of recent treason, homicide, group rape, fatal rape and fatal robbery, life is now foreseen without the possibility of another alternative sentence. Converts incest into a felony by a flood that is today. It will be punished by imprisonment from five to ten years if the act is carried out by parents and grandparents to their children and grandchildren respectively. And here, Minister, I will tell you that few are, as a mother and as a woman, and I would even expect the ladies from the left of this House to show their sensitivity. The offense of a minor is now punished only as a felony in all his forms by imprisonment sentences of up to 15 years. Penalties are being substantiated in the crime of trafficking in human beings, and if death is the case, is being punished. There are 15 years of imprisonment for crimes with serious physical damage and the challenge of disability or deformation. The release conditions shall be increased to allow isovitaes to apply for dismissal at least after eighteen years of imprisonment. Also, those who have been convicted of felony will not be released in a bracelet. Mr President, a favoured and organised state can only work harmoniously when there are rules that prevent any serious infringement. The freedom of all of us has a specific limit. He must stop where he begins to influence another’s freedom. It's not just the defendants and the offenders. They have rights both for innocent people and victims. And to be quite clear, a state has a duty to prevent it from taking time before the victimization of innocent souls. Why don't we make a fool of a child's soul, for example, it's not going to be saved by the absurd doctrine "do whatever you sleep when the criminal comes to steal you, rape you, kill you". Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u95	Thank you too, my colleague. Mr. Dionyssiou Vickipis from New Democracy has the floor now, shortly after Mr. George Kamine from the Change Movement, and then Mr. Constantine Tsiaras will take the floor. Mr. Abby, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing today in the Greek Parliament's plenary is an important initiative of the Ministry of Justice, as well as another demonstration that this government is fully implementing its commitments to the Greek society. This is an excellent, and in the right direction, draft legislation which is the product of a thorough and thorough legislative effort, the core of which is the increased protection of victims of criminal acts. At the same time, the bill we have in our hands is a bill seeking to restore all the failures that so far existed in our Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. Of course, I am talking about the failures, problems, the failures caused by the accelerating, and without any dialogue or processing changes of the previous government, the government that chose to put the new Criminal Code to the vote one day literally before the House closed, giving the forthcoming elections in 2019. Now, of course, the question is obviously being raised, why is a government making progress in such a deserving move, and what are political purposes behind it? However, the answers to these questions are always given by Greek society and the Greek society has already condemned SYRIZA in 2019, just as SYRIZA condemned it by means of legislation such as the previous one. So the government, through the new provisions we are discussing today, is stepping up the abuses of major criminal deception of certain traditional offences which had been degraded by the previous government. At the same time, the penalties framework shall be adjusted in a manner that strengthens their deterrent and proportionate nature. Ladies and gentlemen, I will personally allow my fellow lawyers to deal with the technical, legal issues of the bill and, for my part, I shall be placed on the provisions we have as a parliamentarian and, above all, as a ordinary citizen of our country, as a citizen who understands, who has in particular seen the problems and needs of our society today as regards the development of the various forms of crime and the need to suppress it and I therefore need to protect our fellow citizens. It is blinding and deafing, ladies and gentlemen, anyone who does not agree that our society is currently demanding the strictening of our criminal legislation so that we can deal effectively and if possible with criminal acts of a pretext nature and the quality of which, unfortunately, we have been overtaken. The opposite view that says that there is the possibility of being judged in what state the perpetrator was or was emotionally charged, etc., I would say that he finds me completely opposite, because he has no right to remove any human life in whatever state he is. We forget, of course, that human life is the most important asset and is not negotiated in any situation, whether or not the perpetrator is. But let us be told there by the Opposition, which is now clear that they continue to opposition to the opposition, so much disagree that homicide should be punished only by life imprisonment? Do they argue that rape of a minor should be punished only by life imprisonment? Are they against punishing the deadly robbery only for life imprisonment? Do you object to the Civic Opposition to tighten up the device for serious physical damage in the sense of which disability and permanent deformation are now added, as we have seen in the well-known case of sulfuric acid? Ladies and gentlemen, in recent months, unfortunately, we have all witnessed serious crimes, crimes against the life of women, crimes against sexual freedom of children, criminal arson, sexual exploitation at the workplace, and the list does not stop here. There is therefore no doubt that the need to tighten up the relevant rules of law is in place, and even unsolved, so that society can feel safe. I still strongly believe that at the moment the Greek society is fully in line with the provisions to tighten up the framework for the dismissal of sentenced persons and the refusal to dismiss criminals who are repeatedly serious felonies. We must stress that criminals who have been convicted of crimes under the drug law for participation in a criminal organisation in the terrorist acts of robbery, blackmail, trafficking in human beings, should have been made redundant, provided that the four-fifths of their sentence in force under the previous law have been used by the beneficial calculation. In addition, the above crimes will require a real stay in a penitentiary of three fifths of the actual sentence of two fifths currently in force. Let's not be fooled. The brutal crime that really hits people brutally and irreparably and imposes a clean and sound response on the part of the state. In conclusion, I would like to point out that this government is currently legislating the stricter punishment of the most serious felonies. It moves on to these provisions without chewing the words directly and without reservations, showing blind confidence in its justice and its decisions. As much as the previous government tried to keep us back, as much as its decisions and legislation established the insecurity and fear in the souls of Greek citizens, we are today moving towards modernising the provisions of our Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure and harmonising them with European conventions. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing today is a useful tool in the hands of our judiciary officers, while at the same time seeking the effective restoration of the sense of security for our fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u97	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, for keeping time. Mr. George Kamine from the Change Movement has the floor. As I said before, immediately after the Minister will speak. After the Minister's word, Mr Vartzopoulos will be taken from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known to everyone that codification of legislation and especially of criminal law must be a long-standing task. Therefore, the introduction of changes to a code when it is desecrated and fragmented alters the basic philosophy of the legislator and ultimately produces the exact opposite results from what it aims to do. In our case, it increases crime rather than reduces it. I am saying this because in today's bill we do not have a bill that comes as the fruit of a systematic monitoring of the implementation of the Criminal Code. For two reasons. Firstly, because the period since the entry into force of the current code is too short, just a couple of months and a few months. Secondly, because as we all know, because of the pandemic a real application of this code has not been able to do so. That is why the changes proposed to us stand in the air. They do not rely on any serious study and research. This explains the universal reaction of the plenary session of the Presidents of the Bar Association, the Union of Judges and Prosecutors and the Association of Greek Criminalists. I have heard the Minister say yesterday in the committee that anyone who does not vote for the bill runs counter to public opinion who claims that the guilty of serious crimes, sexually and other, must be punished seriously. It is a disgrace to the Minister of Justice on such a complex issue as changes to the Criminal Code to support his bill in the House with arguments that can only be heard in cafés. I believe that no one in this Chamber disagrees with the severe punishment of spouses and raped minors. But if punishment is to be effective, it is not enough to increase penalties and make it more difficult to dismiss the prisoners on condition. I wish that a serious state's anti-criminal policy could be confined only to these punishment measures. Humanity had long solved the problem of serious crime. Sadly, however, in a modern society, anti-crime policy is much more complex and requires integrated and not fragmentary approaches. Because if strict penalties for serious offences are not accompanied by other measures then what the legislator manages is to fill the prisons, turn them into crime schools where delinquents learn from organised crime, since they are indiscriminately confronted with other convicts. The Minister, however, does not seem to care for this because the problem of overpopulation in prisons has been taken care of by the government since the first moment to charge it to the Ministry of Civil Protection. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we are living with the only one in the time-consuming European crazier state, a ministry to legislate on crime and another ministry to have the responsibility of penitentiary policy. So we have reached the point while we already have a serious problem of overpopulation in common prisons, the alternative ways of creating the sentence, such as rural prisons, the so-called bracelet and the public-private work of the municipalities, have been brought into extinction and disuse. Over two years the Minister has been mocking us that he will bring a bill for the institution of socially beneficial work which he has plunged and cynically put responsibility for the delay in the municipalities. And not just that. For example, look at the deterioration of the institutions of rural prisons when common prisons are suffocating. With figures on November 1, the rural prison of Agia Chania was only 35% complete. Cassandra Halkidiki is only 34.42%. The Cassavetea rural prison where young people are being held, only 32.85%. In contrast to closed prisons, there is over-consciousness of prisoners. Youth Prison at Volos is 180% full. The Koridal has six hundred forty prisoners more than his capacity. Larissa's about two hundred more prisoners. The Kos and Ioannina prisons are full of 190%. Let me remind you, of course, that the pioneering institution of rural prisons was created by the revolutionary government of Eleftherios Venizelos in 1911 on the government of the great Dimitrakopoulos. You know, today you're conscious of him. You're leading him to a frenzy. So much you understand from anti-criminal and penitentiary policy, that's what you're doing. In the Minutes, Mr President, I make a relevant article from a newspaper detailing the problem of over-concentration in common prisons and vice versa. [[At this point Mr Georgios Kaminis presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But we did. The problem of prison over-consciousness seems to be of no interest to you because it concerns another ministry, as if our Constitution did not provide that government policy must be united and that is why there is solidarity with the ministers. But also more generally with today's bill, you repeat the permanently short-sighted practice of the New Democracy, to transform penalties into the strictest, in order to satisfy temporary communication purposes, without any interest in the real impact of these measures on anti-criminal policy. This is not just a conservative approach to the criminal phenomenon. Unfortunately, this is much worse, a contradictory and short-sighted practice that, instead of reducing crime, actually increases it. The proposed provisions will further exacerbate the phenomenon of prison over-concentration, which is why it is mathematically certain that emergency release laws will soon be available, as New Democracy has done in the past and not only by SYRIZA. I would remind you of Laws 3727/2008, at the initiative of the then Minister of Justice, Mr Hatzidakis and Mr 3772/2009, at the initiative of the Minister of Justice, Mr Dendia. However, at the level of the police provision, we anticipate the same. And I would really like to hear in cases like the conjunct in Daphne, which, as we know, was a third-month-old complaint before the husband murdered the unfortunate wife, did ELAS respond as we saw in a simple walk with the service car outside the husband's residence? If this is the case at the prevention level, what exactly are your current changes helping? It is good, then, to create a relative sense of security with the threat of harder penalties, but from us the Greeks demand something much more. They demand that we not only legislate under the state of a communication policy, but that we lead, guide and finally have a government, which will, at some point, draw up a targeted framework for preventing criminal policy and penitentiary. This, of course, requires an integrated approach to the criminal phenomenon, which includes both police prevention and alternative penalties for cases of minor crime. In this case you will find us sick in the simplistic concept that it is enough to raise prices to eliminate the criminal phenomenon. In this simplistic concept leading to increased crime, we will not agree with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. The Minister for Justice has the floor, Mr. Tsiaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are legislating on the changes in the Criminal Code, making use of a very great effort that has been made over the past period and demonstrating a consistency with a specific political position that at least the New Democracy has had, which seems to have been implemented. Before responding to what I have heard, through different expressions of opinion from my fellow Members, I would like to make a small historical regression. Changes in the Criminal Code, in the already existing Criminal Code, started in 2010. It was not an initiative of SYRIZA's previous government. It was an initiative of different governments both in PASOK and in the New Democracy. And, of course, there were, if I remember correctly, at least three different legislative committees, working towards modernising a Criminal Code and incorporating all the scattered, hundreds of scattered, amendments of Criminal Law that existed in different bills. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] This effort is realised that it was dictated by the very reality that forced a modern democratic state to have a single text on the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure and, of course, to be governed by a philosophy that gives rise to a general view, dominating most of the laws of European countries. All parties from the start to almost - I repeat, almost - participated in this effort. There were disagreements. The Criminal Code is a text that can be approached through an ideological, I would say, a reference. That's the truth. I won't hide behind my finger. However, from there on, we can agree to something, until it has been voted in a way which is incomprehensible, with a study that no one can or may even justify, one day before the Greek Parliament closes, in order to get the country to the elections, with the presence of few colleagues in the Chamber of the Greek Parliament, you can understand that it is a reality that is far from being a reality, at least, a type of agreement, or, if you like, an association of different views in a single legal text. We had noted from the first moment that the Criminal Code was not only the way it was passed, but also the provisions it provided for created a strong sense of insecurity in Greek society and in Greek citizens. We had warned that we would see results that would be raised by the public on the legal sense of our fellow citizens, of Greek society, but at the same time they would also create a more general reflection, even in the scientific community itself. And that is why, in the election period of June 2019, one of the top issues raised in the hierarchy of the political agenda on the part of the New Democracy was to see again and, of course, to correct the Criminal Code voted by the previous government. The first day I was found, literally the first day in my office, at the Ministry of Justice, the first document in front of me, and the first call I received was that the country was incomprehensibly exposed, because the previous government had made sure that the actual felony of active bribery was devastated. It was the call that I received from the representative of GRECO. With panic, sadness, anger, expressing emotions about the fact that the country was unthinkably exposed, precisely because the previous government had made such a choice. I have immediately committed myself that this is a matter that we will see as soon as possible. And, of course, that explains why in just three months from the time we were talking about, we came to make the first changes to the Criminal Code, providing for some other issues that at that time we saw needed to intervene immediately. If you remember, ladies and gentlemen, at those meetings that were intense - that is the truth - I was committed to setting up a New Criminal Code monitoring committee and in due course we will come to propose changes. I am not one of those who believe that the Criminal Code can change from one day to another, nor am I one of those who believe that when you have to have a single legal text you have to intervene fragmentally. For this very reason, it has not taken place at that time in direct changes to the Criminal Code, but instead we have set up a legislative committee with fifteen leading members of legal science and the judiciary, which I do not know if you will continue to question them with all that is heard with such ease from this Step, who have sat on and worked on a night, seeing the real problems that exist, seeing that any changes must have a coherent, comprehensive character, have no impact on the philosophy of the Criminal Code. And, of course, in response to specific issues which were either raised by the Ministry - that is the reality - or were raised by society itself, through the events that have occurred and through all that have been recorded. So this effort took place about two years later, and today we are here before you in order to propose these changes. I have pointed out to you at the first time that changes are not a product of ideology or - if you like - a controversy which one can have on matters relating to the Criminal Code with the previous government, nor - much more - a need to describe a state which must stand suffocly or pressfully against the citizen. Besides, the fact that two such different extreme views have been heard, I mean from different representatives of the parties, and this current legislation is coming to stand somewhere in the middle, it also proves the right thing to do, ladies and gentlemen, and I think that this will prove to be what you are going to hear and then immediately thereafter. Today, then, we come to propose concrete changes. What do these changes see? What are the changes we propose? Because, I understand, since there is no central comment at the core or the beginning of the bill, that one finds some articles - it makes sense, I would say, that it is in parliamentary ethics - in order to oppose and express the different viewpoints. What are we trying to do with these changes? We have essentially tightened the framework of penalties to specific heinous crimes which now have one single sentence. I am pleased that Mr Lappas came and said in public: 'We do not want it to be just life for the homicide and we do not want it to be life for the rape of minors'. At least so Greek citizens will know what's going on. It's clear. We - and I told the committee - do not weigh human life and human dignity. And here's clear. And finally - as, in any case, you give me a resignation because I am not a legal person - the fact that when there are life, at the same time they can be recognizably recognised - and I address the lawyers they know, is it supposed to be everything they need to know - is it not an option in the hands of any judge, in order to judge in a different way? Is the question of whether there is a single penalty which must show the offender of the act and must function exemplarily? Is that the issue, ladies and gentlemen? And to continue, the first was to tighten sentences. The second was an increase in the actual time to build the sentence. Greece, based on data - was also heard at the Scientific Conference this weekend - is one of the countries that had the most low real punishment. Here, then, a penalty with beneficial measurement takes place 4/5 and with real penalty time 3/5, from 3/5 and 2/5 respectively. So here too, there is a step forward in modernising and adapting legislation not only to the common sense of law but also to a reality that concerns all of Europe's legal systems. Even the question of whether it is the same length of penalty per occasion, you know very well that it is in different ways. I heard earlier the President of the Greek Solution, who spoke of threats that are lower than our own sentences for specific crimes. Life is no longer sixteen but eighteen years. And, of course, that is when it is possible to ask the judiciary if there is the possibility of dismissal. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. The next axis on which we are moving is that there were violations of behaviour which had been undermined and felonies committed. We're bringing them back to felony. One of the issues we had raised since the first moment was so-called environmental crimes. In fact, in order to prove to you that we are not legislating with psychology at the moment, how much more we do not legislate with the logic of public opinion, which Mr Kamines mentioned earlier, and I am sorry that, in any case, he can misinterpret in his own way what he is saying, but this is evidenced by the fact that the tightening up of penalties for fire, arson and flooding was made on my own proposal to the July Ministerial Council long before there were all the phenomena of August which destroyed a large part of our natural environment in Greece. This is the real proof that we are legislating not with the psychology of the moment, nor under the burden of an event, but we are trying to make it happen. And the fourth axis concerns so-called sexual crimes, in all these Me Too phenomena, which we have seen in recent years and which have not been dealt with in an adequate legal framework, by laying down specific rules which at least fortunately I have not heard any criticism of. In fact, with the possibility of prioritising all these cases in the pre-examination and introduction to the audience, where such possibilities exist from the point of view of the highest judicial officers. All this, ladies and gentlemen, compose a coherent legal text which - I repeat - comes to deal with problems that were created by the previous Criminal Code and, of course, modernises provisions which, for different reasons, either permeated the attention of the previous government or, in any case, some did not want to include them. And I totally understand that. So I come to make a few points, which I think we will have the opportunity to talk about many times these two days and to answer any issues that will be raised to us. I saw the two announcements from SYRIZA, the honorable Mr. Xanthopoulou. One, it was normal, came out sometime at noon and was about a single specific article in the bill. It was about Article 47 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I was surprised that a few hours later there was a second communication, supplemented by references to Article 263 through which I was supposed to have been found and I do not know what kind of issues. And here I answer the Greek President of Greece. Did you not know, ladies and gentlemen, that by correcting this article on how we restored the malicious nature of active bribery, there were issues that had to be dealt with and for which both OECD and GRECO were calling us? Didn't you know, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? Don't you know the country has been unrealisticly exposed? How did Mr Velopoulos read the report on the rule of law of the European Commission? I wonder. Do you know what the report said? The report said good to this government that changed this crime and upgraded it to a felony, but unfortunately, given the fact that there is a better law, there are some cases that have escaped. That's what the report says. Am I or am I indulging in this? No, Mr. Heta, it's not like that, and you know it very well. So he wants to pay attention to how we read the reports, because if you want me to reread the report on the rule of law in Greece and analyz it for word - and I am able to do so - I am sure you will find that it is perhaps the first positive report after many years on the rule of law in Greece, that we have done many of the reforms that are needed for Greece to upgrade its position with regard to the evaluation of its judicial system. This is the first time that this has been done. Any negative points are not mentioned in the period of governance of the New Democracy. They refer to the previous period. So do not come here and move the report of the European Commission's rule of law for Greece, when it is the first time that there is something positive here. But I return to the press releases concerning SYRIZA and the judiciary officer. Yesterday I replied to you on Article 263. Indeed, if you wish, I will return to the Minutes of this House all the correspondence and all the issues concerning the GRECO interventions on the issues that we are actually going to change with Article 263. [[At this point, the Minister for Justice, Mr Constantine Tsiara, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With regard to Rule 47 of the Code of Civil Procedure that we allegedly deleted the words 'false statement' - and to understand that this provision relates to offences for which a provisional action against protected witnesses is being filed - I would like to say the following. If you could see the text, you would understand that it is by mistake, Mr. Xanthopoulou. There's no in the explanatory statement. There's none of this. It really made me a very big impression that even articles on it were written. Think of it - and you know it, you are legal - that when there are severer offences, false persecution, slandering, apparently it's a typographic error and it's inadvertent. There wouldn't be a chance that this would have left and the rest left. You understand that. We will also find examples of what you are criticising here. I mean this little controversy of ours. So here, since there were no issues or issues to raise on the substance of the Criminal Code, we were caught with issues which I, at least, personally, think were of little importance, which were of little importance, and I will explain it shortly. You know, when there are no arguments and you are trying to get caught by the mistakes and quotes of the bill I'm telling you anyway, it was already being corrected and perhaps to create conspiracy theories that here we are trying to change something, you know, they tell me that this is a classic example of unexpected attempt on purpose. I am saying this because if you did not understand the above examples with the unexpected attempt, perhaps through it - and of course I do, you can understand that. Ladies and gentlemen, the effort we have made all this time is about all the issues which, in our view, at least in the opinion of the Scientific Committee on Legislative Affairs was unresolved. Comfortable work, you come back and say the same thing. I explained it and I'll say it again. Of course we are in favour of social work. The socially beneficial work with the previous Criminal Code became the main sentence. What does it mean to make everyone understand? The main penalty now means that public work will be for a very large number of people, multiples of those that have been concerned to date. When, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, have you arranged the insurance stacks of those who will carry out the public-private job penalty? When were you going to broaden the institutions because we're going to talk about a much larger number of people? When did you ensure that the control system is strengthened, whether or not the penalty for social work is carried out? You come and say - and I am rightly going to justify this and I will tell you that I am coming to this view - that the question of penalties is not alone in a society, obviously combined with the functioning of the penitentiary system, obviously combined with social support structures, obviously combined with a penitentiary policy that must have specific objectives and be able to help all these people. So here, when you have decided one day to do the main source of public work, which, I repeat, we all agree with this and do not disagree, when did you ensure that there are no gaps and that this penalty is normally carried out? I repeat what I said to the committee over the past few days, there is another meeting of the committee in order to come up with a specific comprehensive proposal and to restore public service through all the conditions, conditions and conditions to be carried out as the main penalty. I'm saying that to make that clear. For life there have been many unfortunate examples, and I am sorry to say that. The main issue that has dealt with many of our fellow Members, almost all, is 191, the spread of false news. Is that a new article? Now is it introduced for the first time? Wasn't there? Wait a minute, why don't we all understand in this Chamber. Isn't this one of the articles of the '50s Penal Code? Is she new? Now is the first time we've been talking about dispersing false news? Are you all being criticised for an article that is seventy, eighty years old and you are now saying that there shouldn't be? In addition, I told you - and I stressed it in every way - that there is a change in the reality that we are living. The reality has changed and we are forced to adapt to this reality. Personally I don't know which one of us might take the cost of losing human lives because some convince them to either be vaccinated or not to be imprisoned. And if you want this whole debate to remain in the logic of impunity, say clearly that you want it to remain in the logic of impunity. I have also asked for proposals from the parties. I asked you to bring me proposals for this article. I have not seen any proposals, ladies and gentlemen. I didn't hear anything. I didn't hear anything specific. What comes as a legal text is the legal text of the Legislative Committee. We didn't invent it. We didn't write it down. We didn't find out. Obviously not me, neither the partners or the judicial officers at the Ministry of Justice. It is the text of the Legislative Committee, and it is the only way to ensure the true citizen's right to false news, to false information. Isn't that a matter? I have read you the Convention on Human Rights which describes precisely this possibility from all the states. We're not doing anything more. But tell me one more thing. Did the press or journalists really get through all the time, the seventy years that we had this article in force, and even in much tougher terms, which he was even talking about rumors? Is anyone compressed? So today the major issue of confrontation for the debate in the Criminal Code is 191? No, ladies and gentlemen. Look. If there are reasons why someone should be concerned, it would obviously have to look for those reasons. If there are no reasons, however, I do not think we should discuss something that works for seventy years. It is tested, it has never created any problem, but now just some people may express their concern. There are the amendments which I will analyse in second year. But I would like to say this. Because Mr. Hetas was here and actually addressed a phrase to me, I will tell him that I wish you could find your way. It is not possible one day to ask me to tighten up the penalties, to make it quickly, and the next day, to find the reason for refusing to vote in favour of the bill, the fact that we did not do a few more. Although I believe that your position strengthens the right position of the government. Secondly, I would also like to wish KINAL - I know that there are elections to the new leader's election - to find his way soon. I still remember the exhortations of the infamous President of KINAL, Fofi Gennimata, from this very point of view, and I was sitting in the cabinets that he asked me to tighten up the sentences and, of course, to do so as quickly as possible. The fact that there may be changes is an issue that is obviously in the citizens' judgement. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing this. Obviously there is a different philosophy in how one sees the Criminal Code. There are two different proposals here at the table. One is the one we are discussing today, the Criminal Code that I present, the Deputy Minister Kotsiras, my colleagues here in the Greek Parliament, is the Tsiara Penal Code, the Lamprou Margaritis Committee and is the previous Criminal Code of SYRIZA and the Friday. Society judges, sees, chooses. Each of us with its own arguments can show either the right or the wrong of their positions. That is what democracy itself dictates. That is what parliamentary practice dictates. That is what the Greek citizens want to hear from us. The fact that we in a Criminal Code have to balance between a more general trend - I repeat this view - which is in Europe which is talking about poverty, which is about re-socialisation, about reintegration into society of all these people who have had a violation of behaviour and its satisfaction with the common legal system of civil security is a very difficult exercise of equilibrium. This difficult exercise of equilibrium is all called upon to perform and obviously in this exercise some are succeeding and some are not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u101	We continue with the list of speakers. I invite Mr. Dimitris Vartzopoulos from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, I would like the floor, please, for a clarification in the Minister's words.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u103	Here, Mr. Xanthopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u104	Minister, to understand and oppose the substance. I read the plan distributed to the National Representation, Article 47(2): "If you have been indicted or sued for the crimes of false repression, slandering or violations of service secrecy of the Criminal Code for acts..." etc. What have you changed here? I don't understand. What is the 'besides'?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u105	You'll see it in Legislative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u106	Oh, I'll see it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u107	He's coming!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u108	So, on that basis, I rightly indicted you. That's what I understand. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u109	We said it's printing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u110	Guys, he said...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u111	Well, well, there's no dialogue. So your questions have been clarified, Mr. Xanthopoulou. Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u112	'You guys were stealing oars', that's what it looks like!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u113	The Minister will be back with legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Heta, what exactly do you want? Clearance?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u116	Clearance, yes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u117	I'll give you the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u118	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u119	...but I would like - I tell you directly - to keep order in the process, to be the parliamentary representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u120	Because it was addressed because I was rapporteur, so nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u121	Well, well, good, good. You're a rapporteur, too. No one does that. You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u122	Thank you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Minister, we just want to tell you that you probably didn't understand why we voted against. We voted against it because it is not as strict as we would have liked.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u123	I get it, don't worry!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u124	You understood it, but you said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u125	All right, cleared up your intention of voting, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u126	Also, for 191, you know, the pandemic will sometime go away. But this 191 excret is going to be left and you're opening housekeepers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u127	Good, Mr. Heta. Mr. Varzopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what can one say in this very comprehensive placement of this Parliament and of a medical colleague, Mr Minister? I shall, in any case, try to raise a few issues. It is a bill, a piece of legislation from time to time that is expected and exceptional, because the public is mostly disgraceful about the law that calls for more, so more justice, so more effective protection for the citizen. So, then, the perpetrators of serious crimes will stay longer in prisons. Special deceptive acts will now be punished with a maximum sentence only for life, lifelong life, which is now 18 and not only 16 years old. The conditions of favourable treatment, such as the home-made penalty, will now be followed by strict conditions. All offences against minors will begin to be recorded after adulthood. All acts against the sexual freedom of minors are now of its own motion. There is particular attention to crimes against the environment, and even arsons, when they have serious consequences, are now being persecuted as a felony. But this 191 amendment on the dispersion of false news is also on the right path, because, of course, ladies and gentlemen, there is freedom of speech, but freedom of speech and all freedom stops where the 'Parens Patriae' obligation is automatically initiated. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an excellent bill and in this respect: The legislator has also listened to us MPs, including previous colleagues, but I too have asked a few weeks ago about the problem of the abolition of unjust fishing within our own territorial waters, which has led to the only possibility of dealing with the problem from the Port in sending protest documents through the Greek Ministry of Rural Development to the European Commission's Directorate-General for Fisheries, so that it can impose sanctions at some point, it is a procedure completely bureaucratic, completely macro- and therefore completely ineffective. The answer given in Article 94 is in the very right direction, and even enables the port to follow European directives to that effect and impose repressive measures on the ground, such as forced ports, catch and gear seizures and so on. It is therefore a provision that protects our national interests and protects the marine environment. The legislator has also listened to the appeals of many of us to deal with the phenomenon of professionally small crimes, which plunge city centers and the Greek provinces and, if you like, to the belief of rioters and delinquents who are arrested by the same police at regular intervals and who are released after a few hours and are never imprisoned. I had requested the amendment of Article 99 beforehand, and I think that Article 9 is in an absolutely correct direction. However, since, Minister, the enemy of goodness is always the best, it would be, at a later date, that 497(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure should be amended, so that the court which imposes a penalty of up to three years and considers that, because of the convicted historian, it should be immediately enforced, it should also have the possibility - if there is a time and lawfully appeal - that appeal here does not have suspensive effect, so that it can withdraw from circulation, of course, in its own crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, there are some other issues we should see. It is well known that there is an extraterrestrial alien in the penitentiary shops in the country that is well above 50%. And on Athanasios and Undersecretary of the rapporteur, there had been short efforts in bilateral conventions with states from many foreign criminals to put their sentence on the ground in response to sloppy exchanges, but which unfortunately did not pay off. Neither am I now optimistic, no optimistic. But I believe, Minister, that if we reintroduce judicial deportation as an incidental penalty, we may have some effect. Also, what we need to see in a future year is the imposition of special penalties on special criminals such as serial criminals against sexual freedom. The imposition, of course, of such special penalties also involves the creation of a special psychiatrist - forensic services and, of course, a psychiatric prison. Allow me now to refer to something very recent and very specific and, in my view, important. Look, the images of policemen, who are brought for questioning following the use of a service weapon in service with human victims, show that there are formal procedures, but they put both the authority and the morality of the police force at risk. Since, therefore, the police officer in charge should be aware that he can make use of his service of the weapon, of course respecting the relevant rules of involvement, without fearing that this will inextricably lead to his or her inconvenience and that, on the other hand, any police operation which has human victims should be inspected and assessed in detail, I would like to ask, Minister, to consider the possibility of regulation so that, firstly, the arrest of police officers during the 275 Code of Criminal Procedure is excluded, and, secondly, those actions of police officers who, in the performance of their service, will only carry out acts which may fall under the category of self-injudicial crimes and, secondly, the exercise of criminal prosecution in those cases against police officers, in the context of 43 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, may be carried out only if the jurorised examination, which may fall within the category of police officers and, secondly, subject to simple investigation or preliminary investigation, may be carried out. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that this is an important piece of legislation, which once again demonstrates that the conservative party is the only one that can offer the people the combination of freedom and the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u129	We will now give the floor to Mrs Panagiota (Nonis) Dunia from the New Democracy. Then Mr. Kokalis, Mrs. Efthymiou and Mr. Tsigris will be followed. Mrs. Dunia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u130	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have all been waiting for the bill we have been discussing these days, but above all the citizens have been asking for it for a very long time. We have all watched shocked crimes become one after another at scary speed and ease, without essential reason, with victims mainly women, children or vulnerable members of society. Only within 2021, in fact in the first ten months, we counted thirteen feminine homicides. Greece was shocked to see all these women who found a terrible death from the hand of their husband or partner, from Garyfalia to Folegandros, Caroline to Sweet Waters, Monica Gius, who was found cemented in Kyparissia, the three-year-old Dora, killed by her ex in Rhodes, to Nektaria in Ierapetra, and many other women who lost their lives simply because they decided to leave a malicious or inadequate relationship. As all of us were indifferent to the inconvenience and totally unacceptable vitriol attack in Ioannina for the sake of the morbid jealousy of the perpetrator and, of course, with all the cases of rape or abuse of children, who certainly do not have human minds, but also of adults with positions of authority. All the above surely we are all deeply saddened and concerned about what is going so wrong in Greek society. The upbringing and education by which many of their children grow, especially boys, the conviction that they have been cultivating from the early years of their lives that they are intended to be leaders and have the upper hand in their relationship, as well as the way in which men are presenting social stereotypes and the media is undeniably the source of evil. The imitation of social media, too, plays its part. Apart from sexist patriarchal perceptions and wrong media patterns, the hand of all the above killers, but also of many other perpetrators of crimes, the loose provisions of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure were armed. In other words, the feeling of the killers, the rapists or the pedophiles that they will fall softly and the certainty that, with the so far favourable arrangements of our legal framework, no matter what they do very soon, they will come out of prison. This is time to change. The failures of the new Criminal Code voted by the previous government must finally be lifted and the commonly accepted feeling of law in our country must be restored. That's exactly what's coming to do with the bill we're talking about. How? Upgrading to major criminal deception felonies traditionally degraded by the previous government. By adjusting the penalties framework. Modernising the provisions of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure as well as in line with European conventions regulating the rights of the protection of minors and adult victims of criminal activity. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, there is a tightening up of the penalty framework for specific criminal offences, as well as the dismissal under the terms of the sentences. I am not going to go into a detailed report of the changes, since there are more specific colleagues than me who are legal. I shall mention, for example, some very important provisions for me, such as those concerning crimes against minors. From now on all sexual acts with minors will be considered as a felony, that is to say the seduction of any minors of any age. The start of limitation times for all offences against minors is also changed. The limitation will be initiated by the adulthood of the minor, extended by an additional year, provided that the act is a flood or an additional three years, if the act is a felony. In this way, sufficient time will be given for the minor to report, and the state will be able to prosecute them so that these criminal behaviours do not remain unpunished. At the same time, there is provision for automatically prosecuting offences against sexual freedom when they are directed against minors. The provisions are also important, of course, for the general self-determination and insulting sexual dignity in the workplace of each worker. We all know that few people have denounced such cases, because they have just feared that they would lose their jobs. The standardisation as a felony of incest, the sole provision of life imprisonment for group rape, the tightening up of penalties for trafficking in human beings, and the reintroduction of the crime of Macedonia to the detriment of adults, since the abolition of this crime by the new Criminal Code has created an important gap in the field of criminal treatment of the crime in question. I believe it was also necessary for adult victims of sexual abuse offences to be dealt with in the presence of a psychologist, as well as the possibility of examining and violating this kind of offence as a priority. At the same time, there is no doubt about the value of increasing the penalty of the intended serious physical harm from five to fifteen years and the inclusion in the concept of serious physical harm, disability and permanent deformation, as well as the extension of the criminal to commonly dangerous offences such as arson and flooding. The offence of forest arson, indeed, which unfortunately happens very often in our country with incalculable environmental consequences, will now be regarded as a felony. Furthermore, the offences of the last treason, the homicide, which are part of the thirteen felonies I mentioned earlier, the fatal rape and the fatal robbery will be punished from here and henceforth only by the penalty for life imprisonment. Finally, the standard conditions for granting redundancies are stricter and the time for the prisoner to remain in the penitentiary is increased. So in cases such as the incurable Vitriol attack in Ioanna we will not again face the oxymotic and outrageous phenomenon of the victim being tortured for more years than the victim is punished. Ladies and gentlemen, violence - domestic and non-violence - is in no way acceptable. I would also like to congratulate the Minister for Justice for his intention, as he said at the first meeting of the committees, to set up an immediate committee to revise the legislative framework on domestic violence. I am sure this initiative will help significantly reduce related offences. Also, modernising the provisions of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure and their harmonisation with European conventions will make citizens feel and also be safer. This is because the new arrangements will protect them by threatening dissuasive sanctions from becoming victims of acts such as those we have recently witnessed. All our hope is not to hear about crimes with innocent victims again. But since the greetings are not enough, the state, by listening to the needs of the time, puts an end to the slackness of the sentences and gives all the aspiring perpetrators the message that they will find us all in front of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u131	We will give the floor now to Mr Vassiliou Asturias. After Mr. Kokalis, Mrs. Euthymou from New Democracy, Mr. Tsigris, Mr. Burnos, and then Mr. Burnos, the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr. Villardos, will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me not to address the government's MPs but to the Civic Opposition. We have to admit it. It is really difficult for citizens who do not have legal knowledge, for citizens today who are in insecurity, not to be lured from the government's security sirens and from the fact that any crime will be punished. It's really hard, Mr. Lappa. As blurred and nice to support the principle of proportionality today it is difficult for the citizen to understand that what the government brings is a purely communication show alone. The role of the speaker is really difficult. To speak purely as a lawyer and as a Member? The Minister said so, and this is where the government seems to be targeting it. You said, Minister: 'I am very pleased that Mr Lappas, yes, admitted that we do not just want life.' Tomorrow your message will be life-long everywhere, while the Civic Anti-Civilization wants a temporary prison in order to make use of it. And indeed, I repeat, it is difficult for the citizen. Because whoever hears it will say that the government wants life, it needs rigour. But we are called upon to vote on a bill from the Ministry of Justice. There are two philosophies, Minister. The first is what you are expressing, which you are stifling fear, and you want to take advantage of it politically. The second isn't for Officer Opposition. The second is the scientific community, the Association of Greek Criminals, of the Association of Greek Judges, but also with the position of Officer counter-population. You said before about Mr. Marguerite. I'm sorry, didn't Mr. Lappas present for the Minutes Mr. Margaret's opinion on the unexpected attempt on Article 42? Minister, do the easiest, most dangerous and most anti-institutional. Repeat: lifelong or temporary prison? I will insist on that because you too will insist on charming the audience, but I will use the same argument as you said with the lightning. If it's recognizable, will life be life? Oh, no. And you did not respond to what Mr. Lappas said and the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, when the perpetrator is also a victim of a child abuse, and the child is forced after years of abuse to kill his father. Tell me about it. Because we were all judges here today, and that is the mistake of this piece of legislation that we are trying to do the work of the judges. You don't trust them. I repeat. This case, which has been involved in court proceedings, is it fair to face life or temporary in prison when the perpetrator is also a victim? In any case, however, we must see in Europe what is the case, Minister. In Austria, life expectancy for homicide from intentional or temporary at least 10 years old. In Germany, life or temporary five years. In Denmark, life or temporary five years. In Spain, temporary confinement of 10 to 15 years and twenty-five years in the aggravating circumstances. In Norway, there are eight to twenty years of age. What kind of governments are there? And you're blaming the Opposition in communicating that we don't just want life? We want the law and our legal culture to be implemented. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the seven minutes really are too little to develop all these imperfections and distortions in this bill. I, in fact, am surprised, as a ordinary citizen, that I see the institutions of justice such as the Association of Greek Judges, the Association of Greek Criminalists, the people who prosecute criminal justice, the lawyers, are firmly opposed to this bill. But you didn't say anything. Two are the principles for this bill: first of all, strictness. He's got Javert's inspiration. Do you remember Giannis Ayannis for a little theft of how and how he was punished? Secondly, the basic rule of criminal law, Mr Minister, is that the ban on criminal law must be clearly defined. Is that for what? Firstly, in order to be understood by its social partners and, secondly, to ensure that there is general and specific prevention. In the past there were provisions from the Inquisition, in Nazi Germany, where with vague legal concepts people were convicted. I'm going to 191 of the Criminal Code. I come directly to this because it relates to the vagueness and risk of this provision. The words "The hospitals of Thessaly collapse", will it be a criminal offence or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u133	Of course! It's certain.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u134	Tell me a lawyer. Will it be a criminal offense?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u135	As long as it was before 2019. What are you talking about? Is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u136	It causes, if not fear, at least concern. Is it a criminal offence or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Red, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, I shall conclude. Much more I have to say, but it turns out that enlargement and the cultivation of fear are a key political tool of the government, especially now in the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u139	We invite Mrs Anna Happily from New Democracy to Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Red...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u141	Minister, nothing is recorded. If you want to take the floor for some clarification, I'd be happy to. Mrs Evriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a very important initiative by the Ministry of Justice, the Minister of Justice, the Deputy Minister of Justice. At the same time, let us say and stress that in this bill and in its preparation the contribution made by the Monitoring Committee for the Criminal Code, made up of scientists of unknown value, established and approved, was very important and decisive. Now why is this initiative important? Because he faces offenses with a deep social footprint. So we would expect consensus from the opposition. On the contrary, I hear from SYRIZA that we are told that we are drawing up criminal provisions on the basis of timeliness and headlines. And yet, in 2021, there were thirteen murders of women, called "male murders" precisely to highlight the racial dimension that this crime has. According to data from the Secretariat for Family Policy and Gender Equality, there is a very large increase in complaints about domestic violence. In my region there have recently been two complaints by minor students about rape by a minor student. Just yesterday, we saw the shocking videos from the gang of minors who pierced the horror against other minors. Really shocking images. What do they look like? They show that the data have changed and the state has to adapt. And that makes the bill. My position today will mainly focus on offences of racial violence and offences against minors. Apart from my political capacity, I will be placed as a woman and as a mother of two children, as a man who has been involved and who has been involved in the issues of gender equality and racial violence. My experience is that society asks for two things: to satisfy the legal feeling and, of course, to have consensus, because this includes the first requirement of our society. And, indeed, I wonder why there is no consensus on when it is imposed and when we choose the only sentence for life imprisonment for criminals. We as a government and as a party we have made our choice and have sent the message to society today by tightening sentences. On the contrary, SYRIZA has chosen for the rape of minors and for the group rape not only the sentence of life imprisonment. Apart from that, however, it is very right that, as far as labour intimidation is concerned, the offence is now being persecuted automatically. How many women, in fact, didn't open their mouths because they were, exactly, afraid of this relationship of dependence on their employer? I will submit the data here from the largest survey conducted worldwide by the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights. One out of twenty women has been raped, one out of three women being sexually harassed at the workplace, fifty women are losing their lives every week because of domestic violence in the European Union. I am tabling the relevant document on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Anna Happily, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Also, it is necessary for incest to become a felony. We have seen how minor children, unfortunately, are being abused even by their own parents, by their grandparents. And, of course, it is essential to change the limitation time for offences against the sexual freedom of minors. How many minors - more adult - could not lead to the punishment of their own perpetrator, why did they simply fall into the deadlock? Now we come and heal this. And it's very important, because, you know, all these actions against minors are destroying their psychics, their psychic world, and, according to scientific research, the victims themselves become tomorrow's perpetrators. Here, of course, I would like to propose, Minister, that, apart from the criminal treatment of these acts, provision be made for the creation of special units to support these victims at the headquarters of each of the prefectures. Ladies and gentlemen, we have seen that in our country they have also opened their mouths for crimes of sexual abuse, labor intimidation and abuse of minors. It's nothing occasional, it's not a trend that comes and leaves. Even when the mouth is closed, it doesn't mean these crimes stop happening. We really need a holistic approach to this issue, both in terms of prevention and in terms of repression. In fact, Minister, I was very pleased to hear from the committee that you would set up a scientific committee to reform the legal framework for domestic violence. I have also tabled a relevant question to increase gypsies with my proposals, particularly at a preventive level, such as the amendment of school writings aimed at promoting standards that respect diversity, gender equality, respecting consensus, with proposals relating to the financial support for abused women, the treatment of these acts by police of qualified staff, who have specific training and education, the promotion of women's organisations dealing with these issues to raise awareness of society, the encouragement of complaints - even of anonymous ones - the increase in structures. However, even if there is no increase in structures, we should encourage women to come and take vacancies in the structures and hostels. In conclusion, Mr Minister and Minister, I would like to put something important to you. There are crimes that have a racial dimension, which are not taken over by the Criminal Code with that dimension, such as revenge pornography. These are only punished as a breach of personal data. However, the dimensions they have taken are really scary and I think that in a year to come - but immediately - we need to see this, so that we can really put them in the right dimension and criminality. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am voting in favour of the bill, which, in fact, brings reforms to tackle social problems of very strong and very deep importance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u143	Now Mr Angelos Tsigris has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 2000 I completed a survey commissioned by the Foundation for the Child and Family, which concerned the sexual abuse of children. This survey was presented on the occasion of the UNESCO World Conference, which took place in Athens and specifically at the Athens Concert Hall in 2000. After studying all the felony-like criminal documents concerning the crime of rape of children throughout the 20th century in our country and being tried in the mixed judiciary of thirteen districts, blood is cut off, breath stops. Even the most experienced person remains against the most extreme human atrocity crime. I'll be very clear downwards. On 6-11-2019, in the first revision of the Criminal Code attempted by this parliamentary majority, I put the request to the committee responsible for imposing a life sentence on rapists. In the first review, we did not succeed in agreeing or agreeing. In the second, however, the government's majority in total has understood the seriousness of this crime. From this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, we must today leave with one vote lost. It is our duty to the thousands of children who have grown up today and it is doubtful that everything has grown up in the face of the ruined lives of people who are still suffering. The state needs to make a clear word and raise a firewall. So, to be specific, what does the investigation say when a boy falls rape victim? And will anyone wonder, do the boys fall into rape? This survey in Greece of 2000, which includes all 20th-century trials in our country, has shown that 15% of children victims of sexual abuse are boys. This crime is committed only by nature - but not by the most important - as a consequence is the break-up of a clamp. And the break of a clamp, ladies and gentlemen - the doctors know better than I do - condemns you for life to wear diapers. This is the most painless, I would say, consequence of this atrocity. And boys are raped from a very young age. The youngest victim observed in Greece is three years old. Three years old! Here, then, this legislative initiative by the Government is addressed to the average Greek citizen who has children. How are we going to face such a tragic situation in our home? It's impossible to deal with. The consequences of girls - who too are raped by a very young age, the younger girl seen as the victim of rape were two years old, but they may not be two, being three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten - the consistency of all these children is a disaster of their genetic organs and the consequence of the rest of their lives never having the pleasure of childbirth. These are the two main and obvious consequences, which are not the only ones and are not the most important ones. What does the modern psychology research say? School weakness, lack of surveillance, enmity towards society, hostility to the opposite sex, torque to crime, torque to prostitution, people who have, in essence, finished life at the time of the crime. Ladies and gentlemen, I said in 2000 at this UNESCO World Conference - and it is a sin to those who believe in God, but I will repeat it because it is an absolute truth - a child is better off killing it, because if you kill it he dies once rather than rape. If you rape it, she dies every day and every night. Today, then, we must not lose a single vote. For the rest we may not agree, but at least we must agree on that. I am telling you, in the knowledge that today, with our vote, we will make our humanitarian debt to thousands of our fellow people who are watching our lips and asking for our vote. And because, Minister - and you know that very well - I prefer to be useful, I would like to make a proposal in the least time that I have left. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will finish very soon, Mr President. Changes in basic provisions may be necessary at this juncture because crime is changing because society has already changed. Our society has changed because of the pandemic, so crime has changed, and as crime is a monitoring of society, we must respond to the demand not of society but of indicators of crime. So in the next revision of our penal codes, I call on the Greek state, the Greek Parliament, but first and foremost the government to become pioneers for the establishment in Greece of what is now gaining ground in global criminal science. To go through the justice of retaliatory justice from the justice of punishment to the justice of redress. We must take the defendant out of the castle and bring to the fore the rights of the victims, the thousands of victims who remain the missing factor in the criminal procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr. Cigri. Before we continue the list of speakers, we will give the floor to the Minister, Mr Economou, to develop an amendment and continue. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Amendment 1131/96, in particular Article 7. The amendment concerns the change in paragraph 6 of Article 8 of L.4339/2015. In substance, it concerns the possibility for our deaf and hard fellow citizens to monitor television programmes and, above all, information programmes. We are improving the framework with a point-by-point and a substantial improvement. The real improvement provides that providers of the information content must have as their request content - as is known to be video on demand - for a week's time the specific newsletter for this particular category of our citizens so that they can have access if they lose their live transmission for that day and for seven days. It is also about the fact that television stations are required to provide seven minutes of information in sign language, that is, with subtitles below, from one noon to 11 o'clock at night, instead of three noon to eleven o'clock at night. The people who support these newsletters in sign language will be indicated by the Greek Deaf Federation and obviously this amendment to nothing prevents, that is, the introduction of these minimum requirements, by broadcasters, from doing other things for these special categories of our fellow citizens, so as to strengthen their accessibility to the programme they transmit, in accordance with the European directive in force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u147	All right, thanks to the Minister. We will now give the floor to the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Villardos. You know you have half a year because of your President who has spoken. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the draft law is concerned, we shall only refer to Article 36, which replaces 191 of the Criminal Code, only to this, the dispersion of false news. In our view, it is absolutely inspiration and must be withdrawn since it no longer requires, act or omission on the part of the citizens because of some allegedly false news. It is only sufficient to note that this supposedly false news is capable of causing concerns or fears for citizens, threatening their confidence in the national economy, in the country's defence capacity or in public health. With regard to the latter, public health, this is a new addition, which obviously derives from governmental policy on pandemic. More generally, one will now be punished simply because one expressed even on the Internet, without there being any need for results. But who will judge? Who will decide whether a person's expression is news or simple thought? Who will judge that this expression was simply capable of causing all this? In this case, it seems clear that the motives of this amendment are political, in the sense that the government does not want to react to its choices. In particular, it seems, unfortunately, in practice that those who do not agree with the government's policies will be presented as false and dangerous, despite the fact that at least in the field of scientific progress with the question we rarely agree. On the other hand, even if one accepts that it is a false news that one expresses on television or radio, why is their owner punished? Why should he be responsible for the views of a third party, even someone who may have appeared only once in his midst? Is the position that this law exists, of course, for many years? Shouldn't the mistake be corrected? That is right, therefore, the representative of the Bar Associations of Greece pointed out that the provision insults democracy and the constitutional concepts of freedom of the press, as well as the expression of opinion, as we will be tabling in the Minutes later. We'll put it all together. Also, the spokesman for the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, like almost all the bodies, said that any modernistic arrangements are being lost in the multitude of provisions that cause reactions, describing Article 191 as a backwards one, while stressing that the right to express opinion should be avoided and the introduction of a state only truth. I repeat, he stressed that we must avoid restricting the right to expression - an opinion and the introduction of only state truth. If you do not care, Mr Ministers, for our own views, do you not at least care about these views of the judges, lawyers and prosecutors? Shouldn't you? What made us a great impression, however, is that no cost is provided from the General Accounting Office of the State. I'm an economist, I'm not a lawyer. Why, really, is it not cost? The reduction of crime, the tightening of penalties, the lack of flexibility in permits and releases, is not a matter of cost? The greatest policing doesn't increase the cost of personnel and patrols? Does the tightening of penalties not increase the cost of prisons and their staff? However, when the prisons are already saturated and new ones must be built! Does it not make sense to refer to sloppy, when we see such slants - in the Minister's expression - omissions? In the news, now, we think it is right to refer to the tragic situation on the labour market in our country, because one of the alleged successes of the government yesterday by the Prime Minister in the speech to his party is to reduce unemployment to 13.9% recently. In this regard, we will begin by the fact that this indicator should be considered in conjunction with the labour force participation rate in employment not on its own. With an indicator, that is, measuring the number of people who are actively seeking work, as well as those who are working at that particular moment. This indicator includes all people aged, while comparing the percentage of those who work or look for work outside the home, with those who do not work or seek work. Since it does not concern people who are working age but who have abandoned their search for work, the above index is considerably more reliable than the unemployment rate which actually underestimates real unemployment, since it does not take into account all those who have been unintentionally resigned, without their will, from the job search. Continuing the rate of labour participation can be influenced, both by short-term and long-term economic trends, more importantly, with regard to the latter, that industrialisation of a country tends to increase employee participation, while deindustrialisation, as seen in Greece, is causing exactly the opposite. The reason is that industrialisation creates employment opportunities and quality opportunities that attract people to work, so the index increases. In the short term, now, economic cycles and unemployment rates are usually affecting the participation rates of workers, where during a recession - such as the one we have experienced in Greece since 2010, with few flashes - the rate of participation in our workforce is continuously decreasing. Of course, since many workers who lose their jobs are discouraged, thus abandoning the search for work. In Greece now, in August 2021, participation in the labour force was only 51.3 % compared with 78.4 % of Germany, for example - when in Germany, of course, unemployment is just 5.5% - without forgetting that at least six hundred and fifty thousand Greeks, mainly young and high educational levels, have emigrated abroad to the time of the crisis, with the costs of training over 100 billion, as well as a GDP of 36 billion a year. It is with this that they have dominated the countries in which they have gone. Even worse, as regards the share of people at the age of the first job, from twenty-five to fifty-four years, in Greece in 2007 to 2020, it fell by more than ten percentage points, according to the IIF, so that Greece is again the sad champion in the European south and, more generally, in Europe. This, together with the increase in the share of women at the same age, which actually supports the index, but which ultimately does not compensate for its decline, substantiates its complete collapse. A huge problem our government faces, instead of facing it, hides it under the carpet, like so many others. Finally, it is frankly tragic that the Prime Minister should refer to a reversal of Brain Drain, on the basis that a thousand Greeks have returned to the country from the six hundred and fifty thousand who have left. A thousand of the six hundred fifty thousand returned. It is also tragic to claim that the Greek economy recovers when Greece had the second biggest recession in the European Union in 2020. We'll testify for all the paintings in the Minutes. It was the first to increase debt and spent most of the money on its GDP, 17.5% on the IMF, even more on Germany. A loan of 42.7 billion was granted - we stress, with loans, to achieve a recovery in 2021 of the order of 12 billion. A fact that reminds a company, which donates its customers 42.7 billion borrowers to buy its products by making a turnover of 12 billion. Isn't that absurd? So, give 40 euros with a loan to make a turnover of 10 euros? How the government is satisfied with its work, in a country with twin deficits, with huge twin debts, about 387 billion public debt at the end of June and 244 billion red private, with its GDP of 164 billion from 240 billion in the past, as well as with its external debt of USD 525 billion, increased by USD 125 billion in just three years. Does it not mean that the competitiveness of our country's economy is completely lost, despite internal devaluation? Should a government that borrowed 41 billion in just two years should not be ashamed of charging our own and future generations? It's unprecedented! It is the first government to borrow this huge real amount. Is the government not concerned with the energy dependency of our country after the depreciation of our lignite reserves, where it flew into the air of EUR 300 billion? Nor have wholesale electricity prices risen to nearly three times that of Poland? Not exactly? Does the government not understand that, by repeating the same experiment as in 2004-2009, which was overrun - this government - Greece, the result will be the same? Does he consider that populism, demagogy, lies, and the beauty of our country's sad economic situation is the right policy? Didn't he do the same with the management of the pandemic, resulting in chaos today? Sad. Really, sad! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u149	We continue with Mr. Kavada Athanasios from New Democracy. Wait a minute to prepare the Step, Mr. Kavvada, and then Mrs. Chapter Maria, too, from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, what happened in the four years 2015-2019 imposed a revision of the framework of criminal procedure and of the criminal code. The government consistently in its election commitments today brings to the vote an important bill aimed at modernising the criminal procedure, imposing rules, updating the penal code and strengthening the sense of security for citizens. The previous government's legislative initiatives in this area failed. The famous Law Friday, as well as the previous Criminal Code passed in June 2019, one day before the House closed down with few MPs had affected the sense of civil security and was in harmony with the same logic. Because there is no reason to dismantle prisons, which includes the release of dangerous prisoners for violent crimes. I would remind you that prisoners, such as lawyer Michalis Zafiropoulos's killer, were released under this law, and there were cases of prisoners who were released and arrested immediately after having committed other offences. He was released from prison for three women. He was sentenced to fifty-three years in prison and went out to ten years. From April 2015 to August 2019, ten thousand prisoners were released indiscriminately among them particularly dangerous criminals convicted of felony, and I submit a relevant post in the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Athanasios Kavadas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Even the Minister of Justice of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, Mr. Kontonis tried to put a brake on the provisions of the Law of Paradise, apparently understanding the degree of risk. That is why the New Democracy Government is coming today and is modernising the framework with changes, including: firstly, life imprisonment will be the only penalty to be imposed; then there will be no possibility of imposing a lower penalty for the offences of recent treason, homicide, fatal robbery and group rape. And life means at least eighteen years in prison. In recent years we have seen a dramatic increase particularly in women's murders, and even though this phenomenon needs a comprehensive approach, I hope and hope that at least the introduction of the maximum isobi penalty as a single penalty will act dissuasively in the future. Secondly, the standard conditions for granting dismissal may only be met if the prisoner has served four fifths of the sentence, while the dismissal is abolished under the condition of electronic surveillance. So far this limit has been in three-fifths of the sentence. These provisions concern crimes of the law on drugs in the distinguished form, crimes, terrorist acts, last treason, homicide, robbery, arson, forest arson, blackmail, child rape, trafficking in human beings, child snatching and all against sexual freedom. Thirdly, forest arson will be a crime to a degree of felony now and as such will be dealt with in the case of penalties after criminal sentences are provided for up to eight years and a financial penalty. I think that is the general requirement of society, because it is not unpunished to endanger or destroy lives, property and the precious natural environment without punishment. In fact, in order to punish the act, there is no need to damage it, but it is sufficient to risk harm. Let me remind you that the previous government had degraded the arson offence to a flood in its basic form. Fourthly, the penalties for the offence of serious physical injury are tightened up and disability and permanent deformation is added to the concept of serious physical harm. We all know the tragic case of the Vitrioli where the life of a young woman changed in seconds. The bravery with which she is confronting her wounds is admirable, but she also needs to feel a vindication and security that in future she will be such as to prevent aspiring suffering. Fifthly, the own-initiative prosecution is being introduced to insult sexual dignity in the workplace, and the time to report the offence is increasing to five years instead of the three months until today. There is now a need for indictment, i.e. a complaint of the act, and indeed within three months. The aim of the legislature is to allow time for victims to report the incidents, but also to facilitate prosecution procedures. Sixthly, penalties for the crime of trafficking in human beings are being severed. Finally, I consider it particularly important to tighten up the framework for crimes committed by minors. Self-prosecuting of offences against sexual freedom is being established when they are directed against minors, i.e. the prosecutor is even prosecuting with simple mention or information about the offence. As far as punishment is concerned, today, the offence of the robbery of a minor is punished according to the age of the minor. This means that it is punished as a flood if the child is between 14 and 15 years old and the prison sentence is between two and five years old. If the child is between 12 and 14 years of age by incarceration from five to ten years and if the child is up to 12 years of age by incarceration from five to 15 years. With the regulation contained in the bill, the seduction of a minor will be treated and punished as a felony in all its forms. Ladies and gentlemen, since November 2019 the Ministry of Justice worked intensively, but also soberly on them, so that two years later a bill combining scientific documentation with the satisfaction of society's demand for more security. And I would like to congratulate the Minister of Justice, Mr Kostas Tsiras, and also the Deputy Minister, Mr Kotsiras, and the entire Ministry's leadership of the outcome. Strict penalties are not an end in itself. The aim is for citizens to feel that there is justice, that the law can act dissuasively, but that there will also be proportionality in the penalties, that is, the one who, by means of his actions, turns against society by threatening lives and property, will consider it twice to violate the law, and if he is in the end violated, he will be punished not for revenge but just. That is why the government is preparing changes to the Criminal Code and will raise some serious crimes that the former government had made. I therefore believe that the bill is based on an enlarged front of logic within society, which is why Parliament is also demanding support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u151	Mrs Maria Head of the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u152	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating another important bill of law from the Ministry of Justice, the amendment of the penal code and the code of criminal procedure. The harmonisation of our criminal legislation with social reality is our obligation. It has also been a commitment of our Government and it is now being implemented within a reality that we are demanding to adapt to professional actions that are plagued. That is how we tighten up the framework of penalties for specific crimes of particular criminal value. We are reintroducing and expanding criminal offences in commonly dangerous offences, reshaping the framework of penalties and modernising provisions of the penal code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, and harmonising it with European conventions. Through this bill we face very specific social problems. Ladies and gentlemen, we are, among other things, extending the scope of serious physical harm to acts that cause the passionate risk of life or severe and long-term illness or serious amputation and disability or permanent deformation. Not only do we restore but we tighten up the device for serious physical damage and cover all forms of fault. It is our responsibility as state to ensure to the fullest extent the exemplary punishment of criminal acts such as the one that has shocked the Greek people recently and I am referring to the example of John. Now anyone with intent and premeditated aiming to cause serious physical damage will be punished by imprisonment of at least five to ten years. In addition, legislation must be followed by harmonizing and serving real life. In addition, we are turning the crime of arson and all commonly dangerous crimes from crimes resulting from abstract-risk crimes. What does that practically mean? It means that in order to punish the act, there is no need for the damage to be done, but it is sufficient to give rise to a risk. And for the purpose of enforcing life sentences, we are introducing the death of a man as a minimum. There is no need to demand a large number of people to show that these criminal acts are unforgivable both criminal and moral. The offence of forest arson is now deemed to be a felony with a life sentence of up to eight years and a penalty obligation. Let us not forget that it was SYRIZA who in July 2019 degraded it to a flood. If the fire in the woods has resulted in serious or widespread pollution, deterioration or wide ecological and environmental disruption or destruction, a temporary locking between five and 15 years is foreseen. We want to strengthen the deterrent character of the penalty, but also to protect the environment. We also take the act of rape with particular importance. We expressly mention the case where the passion is minor in relation to the prescribed penalty framework limits. In case the victim is a minor, then life imprisonment will be imposed. Nothing less. We don't show any tolerance. We protect children, we protect innocence. We are changing the time when the violations of trafficking in human beings, the predicament of minors and the offences against sexual freedom begin. With today's prediction of starting off for offences against minors only relates to felonies and starts from adulthood. Today the offence of childbirth is punished according to the age of the minor. We are changing this and this crime will now only be punished as a felony in all its forms. The limitation period shall be extended by one year if the act is a flood or another three years if the act is a felony. In this way, the possibility is specifically for these offences, which have a particular value, to have sufficient time in which the minor can denounce it and the state can prosecute so that there is no unpunished criminality. We are making the exercise of the criminal prosecution to insult sexual dignity and sexual dignity in the workplace and offences against sexual freedom against minors. Today these acts are persecuted by reference to the incident by the person concerned and within a period of three months. But this has resulted in this being judged as suffocating to denounce these acts since the victim has not yet been able to realize what has been suffered and to find the courage to speak. We are making it clear in the most emphatic way that the legislator's will for the absolute protection of the legitimate goods of life and inadmissibility. We are particularly sensitive to crimes relating to personal and sexual freedom and to the economic exploitation of sexual life. We are modifying the penalty framework under Article 323a of the Criminal Code on trafficking in human beings. We extend the criminal prosecution to the person who gets the consent of others by means of fraudulent means or by taking advantage of the vulnerability in which he is and also by increasing the planned years of imprisonment to at least 10 when the act is carried out in an occupation, by a staff member who, in the exercise of his service or who benefits from his or her status, commits or takes part in practice, is linked to the illegal entry, stay or exit of the person suffering from the country and fourthly results in the victim's serious physical harm. And if the act resulted in death then life imprisonment will be imposed. We are ruthless to those who exploit vulnerable social groups, such as minors, citizens of third countries, victims of sexual abuse and exploitation. These persons, because of their position and the abuse they have suffered, deserve increased protection from the legal framework. As a member of the Special Standing Committee on Youth and Human Rights and the Subcommittees against the exploitation of people and persons with disabilities, I can only accept with satisfaction changes that bring to the heart of legislation the value of human life and the rights to equality and justice. Ladies and gentlemen, this important legislative initiative by the Ministry of Justice is coming to solve specific social problems through the introduction of penalties that correspond to the gravity of the actions. The sloppyness with which the SYRIZA government was voted, and even a few days before the 2019 elections, the previous Criminal Code brought a number of problems. That is why we come with corrective action and restore the failures of the Criminal Code. It is our duty that our citizens feel safe and trust the institutions of justice. After all, justice is in direct contact with society and citizens. The brutal and irreparable criminality on the part of the state imposes a clean and strong response with legislative initiatives such as today's which is an important tool in the hands of judiciary officials. In the New Democracy we believe and always serve the rule of law and its principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Head. The next speaker was Mr George Papaliou from SYRIZA. You have the floor, Mr. Papaliou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I address the Minister who said that there is no proposal for us. Minister, our proposal is clear. However, since all those provisions of the draft law which annul the principles of criminal law, and in this case the principles of proportionality and leniency, have been removed. In addition, we have told all tons of it, the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure must remain as they exist, so that they can be judged in practice as well. Its application has lasted very little to determine their arrangements. That's our proposal. Our position. Your bill is inspired by a spirit of rigour and dishonesty, as is inspired by the spirit of "class and security" all your policy. A colleague from the Co-Police was asked to provide that the police officers would be exempted from provisions applicable to all other citizens. This reminds of the spirit of "the state is you" for the police of Constantine Mitsotakis. Now as to the current bill. In particular, it reflects the way the government legislates. It is characterized by curiosity, lack of overall planning in this respect for Greek justice. Its introduction and its individual provisions are linked to current up-to-date events, crimes that are over- and continuously projected by the media. They are linked, in other words, to the impressions, the headlines. After all, the slogan, because it is a slogan and not a position, 'every crime is punished', this proves. The fragmentary interventions contained in the bill lead to the breakdown of the coherence of the Criminal Code by dismantling its arrangements and undermining the efforts made to rationalise the system of penalties. Furthermore, the two-year-old passed Criminal Code has not been tested in practice, as I said before. This cancels the necessary legal stability and legal certainty. Excessive tightening of penalties is translated into more 'watch' for more people, without, of course, achieving the intended result of reducing crime, because there has been no criminal system which reduces crime by increasing or tightening the penalties. The bill, in addition to tightening the penalties for some crimes and the provisions on the actual dismissal, weakens the financial penalty, shrinks the institution of socially beneficial labour as a primary penalty that has already been suspended since 2019. And he's all "resurrected". But it is still expected, Mr Ministers. This will increase the number of prisoners in the already overcrowded prisons, leading our country to new sentences by the European Court of Human Rights. At the same time, the instruments for preventing and reintegrating the condemned are being neutralized. Of all this, it is obvious that the purpose of the government, which is no more than to implement an authoritarian and extremely punishing policy in the criminal system as a whole. In addition, on the basis of the proposed arrangements, the possibility for courts to personalise criminal treatment is limited. Provision of lifelong and temporary imprisonment, imprisonment or penalty shall be abolished and the exclusion from home of the rest of the sentence for certain categories of crimes. Ladies and gentlemen, the reactions and fear of the government for further reactions, due to the bad and constantly worsening state of affairs at all levels, especially in health and economics, are the reason for regulations which the government considers to be protecting and the interests it serves. Due to the uncovering of scandals and corruption cases, the Government is attempting to shape the framework and the conditions so that such assumptions are not disclosed, hidden, concealed and those involved in it do not account for them. It is a recent attempt to uncover the faces and identity of the witnesses protected in the "NOVARTIS" scandal. By specific regulation of the present bill, the criminal prosecution of protected witnesses for the offence of false testimony is permitted, which is the starting point for their protection to be waived. Of course immunity, ladies and gentlemen of the Com munity, for many others, friends and pillars of the system you are serving, the government is establishing 'principally'. As far as the regulation on the dispersion of false news is concerned. Even the Scientific Service of the Parliament decides that it is a question of the constitutionality of this legislation, as to whether it is compatible with the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights. The offence to disperse false news from a harm offence to an abstract risk offence is thus widened and the application is threatened, the constitutionally regulated freedom of speech and expression is threatened. According to the ‘analysis of the effects of regulation’ of the draft law in the proposed provision, public health is also explicitly included. In addition, it is said to be necessary, because during the coronary pandemic there has been a phenomenon of widespread news spread and a challenge of concern and fear among citizens. I wonder whether this is how - I would say that this is done - even scientific opinions are being criminalised. This is an vague arrangement which can include everything and leads to dangerous persuasiveness, which may threaten to threaten freedom of expression and speech to impose the logic of one truth and the frustration of another view of another. First of all, there must be clear and absolute separation between news and expressions of opinion, judgment and opinion. False publications cannot be the starting point for public speech, public debate and political controversy to be controlled and restricted. The criminalisation of public speech which is being attempted is contrary to the Constitution, any opinions and whether they are included or expressed in the public speech. Moreover, the regulation on the concern and the fear that can be caused, I wonder what the measure of this concern and the fear that can be caused will be. The breakdown of public confidence is a size not measurable. What must be avoided at all costs is the introduction of the one and only truth, the truth of your own, the government in question, and the persecution of all opposing views, a practice which easily spreads to censorship. Ladies and gentlemen, democracy is strong. It withstands the opposite view, withholds what is said or can be said publicly. The debate in the public sphere cannot be criminalised in this unacceptable institutional, legal and political way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u155	Next speaker, Mr Kouvella, from New Democracy. Then Mr. Lippi will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's very important bill we are debating is a requirement of society itself. Citizens do not forget the works and days of the previous SYRIZA government - ANEL. I would remind you that a few days before the 2019 elections you introduced in front of licensed penal codes, with the aim of satisfying your party audience, even at the last minute. You are, however, playing it in the run-up to forge human rights defenders and with ideological criteria, but you have imposed loose rules on a society that was then and still needs protection and security more than ever, you would say. We want a society of rules and proper law enforcement, and not a society where, in the end, life-long unpleasant consequences will be the victims only. In the committee I was amazed to hear contributions from colleagues from the Opposition Committee, and the last thing I expected was to change the criminal codes into a political controversy. Crime and hence the insult of top-class goods cannot be considered in terms of classic or political, ideological or religious convictions. With the changes that we are proposing, we are even stronger in our criminal arsenal, and we are setting foundations to achieve a double goal: crime prevention and repression on the one hand, righter and faster administration of justice on the other. The legislative gap created by the abolition or deterioration of a major criminal offence by the previous government and the mutant crime that has occurred in recent years require the changes we are discussing today. This is therefore another important initiative by the Ministry of Justice which comes to be added to many other initiatives that have evolved in the past two and a half years, but above all it is an initiative which we had already announced immediately after the elections, but it needed processing time to come to today's final proposed result. In short, I would like to say that in fact with the new Criminal Code and the new Code of Criminal Procedure, the framework of penalties for specific criminal offences is stricter. Life imprisonment for homicide, group rape, fatal rape, fatal robbery, child rape. And for the offences mentioned above, an actual penalty payment threshold for those sentenced to them is increased from sixteen to eighteen years. It has been heard that it is a communication reaction of the Ministry under the temporary social conditions that we all know. But here there are phenomena of racial violence which have led to brutal murders in recent years. There were crimes against minors who shocked public opinion and shocked all of us. There are forest arsons that destroy our natural wealth, belonging to our children. These crimes require the state to redefine its attitude. We cannot stay in the beliefs of other times. It is the state's responsibility to society to do so, obviously by measure, obviously on the recommendation of the appropriate representatives of the legal world. He's indebted to this. But who can disagree with the need for these changes? Furthermore, the condition of dismissal of sentences and the conditions for the lifting of criminals who have repeatedly committed serious crimes are stricter. So for drugs, for the establishment of a criminal organization, for terrorist acts, for robberies, for extortion, for trafficking in human beings, for the kidnapping of a minor, it is possible to dismiss one on terms after and from a beneficial calculation having served 4/5 of the sentence now in force. Furthermore, it is a dominant point and a pillar of the change that occurs now requires real stay in a penitentiary of 3/5 of the sentence to which one has been sentenced, contrary to the 2/5 currently in force. There is therefore a greater real stay in prison for these very serious felonies. I think that we cannot disagree with these changes too. The criminal offences are widened and reintroduced to some commonly dangerous offences, such as those at the expense of the environment referred to earlier, and of course the fishing off the sea is being reintroduced in our yacht by foreign fishing vessels and the penalties provided for are stricter. I think there's no question here, there's no disagreement. Our penal codes are being modernised on the basis of European conventions regulating minors' rights, regulating women's rights, and even speeding up the procedure and time-limits of admission to the trial for those offences. There has been a lot of talk about Article 191 of the Criminal Code concerning the dispersal of false news about public health and the protection of public opinion from the confusion that some people are intending to cause at this time about how to deal with pandemic. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that everyone's common place is that the only way to defend ourselves against the coronary is vaccine and respect for health measures. If we agree on this together with the vast majority of the medical and scientific community, then we cannot, ladies and gentlemen, express any reservations about the proposed arrangements. Because it has been heard that there is an attempt to censor or reduce different scientific views. In any case, on the contrary, it is the protection of the social system that the rule of law must guarantee. The House cannot - in my opinion - be a field of academic concerns at the theoretical level, nor can it, of course, become a political spiral on the basis of scientific instruments. The fruitful dialogue, the pragmatic dialogue and the right reason. These should be our tools to achieve the ideal results. We insist on Greece's rules and the security of citizens and not on Greece, where they act uncontrolledly 'bugs' and criminals who risk very little because of the favourable criminal framework that existed until the changes that we bring. As a New Democracy government, we do everything we can to return security and security to the neighborhoods, everything we can to protect public order and social peace. And in this fight we have allies themselves. We have been asked by the citizens to do so, and that is what we are doing. So, with this amendment, we are taking an extra brave step towards preventing and suppressing crime. The second and final step should be a series of measures in individual areas of the public sphere. We expect the immediate and complete restructuring of our police force, as well as stricter control provisions for acts carried out at the expense of the police officers, as the Minister for Civil Protection has already said. We also want an even better organisation and effectiveness of our penitentiary system, so as to result in penitentiary and not the creation of 'professional prisoners'. I also propose, Minister, a separate lesson in our schools to promote the culture of respect for human rights, the rights of the child and also actions aimed at establishing the sense of security for thousands of women who experience deportation and violence. The modern woman must feel our state and our jurisprudence system as allies and not be shy about the consequences of a mere complaint she will make. I submit to the Minutes the 'Smile of the Child' for the first half of 2021, where in the fifteen and a half thousand calls accepted by the 'Smile of the Child', 100% increase is recorded in the calls for child abuse and 1000% in the calls for women as victims of domestic violence. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kouvellas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I close by reminding what our great teacher in Criminal Law was supporting at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, your dear Mr. Lappa, Ioannis Manolidakis when he taught us how to act in a criminal environment that the state does not prepare for crime and the criminal does not do so. So we have only to support the changes that this draft law brings under discussion. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u157	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr Athanasios Ljupis from the New Democracy. Mr. Gikas, Mr. Markos, Mr. Dissakakis, Mr. Tsavdaridis and Mr. Giannoulis will be followed by Mr. Markou, Mr. Tsavdaridis and Mr. Giannoulis with whom the second cycle will be completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the way we choose as a society to deal with crime and the offender is crucial for the smooth functioning of social relations. Drakon's harsh laws in antiquity failed and were replaced by Solon's law. However, it is unfair to hear that today's legislative initiative only concerns the imposition of higher penalties. This is a series of changes in terms of legal efficiency, taking into account the principle of proportionality and having a web of legislation and justice that offers a sense of security to the citizens. But as it is not a solution to the extreme tightening up of penalties, respectively, it is not a solution and an unjustly tolerant attitude to serious offences. The previous government's legislative intervention has led to injustices and favourable treatment of cruel crimes. Today we seek to restore injustice and create a modern, balanced legislative framework by reforming the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. All this is achieved mainly by tightening the penalties provided for, by changing the framework of the current dismissal, and thirdly by speeding up procedures for specific categories of offences so that they can be heard more quickly. In the context of strict penalties, life sentences are imposed for the offences of homicide, group rape, fatal rape, fatal robbery and child rape. Such a moral decency does not leave the possibility of imposing a sentence of just ten years. In any case, let us not forget that the court has always been able to rely on the particular features of each case and on the characteristics of each of the perpetrators if it considers that the convicted person has to be recognized as a lightening circumstance, such as that of the previous honest life. Penalties are being increased for the severely intended physical damage. Given that the legislator has to adapt to current social developments and also given that there has been an increase in incidents of attack, such as by using a causal fluid, an addition is made to the definition of serious physical damage to include permanent deformation and disability. Our country this summer was hard hit by forest fires that broke out at the same time in many parts of the territory, causing terror, destruction of property and threatening human lives. Undoubtedly many of these fires were the result of arson action. The arson ceases to be a felony, and there is a proper felony. The physical integrity of an official shall be protected in the performance of his service. So for the first time, there is a particularly prejudicial offense against an official. There is also a stricter framework for the abuse of minors. There's a change in the crime of dispersal of false news. During the pandemic, unfortunately, the phenomenon of the transmission of false and misleading facts became common. This misinformation may well be responsible for the mistrust that has been shown to our fellow citizens with regard to the proposals of specialist scientists, such as vaccination. So misinformation has clearly cost us human lives. I am quite right to say that this article is recast and the case is added where people's confidence in public health is being shaken on the label of course that neither before nor now is the expression of opinion or opinion being criminalised, but only the dissemination of false facts. Critical at many levels, but also in the violations of Turkish fishermen, the reintroduction of illegal fishing in the sea zone and in the inland waters for which, under the current regulations, only a financial penalty is provided for. Another significant change in the bill is the stricter allocation of the term of dismissal for specific categories of offences, but such as terrorist organisation, drugs, child predatorship, and now 4/5 of the sentence from the 3/5 that has been up to now. We must recognise that there are indeed crimes that we must be more careful about when the offenders are released. At the same time, however, we are preventing unjust stay in prisons, as the release cannot be delayed, with the sole invoicing of a disciplinary misconduct. In recent years we have realised that it is regrettably common for minors to be afraid to denounce their offences, so that further time is given to both the defects and the felonies associated with the arrest and exploitation of minors at a later date. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sakhara Sakhara, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council,]] It is important and the change that is taking place to prioritise the offences relating to sexual freedom. A number of provisions are added to criminal proceedings aimed at not ultimately leading to imprisonment by those who have committed minor offences. For example, if you cannot pay the financial penalty imposed on it is not imprisoned, but it is confirmed in the tax office. Finally, with Amendment No 1127, amounts from the Energy Transfer Fund are being used for the award of a heating allowance. The Government supports Greek households who are overly burdened this year by the particularly high fuel prices. In conclusion, the Civic Opposition accused the Ministry of Justice of making an effort to adapt our legislation to modern forms of crime. But, if anything, criminal law must be timely, it must not close its eyes in cases of child abuse that are constantly on the surface, and it must incorporate changes to protect against all kinds of harassment at work for the protection of human life. If we ignore all this, we would be accountable to the Greek society. Today's legislative text is a carefully studied effort, a scientific documentation based on the findings of the Criminal Code Monitoring Committee made up of well-known lawyers, professors and applications of Criminal Law. Any attempt to zero this project and the entire effort of the government to keep criminal law in line with social reality is surely contrary to Greek citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Gikas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the creation, evaluation, correction and development of legislation are clearly the responsibility of the governments. This also applies to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure which are important tools in the hands of judiciary officials for the sake of justice. The Ministry of Justice must take into account the scientific opinion, the effectiveness of the current code, as well as the jewellery of the times and the social phenomena and develop the code. I would remind you that in 2019, a few days before the House closed, the Criminal Code was amended under particular circumstances by the previous government. The new Government has set up a Preparatory Commission for Monitoring the Criminal Code in order to examine the consequences of the implementation of the new Criminal Code and then make the necessary amendments. Now the Qualified Opposition accuses the Ministry of Justice and the Government of making general stricter everything. It is not legitimate, however, to say these things once we have seen its own legislative interventions, for example, the Act of Friday, which has caused most of the problems. In the end, as parliamentarians, but also as parties, we must make a firm stand on specific issues, which at least we in the New Democracy have done and continue to do. We therefore believe that for the offences of the last treason, the homicide, the robbery after murder and the group rape, life sentence should be provided for as a single sentence and not a life sentence of at least 10 years, as currently foreseen. We welcome that, for the first time, life imprisonment for child rape is explicitly foreseen. We are also up against the insulting of sexual dignity, the abuse of an incapable child, that is to say, people with mental incapacity or physical disability. And we agree with the stricter penalties for these offences. We think it is right that incest should be treated as a felony instead of a three-to-five-year imprisonment, as is currently the case. We also note that the Ministry of Justice has taken serious account of the inadequate treatment of violations of the Me Too movement and is taking necessary corrective action. Furthermore, the limitation of the crimes of smuggling or trafficking in human beings, as well as crimes of sexual freedom against minors, is now starting one year after adulthood in the event of a crime and three years in the event of a felony. This gives victims more time to denounce what has happened to them. To conclude, these are interventions that enhance the protection of minors, vulnerable groups, victims of sexual abuse or trafficking, while strict penalties are being tightened up to prevent such horrific acts from being carried out. I shall say a few words about the conditional dismissal. Often citizens are disappointed when they see prisoners, who have even been punished for serious offences, being released after a relatively short period of time, and in this case without having served most of their sentence. This changes with the amendment that stipulates that prisoners for specific offences will now serve 4/5 of the penalty of 3/5 currently in prison, while in total the actual length of stay in prison institutions is increasing from 2/5, which is now at 3/5. Also, in the event of life sentences being imposed, the threshold for actual stay in a penitentiary from the age of sixteen has been eighteen, which, in my view, Mr Minister, should not have been under the age of twenty. It is also worth pointing out that offences such as arson, floods or explosions, imprisonment - and this is important - no longer presupposes a risk to human or foreign property, i.e. crime of effect, but only the possibility of a risk arises. As far as forest arson is concerned, it will now be treated as a felony with imprisonment if an ecological disaster is caused, but life imprisonment will be imposed only if a man's death is abrupt and not many as it is today. I think that the summer events leave no doubt that we need a stricter approach to these acts. Finally, I would like to say a word about the great debate that took place on the amendment to Article 191, of course the Minister mentioned it in his speech on the dispersion of false news. This article is actually reintroduced in its first form. Here's a badge, and we're gonna have to clear it up. The concern was expressed that the amendment contradicts the constitutionally established freedom of expression of ideas and that the free expression of opinion by journalists or by anyone else can now be jeopardised. However, at the heart of the article there are false, erected news that impairs citizens' confidence in the security that the rule of law provides to them, rather than expressing opinions. I think this is a clear distinction that the judicial officers will easily see. In addition, the protection of public health is added, an addition that is necessary because of the pandemic. Even today, in the middle of the fourth wave, there are our fellow citizens who refuse to be vaccinated or even rescued because they believe these make news. This is unacceptable and, of course, there must be a legal procedure on this. In conclusion, the draft law is based on scientific opinion, but it has a strong political and social dimension. It takes serious account of the need for society to move towards a safer environment, but in this environment everyone knows that the offences related to the removal of life and sexual dignity will be severely punished and therefore the public will not be provoked on a legal basis. A modern Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure that restores the failures of 2019 and adapts the framework of the penalties needed. For all these reasons, of course we are voting in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Marcos has the floor from SYRIZA now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it really is admirable that many speakers from the Couple refer to the penal codes voted in 2019, stressing that they were voted a month before the elections and forgetting very selectively that these criminal codes are the result of ten years of work of approved law that had nothing to do with SYRIZA. This has been erased by their memory to you too, Minister. Do not try to repeat it every time in the same way. When attempting to assess a legislative initiative, such as the amendment of the codes, it is appropriate to answer two basic questions. Firstly, what exactly problems are they seeking to give a solution? And, secondly, what is the logic of these legislative changes? In your case, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the answer to both questions is very specific and I am very afraid of your ideological catastrophes. And I'm explaining. In other words, what problems do you intend to answer with the imported approaches - amendments? But, of course, in your communication problem about the insecurity and increased insecurity that citizens feel due to crime. You know, two months ago exactly a member of the New Democracy Parliament said: 'It is now necessary to reduce crime more than ever'. What other confession of failure do you want for your doctrine "law and order"? You are a government over two years, you have been elected by flag of convenience to fight against increased crime over SYRIZA and for two years, all you have been doing is visiting the channels to communicate from your TV to the tightening of the provisions to care for the ears of voters who want to think, for example, that if you throw thirty - eight bullets on unarmed Roma, you will achieve a reduction in thefts and burglaries. You have been doing this for two years. You have entered a television bid for criminal populism and you are now starting to legislate, which has been so well heard by our rapporteurs, by our Members. The Criminal Association, the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, the professors of law, the Bar Associations have made a clear objection saying that you are aware of this as a new area of law which is your inspiration, essentially the law of the self-invited punishment of television windows. Television law is being attempted today. Now, a legislative option which also answers the second question I raised at the beginning of my speech, to the question: 'What reasonable are your arrangements called for?' and there is no need to make a special effort to understand who is that the main philosophy of the conception of the legislation is the flooding of punishment and the lack of respect for the principle of proportionality. This philosophy stems from the most authoritarian and reactionary positions of one - I would call it - Balkan right. Ladies and gentlemen, many provisions can be invoked to prove the reasoning. I'll be enough due to two of them, because the rest of them have developed. Firstly, public service work - and Mr Minister, I am looking at you in person by mentioning this issue - is an institution that was legislated in 1991, has been implemented since 1997, and has been developed in 2007 that the services of juveniles and social education have started to operate. The contents are the alternative to the creation of penalties as the main penalty for injuries by providing service or work by the convicted in society and yet to the victim himself this provision of employment. It is a criminal institution that applies to all countries of the Western world, a worthwhile element of the rule of law of a liberal, modern democratic state, which is called upon to combine rewarding with redress justice. So you personally abolished this institution immediately. A long time ago, in June 2020 - note it, Minister - on my timely question, you said: "The structures of the CED are not ready to welcome..." The CED had replied that she is ready and acceptable. In fact, you said at the time that you spoke with prosecutors to accept the courts. Prosecutors then said they accept it and are ready. You said that we do not have monitoring structures and then you said that we have forty-six monitoring structures that are not enough. How many did you make in a year? Anybody? You said there's a question about the insurance of the prisoners. How terrible is it in a year and a half to solve the insurance issue? We want to be serious. In short, you said, I read from the Minutes: "I therefore believe that very soon, I want to believe at least by the end of the year, the end of 2020 will have completed this process that I described to you earlier." You said it for the end of 2020 and we're ending in 2021.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u163	Don't put the ball on the others now. It's a matter of basic dignity. With regard to the dispersion of false news, bring us back to the black past of the seven - year - old, slippery situations in the future with a pretext of many supposedly protections. That's why I talked about Balkan right. From the Orban government, draw your driver. You are currently bringing an extremely dangerous and complete provision. You're turning the spread of false news from a certain risk of crime as lawyers say, into a potential threat of crime. It's very different. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I won't be long, Madam President. You criminalize the personal viewpoint and manipulate the latest media that is not "Petottois". Means such as freedom of expression, freedom of the press are put under judicial persecution. Do you think every reason you've been sprayed will be afraid of this measure? Laugh. And I will give you two examples. You said about the pandemic. The pandemic is over. What will remain after the pandemic of this piece of legislation? You said something else in what you're writing. You said about the country's defensive capacity. Watch me, Minister. If anyone is dispersing false reports of defensive capacity, that is, if anyone says tomorrow that the freshmen we take grow old - and the submarines we've taken, they're aging - will it be persecuted, yes or no? Please answer me. I conclude by saying that you are the most populist government that has passed since 1974. You plunder in justice, plunder in public order and security, plunder in health, plunder in education. I think you should realize that the sooner you leave these benches, it will be much better for the place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, too. The floor now is given by Mr. Dashkos and then by Mr. Tsavdaridis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u165	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is another practical proof that the current government gives absolute priority to the security, fairness and well-being of society. The proposed amendments shield the social group from crime, which has blossomed in the previous government period, making the heart of Athens, the cities and neighbourhoods of the country, but also the remote areas, the hostages of violence and indiscriminateness due to the action of criminal organisations and the tolerance of our predecessors, who vote for the new codes twice - the second in the peninsula before their fall - created difficulties, problems, serious failures and failures. These failures are restored by this draft law. But the winners, ladies and gentlemen, are there because according to the general principles of criminal law they are tried by diligent law. However, mild infraction and serious crime are treated in a fully balanced way. Without asterisks and reservations, the stricter punishment for violent crimes is legislated. Now for the homicide, group rape, and for the first time for the rape of a minor, the sentence is one, life imprisonment. At the same time a protection net is spread to the socially vulnerable groups such as minors. They are now seduced into a felony and reintroduced into criminal law by minors. There is also a change in the time when the limitations of offences, trafficking in human beings, child grabbing, crimes against sexual freedom are being lifted. In fact, these offences in the workplace, as well as the insulting of sexual dignity for minors, will be persecuted automatically. At the same time, the framework for the dismissal of sentences on conditional terms, as well as the lifting of the dismissal of criminals who are repeatedly serious felonies. objective criteria shall be laid down for the calculation of the threshold for the creation of the penalty either by a beneficial calculation to four fifths or by actual building, increasing the thresholds for both the penalty and three fifths of the penalty and the penalty for life imprisonment to eighteen years. The criminal is also being extended to commonly dangerous crimes such as arson, which is now being standardised as a felony with a planned sentence of prison up to eight years and a penalty of money. A synonym is covered by legislative failures or gaps in prosecuting and punishing criminal behaviours such as dispersing false news. We are all witnessing the practice of psychological operations carried out by strange spaces and strange centres at the expense of a feared people in a small percentage, of course, of which we all receive. The management of crises, such as health, with which we have been facing for two years, requires national unity, unity and cohesiveness above all. There are no divisions and social extremisms. Unfortunately, some do not hesitate on the altar of personal and political benefits to work on the pandemic, causing the effects of anxiety and panic on citizens and even endangering public health. With the amendment, Minister, the regulation on the dispersion of false news protects social fabric and social peace. Mr Ministers, I am pleased that the proposed amendments included my report through parliamentary scrutiny on the issue of a general suspension of penalties, as I had developed and documented in my written question. In crimes involving the exercise of violence against persons within their homes and their privately closed workplace - and we have many examples, we have many victims - of invaders for the purpose of stealing, robbing or other criminal offences, the sentence is not turned into or suspended under any circumstances. The new amendments are now being introduced in the event of a robbery, which is the death of a person or a serious physical harm, or if the act was carried out with particular cruelty against a person, it is, of course, necessary - and this is the case - life imprisonment. They highlight over time the issue of the decongestion of prisons, which can only be achieved through visionary and innovative proposals and not by discounts, as has been done so far. The introduction of the foundation of socially beneficial work to minor offences is such a proposal and I am particularly pleased that it is adopted in this bill. With the current code the court in the event of a convict for the prevention of other criminal offences has only once again been granted a penalty of custodial freedom. The new amendment enables the court to have as its first weapon the provision of socially beneficial work. Only if he considers that such a penalty is not sufficient, he ends up in a custodial sentence. I look forward to synergy, Mr Ministers, with Katechaki, as I am sure you will also look at my other proposals, which I very much highlight through my knowledge and experience, and which will put an end to organised crime and terrorist actions at the expense of the country and of this people. Ladies and gentlemen, the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure are being modernised in order to meet the characteristics of the new crimes. Let us be accused of strictening the Criminal Code. The answer is the arrest of criminals, terrorists released by the well-known Act of Friday. They're still in history. We and with this bill fulfil the Greeks' expectations, by restoring security and social peace and above all the cohesion of the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u166	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Tsavdaridis now has the floor and immediately after the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Brutsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u167	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the extremely important bill for amending the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure that we are debating today in the Greek Parliament comes to adapt criminal legislation to social reality and to criminal activity, which has changed its quality and quantitative characteristics. We are actually stepping up the security and protection of the social system from crime, while at the same time covering the legislative gap that caused a series of failures in the existing Criminal Code, so that our legal system responds more effectively to the demands of the times and enjoys maximum public confidence. How do we implement this? With a four-fold interventions and regulations that include the adaptation and stricter application of the penalty framework for specific criminal offences that were degraded by the previous government and their upgrade to felony, the stricter dismissal of sentences on terms, as well as the lifting of the dismissal of criminals who are repeated serious felonies, the reintroduction and widening of expulsion of offences related to the environment and climate crisis, and the absolute priority of interrogation and the introduction to the audience of cases of exceptional nature or felonies related to crimes against the sexual freedom and economic exploitation of the birth-long life. Why should we do this? But, because it's beyond all reasonable to be in jail for goddess, criminals are criminals for guilty crimes, and after five years they've been released as if nothing was going on, as is happening to this day. Because it is beyond all reasonable that our state should be confined to penalties - a waste for the offences of last treason, homicide, group rape, fatal rape, the fatal robbery, which, with the current Criminal Code, instead of being punished with the sole punishment of life sentence, are punished divorcingly and with the sentence of at least 10 years of imprisonment. Because it is disgraceful to fall into the soft, that is to say, temporary imprisonment of up to ten years, those who are responsible for acts that cause serious physical damage, disability or even permanent deformation, such as the case with the vitriol that we have recently experienced as a Greek society. Because it is unacceptable to turn unrepentantly into society, having only served three fifths of their sentence, translated to a real extent just two fifths of the sentence, those who were convicted of setting up a criminal organisation, for terrorist acts, for trafficking in human beings, for the kidnapping of a minor. Because it is outrageous that incest and rape of a minor should not be punished as a felony, but that they are treated until now as a crime by penalties - shameful two, three to five years. Because it is challenging to burn every year thousands of acres of forest due to arson and at the same time to not only standardize this crime as a felony, but unfortunately as a flood, as it was degraded in its basic form against the rule of SYRIZA. Equally provocative is to treat arson with existing legislation only as a crime of result, that is to say as a crime if the damage occurs, instead of an abstraction of abstract risks leading to exemplary punishment and only to the risk that this action can cause. Because it is incomprehensible that there should be no provision for the possibility of removing telephone secrets in the list of offences under Law 2225/1994 for acts of serious intentional physical harm and forest arson, so that every man who is more easily able to sit on his bench, but also because it is reproaching that there is no self-determination of sexual dignity in the workplace, shameful behavior, which, unfortunately, hurts the bodies and souls of hundreds of unprotected victims, yet only a few times is brought to justice, as few people are condemning such cases in fear of their subsequent dismissal from work. The state, ladies and gentlemen, has a duty to adapt to the new data of a new era that daily life itself imposes and defends the achievements of social security and peace in order not to turn our culture into a jungle. It is disappointing that the Acoustic Opposition is pretending to be the sensitive tool by stumbling out for tiny-party benefits anything that can work from Me Too to the fires, and at the same time we who are trying to rationalise the Criminal Code to blame us for the murder of codes, the blind supposedly severeness of sentences leading to the collapse of the penitentiary system and the allegedly hidden agenda of the government, in order to lead us to private prisons. Listen, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA: You who are exercising this splendid criticism, you probably want to forget that you voted for the previous Criminal Code almost in secret and on the knee one day before the Greek Parliament closes for the 2019 elections, so there are bodys of problematic provisions requiring changes from the new New Democracy Government. You forgot that you voted for the new then Criminal Code in mid-June 2019 and because he was obviously so well studied, but also designed, you were forced only ten days later to make twenty-eight changes and amendments to him by act of legislative content. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I will be done in a minute. Even today, at the time when the government's legislation introduces by Article 191 the stricter treatment of the criminal treatment of uncontrolled toxicity caused by the pandemic of the fast news which is afflicting social peace, even expressly including public health because of the widespread dispersal of renowned rumors that cause panic and cost lives, some people are trying to frustrate freedom of expression. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy shields Greek justice day after day for the benefit of our society and its own officials and to the perpetrators of all those who want it obsolete and artisanal. To this end, this bill is not just a welcome reform, but a necessary section that deserves cross-party consensus and support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, the Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics is tabling its report at the request of the Public Prosecutor for the granting of authorisation to prosecute a criminal prosecution against a Member. Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, has the floor now. Here, Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u169	What does the government want? It seeks to reform and modernise the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Criminal Code. Is this something important? Very important, joint statement from all sides of the House. Even outside the House each citizen recognizes the importance of the project. Why is it important? First of all, it restores the sense of justice. And what does it mean to're-establish the sense of justice for citizens'? Two very important things. Firstly, they are the two main components for democracy and its functioning and, secondly, they are the important element in the necessary social cohesion and social peace. That is what we are trying to do today, that is what we are discussing, that is the bill proposed by the government. I listen with interest to the SYRIZA side, a well-qualified project of this importance, reformist, such as the change of the Criminal Code and the Code of Civil Procedure. The side of the Officer's Opposition raises different objections, in another direction. It says, for example, the bill: "The bill is handy." That is an argument. The second argument is that it is not well prepared, it has not been prepared well. Thirdly, it does not have the necessary scientific documentation. I have heard Mr Lappa and the committees that this last argument was primarily the basis of his opposition position, so also SYRIZA. When we hear these things, we are really obliged, Mr Lappa - it is rhetorical to refer to you as rapporteur - to make a correlation with what you have done - because you have now been a government, you have now deleted four and a half years of government - in the corresponding attempt to change the Criminal Code. Many speakers have said so, and I repeat it, because it is very important to oppose your arguments. A few hours, days before the opening of the 2019 national elections, SYRIZA's change of the Criminal Code came quickly and without the necessary consultation time, on the eve of elections. And just before, the spokesman on behalf of the New Democracy said, because I had forgotten that, in a few hours' time after, precisely because of the failures he had and which were not well prepared, you have quickly legislated over twenty changes by a cabinet act. That was the right way of legislating? That was well prepared and today is not well prepared? I shall respond to them, however, because they have their political value and importance. However, ladies and gentlemen, I think that in order to put into the essence of the project which the government is seeking to change the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, four questions arise to be answered. Firstly, are we happy as a Parliament and as a Greek society with the current state of the Criminal Code? Is the country's legal world happy? Second, why does it change? Why does it really change? Let's see why he's changing, see why he's changing, why he's trying to change it. Third, if it changes, what direction does it change? And the latter, which is also of great importance, is this: has it been done in a good scientific way or has it been quickly? I will seek to get into these four questions and answer them, because I think that is the essence of political searches in such a reform and change introduced by the political leadership of the Ministry of Justice. What ordinary citizen in Greece today, ladies and gentlemen, by catching the pulse of everyday life in the world we are discussing does not say that crime has changed? Who doesn't see the crime change? We've been criminalised not only in the frequency of execution, but also in a way of execution, such as violence, rape of minors, homicides, felonies, unprecedented crime. Isn't that a reality? Does this not make the need to change the existing framework without synchronising social reality? Does this not lead to the conclusion that the Greek society feels that it is not satisfied with the law, as is expressed today by the sanctions of Criminal Law? This, then, shows the need for change. The second question is whether there is a feeling in society that there is justice through this Criminal Code. Ask anyone you want, ask out: Are you happy with the criminal sanctions that are currently in place in criminal offences, to which I will not say again, because they have been mentioned and with examples and recently we have seen their violence on television and are having daily conversations. The answer, ladies and gentlemen, is simply 'no'. Citizens feel, society itself feels that there is a misgiving between criminal sanctions, penalties and crimes. That's the reality. What does that mean? That there is a diffuse feeling that there is no justice, the way it should be attributed to the country's existing criminal framework, and at the same time, unlikewise, the citizens would respond, because we here are expressing the citizens, as is simple, that there are cases which have disproportionate criminal sanctions. It's just that things like defects have much heavier sanctions, disproportionate to those with heavy crimes. Does this not bring about the need for change that the political leadership and the government today bring about by changing the Criminal Code? Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this is the core of the necessity of the project today by the political leadership of the Ministry of Justice, Mr Tsiaras and the Deputy Minister, Mr Kotsiras, the government as a whole by bringing this great reform to justice. And now let us respond to the last argument I have also heard many times, that the bill is handy and scientifically not enough. Ladies and gentlemen, when you brought the Criminal Code, the Government as Opposition was committed that this whole framework, firstly, will be reviewed and, secondly, it will change. We weren't in agreement. Remember, then you were government. We said we were going to change it. So it's not surprising. It was a real political commitment, which is now taking place. Second issue, did we do it immediately the next day? Oh, no. We made it rough without the necessary consultation time? Oh, no. Done at the knee, is that a scientifically insufficient text? Oh, no. Why? You heard the Minister of Justice. Immediately after his duties - he was known to all - a seventeen-member committee was set up by the best scientists. There will always be comparisons with others who are evaluated with a good assessment in the field of legal knowledge. Although I am an economist and you lawyers, I say that those who at least read the curriculum were one of the best, professors of the University, Legal Schools of Athens, Thessaloniki, Thrace, prosecutors high-ranking, judges high-ranking, top-level lawyers. These two whole years did just one thing: they reassessed the entire Criminal Code, co-ordinated all of what they took from the old Criminal Code into social reality and the necessity of calling for society and life itself through increasing crime and serious crimes and brought this suggestion. This suggestion is the proposal of the political leadership of the Ministry of Justice that we now have before us to vote on. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the reality and this is what we are trying today as a government, a modern criminal code, a change of political procedure that corresponds to social reality, a social necessity in a single direction: a sense of justice spreading again. I know that this is something very difficult. Enemy of good is the best. Justice is very relevant to everyone, depending on how it is recruited. But we certainly went a step further in front of this law, and I believe that this project, in addition to the different approaches you have, in line with what I have said and according to what you have heard from the rapporteurs in New Democracy, you should welcome it. All your arguments, those four that I said at first, that it is not a scientific text, that it is not enough, that it is not equivalent to social reality, that it came quickly, that the necessary consultation was not done, they collapsed. All of this, as I described you, Mr Lappa, is quite different. On the issue of Article 191, you also heard the Minister. It's nothing new. It's been something that's been going on for 50 years. But you have heard the very appropriate example of our rapporteur, Kostas Karagkounis, who deserves attention to this in order to understand what we are trying to do with this provision, in the case of Kamaterou. The older ones remember her. It was the case of someone who sold as a news that he found the cancer medicine. We remember the oldest - young children at that time - who were running behind lorries - agglomeration, people - who were sharing the famous 'Kamater' water, taking it to heal the cancer they had. Question: Has it ever been scientifically evaluated how many people died of this misery that had occurred at that time? Should this not be the subject of criminal justice? Do we have to let rumors leak with repercussions on people in terms of health, deaths? Is that what justice and the Criminal Code teach? Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the government today is even making a reform leap in the area of justice for the benefit of society, justice, social cohesion, which is an essential element in the functioning of society itself and democracy. I hope and believe that by the end of the process you will change your attitude and vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u170	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now Mr. Giannoulis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Brutsis, I will ask you with great humility and modesty, and I would say very much to you: When you spread or try to convince a people that we are going through the last mile of pandemic, when you try to convince a people that we defeated the coronary, when you attempt for micro-party and micro-political reasons to shape a framework of success in pandemic, what exactly is it? Does it get into what you've just described about the "water of Kamater"? I know that this question has many tensions, but many times we can have a matching to the reality we are experiencing. I wanted to draw your attention, Mr. Brutsi. I didn't do it, but people really judge what it is about reality and what it doesn't. Going into the bill, I say: You know, more generally, the attempt to legislate of the New Democracy reminds me of a very strange page of Greek journalism, the yellow press. The yellow guy, do you know what kind of practice he's got? Usually there is an attractive and provocative caption - title and legislatorial in ninety-five times the title and content of the report have none, but none of the relevance. This practice is also found in the way of legislating, even from very serious New Democracy officials - yes, there are - as Mr Tsiaras is doing in the case of this legislation. They're accusing me of usually avoiding me staying on the matter of the bill. However, I will give you a very practical example of what great, crocodile tears and paradoxical legislative practice mean in a matter that is directly related to the bill and is perhaps the most sensitive of all: minor children, the abuse of minors. I would like to remind you, Minister, that in previous years, the government that has been so fireful - and it is your only argument for your government's inertia, that is to say, opposition to the opposition to cover your government's inertia - had proceeded to the establishment and preparation of a high scientific adequacy and efficiency institutional framework for the abuse of minors. I can develop you with the slightest detail on the Houses of the Child, on how scientific teams were created and on the preparation for the examination of minors who had fallen or have probably fallen victim to abuse and a series of actions - I do not have the time to develop them as a whole, but I would like to refer you to the relevant ministerial decisions, legislative initiatives - which have happened to the reward and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. I'm not saying this, considering it to be the ever-changing or sacred totem of a political reward, but to see, because it's common to treat and react "e, well, all of this is SYRIZA's ideas", that we had reached a result. Do you know what you've done? You cancelled everything by direct delegation to the EBRD. For those who do not know it is the development company of self-government, it handles voucher at kindergartens. It has come from far away, since the early 1980s as an institution in relation to self-government. You nullify all the previous ones, you nullify the work of renowned scientists from the area of law, social sciences, and you are commissioning 100 thousand euros from the beginning to have a modern framework on how to deal with the situation of a juvenile child who has either been abused or who may or may be considered.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u172	It's different things, Mr. Yannoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u173	Minister, it's no different. You're right, but I'm actually staying. I say that in this country where a number of issues do not have a government mandate, they do not evolve along the lines of the Mitsotakis or the respective Prime Minister. They are political decisions and legislative initiatives that must highlight problems in the future. In this case, I say that a bill today could cure the failure of anyone who did it, eradicate two and a half years of work for the abuse of minors and directly assign this issue to the EBRD. It is something - I tell you not only by addressing your status as a minister but also as a doctor - which is cured, which can be cured, not only by legislative but also by political failure, Minister, which says that on such sensitive issues we do not have the courage to continue, improve, progress and not hysteria and insistence to reverse the political cost to our political opponent. One last thing, Mr. Chiara. My colleague, Mr Kokalis, asked you directly. The doctors of the hospitals of Thessaloniki are currently working over the limits of their biological and physical endurance. Is that what I am doing in the context of the rules laid down in Article 119? At the moment, citizens in Thessaloniki are at risk, beyond all else, with degraded quality hospitalization benefits. Is the reality under Article 119? Currently in the hospitals of Thessaloniki there are people insulated outside the ICU, in simple rooms. Does this fall under this article? Do I not make the enthusiastic preacher of the syndicate defence of the space that I served for more than twenty-five years, but with so much difficulty to address the issue of freedom of press, ethics of journalism, information, public sphere, respect for politics and of journalism in politics and power, with extremisms, and, in fact, to restore tactics that had actually been rejected in the social and professional field? I would remind you of the typical Venizelos law which actually led to a 'industrial' of urban conduct, Minister. Here we are talking about criminal justice, but I want to tell you that one of the most precarious areas of social action and political action in this country is something that in the other countries have done so self-evidently, are the institutions of specific, control mechanisms in particular, not in the sense of punishment or preventive censorship, but there is certainly a better way of not getting to the painful phenomenon of Greek Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, to invent different journalistic culture in the Netherlands from Greece, as in the Netherlands the culture of hard auditing is something different, that Greek journalists do not have and is planted like potato, say in the Netherlands. We can do a lot, but we can do it with composition, not with the absoluteness and function that I described before, the "yellow" journalism. Unless - and I close with it - you are surprised that Mr Mitsotakis was surprised yesterday to find himself in one of the rare times in an unprotected environment, if we are surprised by the reality that exists and not by the dreaming that Mr Mitsotakis considers to be ruling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr Manolakos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our Government has consistently and responsibly been committed to restoring the rule of law and citizens' confidence in the administration, which has largely been shaken in recent years, brings this bill to the vote. Really, how security do our fellow citizens feel when they are more and more aware of how easy it is on the one hand to lose what they viewed as a given and self-evident? Life, health, property, dignity, the free development of personality and so many other goods are fundamental achievements of modern societies of Western civilisation and every orderly state has a duty and obligation to ensure them. The legislator as a regulator of the proper functioning of the state has an obligation to be a living part of society, to have its antennas all over the place, to disguise the popular feeling, to feel the needs of the citizens, to understand when society is on the right track and when it is on the revolt and to rush to bring those arrangements that will restore the order of things. Ladies and gentlemen, if the legislator does not act like this, he is not just a bad legislator but also a dangerous legislator. So, referring to this bill, I dare say that it is the incorporation into legal provisions of the desperate cry of Greek society for more security, protection and justice. The proposed draft law includes a variety of amendments and improvements, streamlining the penalties provided for and reintroducing important provisions which were either abolished or degraded to defects by bringing down penalties and causing the legal feeling. At the same time, our legal weaponry is even more shielded against criminal behaviour and harmonized with European conventions on the protection of victims, especially minors. Madam President, both the rapporteurs and other colleagues, excellent lawyers, have mentioned the provisions that have been put to the vote. I will personally highlight some of the things that I consider to be most important, such as life imprisonment that is now a one-way street for the offences of last treason, homicide, group rape, rape against minors, fatal rape and fatal robbery. The provisions which are stricter, with regard to penalties, to felonies and which cause the popular feeling, such as homicide, rape and robbery after murder, but also to dismiss the sentences on condition, have no other purpose but to create a security climate for citizens. Especially on conditional dismissal, we saw convicts being released in a very short time, once again committing the same crimes and causing popular anger. We have, for example, reached a sentence of 15 years for these crimes to extend to six years, with the two-fifths that are currently in force, while the new law goes to three fifths, namely nine years. Even life has come to sixteen years. Now at least it goes to eighteen, which, Minister, I have to tell you that the ordinary world does not think it is enough. Of course, we do not forget that the purpose of dismissal is human. The hope of liberation works better for every prisoner. However, we must not lead to overreacting from the disposition of the convicted. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a world where sexual abuse, sexual exploitation for profit, acts of violence in the workplace, crime against women and minors have become the scourge for modern societies. It is for this reason that the new amendments tighten the existing framework for serious crimes, for sexual crime, for crimes against the sexual freedom of minors. I believe that society is leading developments and the state is obliged to follow. In conclusion, I honestly wonder why the strong criticism of the Officerial Opposition about the changes they are trying to make. Of course I understand our ideological opposition, the populist opposition to the rejection of government initiatives, as well as the availability of some of the components, that is to say, of excessive leniency in dealing with illegitimate situations. However, this does not justify the universal refusal to produce legislative work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, Madam President, there is no doubt that the bill is in the right direction, since it expresses the needs of the social group for more security. I therefore invite you to vote in favour of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Maraveyas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u177	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard once again a number of objections from the opposition and quite unnoticed criticism of an absolutely necessary legislative initiative. And perhaps, as far as opposition parties are concerned, we should expect that. But during the preparation of the draft legislation in the committee responsible, we have heard some other things that have not been expected. So the SYRIZA rapporteur directly stated that the government with this legislative intervention is causing cross-cutting injuries and murdering the Criminal Code. Perceptive extremity, perhaps, with the aim of impressing? No, I think that this position of the minority rapporteur is genuinely expressing the Qualified Opposition as a whole. This is because SYRIZA, as we all remember, had thrown all his weight behind the previous Criminal Code, which was finally passed just days before the 2019 elections. That Penal Code was clearly a creation of the retreating government of Tsipras. After the outcry, he rushed back to hide behind a nomadic committee to explain SYRIZA's bizarre study to vote for this piece of legislation, marginally shortly before the dissolution of the House. Madam President, the truth is that today's Criminal Code has nothing to do with that of SYRIZA. This is a piece of legislation with completely different philosophy and objectives, which is understandable because SYRIZA does not agree. The aim of the Ministry of Justice this time is different, but it is very specific: To tighten the sentences for specific criminal offences of particular criminal offences, tighten the dismissal of sentences on condition, as well as the non-dismissal of criminals who are repeated serious crimes, widen the criminal for offences with great social and moral deception, such as sexual and life-threatening crimes, absolute priority in the conduct of interrogation and introduction to the audience of cases of exceptional nature or crimes involving crimes against the sexual freedom and economic exploitation of sexual life. The fact that SYRIZA is not only in line with the above changes, but also considers them to be "killer" of the Criminal Code, is something that should explain to the people and their families, children who were abused or the young girl who was deformed after the attack with a vitriol, women who are being sexually exploited or raped. To all of these, the Qualified Opposition owes an answer today. But I would say that he also owes an explanation of what the former Minister for Justice of the SYRIZA himself, Mr Kontonis, accused him of making new complaints a few days ago about the SYRIZA's attitude as a government against criminal justice. He spoke of erected charges by the government against another distinguished strain of the SYRIZA itself, to discredit this executive politically. Mr. Kontonis spoke of "character killers" in the visa case of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In fact, he also denounced the method of judicial prosecution. And perhaps that is where the SYRIZA rapporteur, SYRIZA's adorable rapporteur, should look for the "killer" of criminal law. Minister, in order to demonstrate the enormous difference of understanding between the government and the opposition, it is sufficient to see where the reaction exists, in other words what the other parties oppose and what the New Democracy supports. The new Criminal Code only provides life sentence for the offences of homicide, group rape, fatal rape and fatal robbery. These offences with the current Criminal Code are alternatively punished with temporary imprisonment and a single life sentence is now foreseen for the rape of a minor. He is being persecuted against the sexual freedom of minors and sexual practices with minors are considered to be a felony. Today these offences are punished according to the age of the minor. The offence against adults is restored, as SYRIZA's abolition created a significant gap in its criminal treatment and stricter penalties for trafficking in human beings. If death is the case, life imprisonment is imposed. Standard dismissal conditions shall be verified as appropriate. In particular, for drug offences in distinguished form, criminal organisation, terrorist acts, robbery, blackmail, trafficking in human beings or child grabbing, a possible redundancies will only be considered if four fifths of the sentence have been completed. The limitation of the offences of trafficking in human beings, the predicament of minors and the offences against sexual freedom is changing. The limitation shall now start with the adulthood of the minor by extending one additional year if the act is a flood or another three years if the act is a felony. In this way, there is an opportunity to have sufficient time, during which the minor can denounce them, so that the state can prosecute them so that they do not remain unpunished as a result of limitations. Ladies and gentlemen, the need for changes in the existing legislative framework, which SYRIZA had voted for in bizarre and bizarrely, is undeniable. The Greek society has repeatedly responded to the relaxation of the provisions of the Criminal Code on Violent Crimes and does not accept the uncritical jurisdiction of the Anti-Population in favour of the criminals. This is because it is a minority obsession, which reminds us of the complaints made by the then Minister for Justice of the SYRIZA, Mr Nearly, about the deliberate deterioration of the criminal treatment of specific offences voted by the previous government. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis with the new Criminal Code comes to reverse this situation, strengthening the security of the social group from crime and the protection of the most vulnerable, such as minor children. Those who refuse these obvious improvements must explain why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Avramakis now has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u179	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am listening here to the Members of the Chamber who speak of organised crime, of common crime, of intimate crime, and I remember attributes in September 2019, representing President Alexis Tsipras at the opening of the stand of the Greek Police of the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, of the words of then Minister Michalis Chrysochoidis, who, by addressing police officers, its officials and official guests, has made it quite clear in an absolute and unequivocal manner that he will hit crime within a year and within a very short time the Greek citizens will feel safe. He had even said features that no criminal, burglar, criminal, terrorist, will avoid the arrest and administration of justice. It's been a long time since. Unfortunately, infraction and crime have increased. Organized crime orchestras in the center of Athens and its suburbs, gunshots on busy streets, murders of journalists day after day. These are all questions to which you must answer, because you have been committed since then. Of course now Mr Chrysochoidis is a past, but your government is here. Once again, thirdly, during the term of office of this government, we are faced with a fast track project to reform the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, a project that is being created in its own right and which is completely inspired by a criminal populism without precedent. I would not particularly like to focus on the reforms of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is mainly technical. However, I would like to refer to the more general spirit of the proposed amendments to the Criminal Code, which is linked to the ideological conception of the ruling party for the management of power, for democracy itself. So what is this spirit, ladies and gentlemen? It is certainly a long way from the concept of the New Democracy's party in the past, from its liberal tradition. Characteristic of this bill is the draconian stricterisation of penalties for a number of crimes, in an effort to create a plating sense of security for the citizen. Through this bill, the Ministry, invoking the need to revise criminal policy on the basis of social necessities, which occur at times, seeks to cancel all of Law 4619/2019, the liberal criminal reform of the SYRIZA government, which despite its individual failures brought a new era to our country's anti-crime policy. It seeks to annul the humanitarian and liberal nature of our criminal law, which has been strengthened by the above law and to promote an outdated criminal dogmatic with totalitarian tendencies. It is clear, however, that the government, in its pursuit, avoids such as the devil the hammering of concern to the essence of the problem. He is in no way interested in upgrading and modernising anti-crime policy, more effective penalising and strengthening alternatives, such as socially beneficial work, better founding of the rule of law in our country and the protection of citizens' freedoms, the qualitative and rapid administration of justice, which is what we need when we come here to legislate on Greek criminal law. On the contrary, the Ministry of Justice focuses on a superficial attempt to found the doctrine "law and order", while neglecting the principles of leniency and proportionality, always trying to convince the Greek society that it will be able to respond to the unprecedented outbreak of the last year's crime in particular as regards the cases of organic crime, to show that it is next to the Me Too movement, to protect the sexual dignity of minors. It is certain, in any event, that it is once again aimed at deceiving citizens, taking advantage of their need for justice and security, as it is scientifically documented that the increase in penalties does not necessarily lead to the reduction of crime, while at the same time leading to the congestion of penitentiary stores by making the process of penalisation ineffective. It is not what we need, ladies and gentlemen. It is not the increase in penalties in a number of crimes to cure the disease of crime. Without a justice system which will quickly and correctly decide and a penal system then that will enable those who pass through it, first to be confiscated and then reinstated into society, stricter penalties will only be a firework. Without the state taking on targeted positive actions and active social policies, which will provide outlets for people who resort to crime as their only way out, this bill will only be a stumbling of audience, asking for a state of avenger and punishment and for a temporary relief to feared citizens. That is why we should be discussing today. That's my opinion. Furthermore, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill the Ministry of Justice is also aiming to further limit the social area of freedom by making the stricter amendment to the provision of Article 191 of the Criminal Code for the spread of false news. The proposed provision has, on the one hand, an unacceptable alteration to the objective nature of the crime by shuddering it into a crime of behaviour for the punishment of which no result is required. It is only enough to disperse or diffuse false news to be able to cause concerns or fears among citizens, to undermine public confidence, to be able to cause concerns or fear to the citizens of the country or to public health. This is undoubtedly a monument of maladministration, which standardises in a completely vague manner a set of behaviours developed under the right of free thought and expression, which seeks and criminalises and therefore runs counter to Article 7 of the Constitution and the principle of 'no crime, no sentence without any law'. In addition, this provision provides for stricter penalties for both fraud and negligence. An undeniable objective of the proposed provision is to try to reduce citizens to social media, the only area of dialogue available during the pandemic. After all, no one can forget the Prime Minister's statement that social media threatens democracy. What if he's on the European top 10 to nearly 70,000 euros in sponsored Facebook posts in a semester? Since these instruments have become an outbreak of the development of opposition and have stifled too many of the government's policies, they are a place to impose restrictions. This is the spirit of the reform pursued by this bill, the spirit of the Mitsotakis Government, the treatment of dissidents as enemies and their intimidation by threatening punishment. I would then like to mention, Madam President, the amendment tabled by our party's parliamentary group on the creation of a grim situation when the crime is being committed against a person, whose offence occurred because of the characteristics of his gender, and the inclusion of feminine in the Criminal Code. We have heard the majority Members and the anxiety they expressed about the tightening up of penalties for a number of crimes against sexual dignity that are fully respected, even though we disagree with the effectiveness of the proposed provisions. We are therefore bringing to Parliament a matter of this kind which is shocking Greek society, and which concerns the abuse of women by their husbands or companions. It is necessary for the majority Members to show the same sensitivity to these provisions of the amendment and to vote in favour of them. Finally, Mr President, I would like to speak on the amendment by the Ministers for the Environment, Development and Finance on the creation of the Energy Transfer Fund, on the granting of a subsidy to consumers of electricity and gas, and in particular on the transfer of EUR 90 million from that fund to the public account to cover the heating allowance. A month ago, I had brought to Parliament the question of including district heating in the subsidised forms of heating for the year 2021-2022, as this was not until then included in these provisions. After a few days, a colleague of the parliamentary majority from Serres, a press release announced that after his intervention, he was finally included in the subsidised forms of heating and district heating. A few days ago, however, Mr. Besiropoulos, in response to my question and his statements, seemed not to include district heating in this subsidy scheme. We are coming back with a new question on this issue, as we have the amendment to be voted on, and I think it would be appropriate to add an additional amount to the sum of EUR 90 million to be transferred from the Energy Transfer Fund to the public account to cover the heating allowance and district heating. The latter concerns a lot of people in the Serres, Florina, Kozani and Ammonio and I want you to see this issue sensitively. Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, and I expect to hear about the amendment tabled by the Ministers responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u180	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to inform you that the debate today will be going to the last speaker in the fourth cycle, that is the number forty-eight, which Mr Boobas is. It is now up to the Minister to place himself on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Madam President. Very briefly - as long as it is done - ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present the amendments tabled by the Ministry of Justice, pending, of course, the legislative improvements, which usually come during the debate. The first amendment, which has a general number of 1133, and specific 98, has two chapters. In Chapter I, Article 1 stipulates that for the auctioning of mobile and immovable property, the auction is to be designated as a notary to the place where the confiscation was made. In addition, it shall be subject to the improperness of the number of allowances, benefits or other benefits which are at times adopted and granted for the purposes of social protection and emergency treatment, with a view to the uniform protection of such beneficiaries against all creditors. The period of protection for the claims of wages, pensions, insurance benefits or those provided for in special laws as ineligible shall also be extended instead of one day in one month from the day following payment to the bank account. Article 2 corrects some incorrect references to the transitional arrangements when voting for the Code of Civil Procedure. In Chapter II, in accordance with Article 3, we aim to facilitate the secretarial support of the Office of European Authorised Prosecutors, in view of the rational separation of each industry's responsibilities, while also addressing the risk of being responsible for it. Article 4 introduces a transitional provision with a view to speeding up and effectively handling pending cases now being dealt with by the European Prosecutor. Article 5 provides that judicial officers may participate in the legislative process which takes place at the initiative of the Vice-President of the Government - you know that he is responsible for the independent authorities - and, in many cases, for the rapid and effective administration of justice. Article 6 sets out the objective of rationalising the way in which judicial officers perform their duties, since their work so far exclusively in their Schengen registration system has prevented them from providing both judicial work and judicial work, which is not considered rational, given the uncertain need for more rapid administration of justice. Article 7 aims to redistribute the organic positions of judges by limiting the organic positions which have been vacant for many years because they have not served the needs of the courts and their transfer through their conversion to branches specialised in staff courts. Article 8 corrects incorrect references to the transitional arrangements when voting for the Code of Judicial Staff. Article 9 removes the right to show support to the Special Court in order to ensure equal treatment of arms in criminal justice, as well as to harmonise European legislation and the constitutional requirement of equality. The next amendment is the general number 1132 and specific 97. Article 1 of the proposed amendment applies to cases of non-compliance with an agreement on the communication of minors, which has been notably validated in accordance with Article 1441 of the Civil Code. Article 2 extends the criminal offence to possession beyond the explosives - which are already part of the regulatory framework of the provision - to arson materials, bombs or mechanisms. The malicious nature of the provision is also extended in those cases, firstly, where the person concerned bears the above dangerous materials during his participation in public meetings, irrespective of whether he is also involved in acts of disruption to the common peace, and secondly, where the operator owns, supplys or manufactures a large quantity of the materials mentioned above, which results in an extensive use. Article 3 reintroduces criminality to the offence of fraudulent medicinal products, since the abolition of them has had adverse effects on the protection of public health against the illicit production and circulation of defective or falsified medicinal products. Article 4 excludes theft and distinguishedft offences, pursuant to Article 372 and Article 374(1) of the Criminal Code, from the possibility that the law may evade criminal penalties, after a declaration by the persons responsible for dismissing their criminal prosecution. The need, ladies and gentlemen, for this regulation lies in the fact that the statement by the persons concerned is not always a product of free will, but is often made under the rules of fear of vengeance or of retaliation, to the detriment of those suffering from the accused. Finally, for the amendment with a specific number of 1130 and a special 95, concerning the Code of Criminal Procedure, the regulation introduced provides for the lifting of the confiscation of the articles seized in the proceedings, by order of the Advocate-General or the examiner, in order to avoid delays made before the courts and not to cause the consequences of such delays to the applicants for the lifting of the confiscation. Two thoughts, very quickly, on a report by Mr Giannoulis, on the attempt to reform the framework for the protection of minors, and this on the occasion of what has been heard about the "Home of the Child". From the first moment we saw that there was a very big problem with regard to the operation of the Child Protection Companies. Except for the Piraeus and Heraklion Minors Protection Company, if I'm not mistaken, the overall operation of most of the Minors Protection Companies in Greece is problematic. It is a responsibility that all of us must take on against minors and against a hypothetical obligation that the Greek state has. Personally, I have already announced that we are going to reform this framework and we will soon bring legislative initiative. So there is a great effort that we have been taking for a long time. As to the "Home of the Child", the 2017 Act was forgotten two years by the SYRIZA Government until it arrived in 2019 with a ministerial decision to update reality. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, how many loopholes we had to deal with and cover this whole period of time? And I say this, because very briefly - we could have done this these days - with the initiative of the Secretary-General, we have managed and operated the "Home of the Child" here in Athens, and you will soon see all of this and with how many problems we had to deal with, with how many loopholes and with how many issues that have happened to your own not to deal with. What you have done with social work has been the same here: You have made legislation without seeing what the necessity is and what is the prerequisite for doing so. But the truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that I am really surprised. Indeed, you are very sensitive to minors. And indeed, as I understand it, this invocation to minor children may also be made more frequent. Really, when since 2017 when you legislated, did you arrive in 2019 to make a ministerial decision, in those two years that were your sensitivity? Furthermore, susceptibility to minor children, when we reduce penalties for offences against minors and when they are recorded with great ease and speed of time offences to the detriment of minors? You know, it's good to come to Stepma and move the finger on various issues that might be considered more generally, but it's good to see what he did earlier. You have just proved, with your political choices and with what you voted on, that not only were you not really interested in minor children, but instead you have taken care in every way to actually create such conditions that everyone is asking themselves. All this, however, is issues that the Greek society sees and judges. Thank you very much for the time being.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Minister. Mr Kyranakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u183	Thank you very much, Madam President. We welcome the amendment that the Minister has just brought. I think it is an issue that Greek society has been discussing for a long time and the hypocrisy shown by previous government MPs and government ministers SYRIZA against the issue, hiding behind supposedly rights of those who carried molotovs on marches and then playing it unscrupulous, must finally end. We are consistently coming because it is important in the policy to be consistent and to remember what this group promised in the run-up to the elections and now comes to implement them. We are not discussing a juncture here, and we are not having a debate that has arisen from events today. We are coming to implement a commitment that we have received from the Greek people. To tighten the sentences brought by the Ministry of Justice are the result of our election commitments and it is the result of a dialogue with honesty that we have had with Greek society and we are now coming to do it. So, then, this change that the Minister brings us joyously and I think we should finally see people carrying molotovs on the roads and being ready to launch them against the children of the Greek police, who are there and serve their duty and serve the national court, have the corresponding consequences which will also be reflected in the handling of Greek justice. We must stop seeing people released without any result at all and without any consequence for their actions. At some point, Minister, we should also see the question of the Greek police officers who are called upon to testify as witnesses and in worse cases, in cases where they are of a terrorist character and targeted at the audiences, targeted at the courts and threatened with their lives, threatened by their family because they go and testify with their name, so that all of this hampers true justice. We must protect them, Minister, because they are not there for the police to testify as private persons. It is there because they are doing their job and the purpose of the Greek Police, when acting in this way, is to protect the social system, to protect all of us who we see ordinary citizens wonder why these actions, whether they relate to molotovs or to more serious cases of crime and terrorist energy, often do not end up in the administration of justice, as the Criminal Code describes it. So I call on you, Minister, to look again at this issue. I heard Mr Heta's position this morning on life. It is an issue that we have discussed many times in this Chamber. I agree that when we say life, we must mean life and I know that in the Western world and especially in European reality, which the Deputy Minister, Mr Kotsiras, knows very well, the word 'equal' in all fair systems is not accompanied by what society means 'life imprisonment'. However, let us take a step in alignment with Greek society and if the maximum penalty for some crimes is twenty-five years, as is now provided for in the new Criminal Code, let us be described as a twenty-five year old and discuss in this Parliament what crimes they are, which must actually bring about life in prison. We could see the example of the United States of America, where cumulatively when a crime is repeated by the same person or by the same organization, by the same form, is a greater penalty.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u184	That's what's going on here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u185	In some cases, my colleague. So when we see groups such as the 'Rubic' taking advantage of that point of the law, they move right to the line to avoid heavier penalties, that is an empty one that we need to see, because society can no longer tolerate the same-known - strangers moving with legal advice to avoid the consequences of the law. So these are issues which we need to see again, but the bill as a whole is in a very positive direction. They disprove the objections of SYRIZA's colleagues to increase crime. The official details of the ELP, Mr. Comrade, are disgusting to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u186	You ask society.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u187	You know, Mr Colleague, here we are Parliament. We're not a remote window. We need to talk with evidence. So, in the official information published by the Greek Police - and if you doubt it, tell us - crime in relation to the governance of SYRIZA has been reduced. Yes, there are some crimes that have gained great social interest, have affected and shocked public opinion. I accept it, we all accept it, and that is why the government shows reflexively, and it comes in a strict manner, the penalties which you have reduced, causing the common sense and now instead of voting in favour, you are again voting against. It is another thing to react socially and institutionally by showing the necessary empathy, to show reflexes to things that are actually happening in society, but it is another thing to say that there is a situation for which the official figures are disgusting to you. These, I think, are the basics that we need to see in the debate we are going to have on the Criminal Code from now on. It's a debate that doesn't end with this bill. It is a debate which will constantly be renewed on the basis of social reality and this government must always show that it understands what is happening in society and that we are fully in line with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece Mr Giokas, and immediately after the speech Mr Kalamatianos will be given by SYRIZA. Here you go, Mr. Gioka.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Madam President. At a time when there is a daily record of incidents due to pandemic and, in particular, because of the policy that leaves the people unprotected against pandemic, at a time when hospitals are sealed, sealed off people outside the ICU, at a time when the health system has been reintroduced, with patient screening and with the necessary medical operations, surgery, treatment for other diseases, the Government is trying to hide its criminal responsibilities behind the convenient anti-vaccinants' opponent, the irresponsibility that exists, which is maintained and strengthened by the government itself, when today - with eight thousand cases daily and with the tendency to go far higher - there is still no scientifically documented vaccination campaign, with preventive control and medical surveillance of vaccinated people, when they are merged into schools, instead of thinning in order to protect children, and with a tendency to go far higher than those parents, where there are no scientifically documented vaccination campaigns and where there are many people have been subjected against them as an individual health status when they have been subjected. What's the result? On the one hand, you leave the people unprotected and on the other, cultivate distrust against vaccination in a world that could even be persuaded, cultivate the climate of division to hide and keep your own responsibilities unpredictable, for the rates of vaccination and for the lack of protection measures and for the collapse of the public health system. You do one more thing. Take advantage of the irrationality and the issue of false news about vaccination, which is, of course, exist, but, as I have said before, it strengthens and maintains it, and your own policy makes use of all of these provisions to establish tyres, reactive and dangerous provisions, such as Article 191 of the Criminal Code, which starts with health and reaches the economy, defence, foreign policy and punishes acts that could potentially shake confidence or cause fear in a number of people and so on. An unacceptable provision, Minister, is a provision that strengthens authoritarianism, which opens the way for the criminalisation of all different voices, for censorship and for maladministration in the press and the media. And since there has been an entire debate and controversy on what this provision actually contains, and if this reference to false news has to do with whether or not any facts have happened, or whether it is about rating crises that may be, I would like to say: First of all, the limits between events and rating crises are completely indiscriminate and, in any case, it is up to the prosecutors and judicial authorities to decide whether something is false news about an event or whether it is an evaluation crisis. But I accept what Mr Karagunis said or what the Minister said we are talking about false news about some facts. Let me give you this example, Minister. We're talking about Article 191. The government a long time ago signed two agreements, one deal with France and one agreement with the United States of America. What was the title of these agreements? What was the title? Defensive agreements. Fact? Fact. We, then, that our criticism is that these agreements are not defensive, but are aggressive agreements, that is what they are? Is it an evaluation crisis or is it false news of an event? Because we say that these are not defensive agreements, they are aggressive agreements involving our country in aggressive wars and turning Greece into a hostage of interventions at the expense of other peoples. Let's go down. If we accept this, that the government confirms that we are talking about events, we are not talking about judgments, please tell me now: Tell me now that the complaint made by unions, mass bodies, health workers, political parties, is now being made in hospitals because of the state of the public health system, which is officially denied by the government, what is that? Is it not a fact that under certain conditions it could be considered false news and persecuted? Of course he can. The complaint that is being made today that because of the fact that the public health system has become a system of disease and there are not a number of necessary treatments, surgery, etc., which is also disguised, what is that? Is it a fact or is it an evaluation crisis? So don't evade. Wherever you get the provision of Article 191, whether we are talking about facts or assessment crises, the different opinion may well be that criticism can be prosecuted under the conditions laid down by the law. It is therefore an unacceptable provision that turns and can be used to the detriment of freedom of opinion and of the press and impose censorship. It is what he told you, not the JRC, the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, that you are trying to impose the official state truth. The excuse you have put forward that this provision existed before - it says - from the revision of the SYRIZA, it does not say anything to us. It doesn't acquit the arrangement. It is a problematic provision, much more, Minister, which does not come back in the way and in the form that existed before the SYRIZA review, which has existed for years. It comes in a much wider form and introduces something else. It introduces objective criminal liability. Because it will not only be the responsible person of a false news - false for you - it will also be the publisher or the owner of an instrument, who will also take the steps to avoid any news or publications that may be exposed to them and criminally. It is an objective criminal responsibility for those who know about it. Where else did you apply the objective responsibility? You applied it - not you, the government, the Ministry of Civil Protection - to the law on meetings. There was no criminal responsibility, it was an objective civil responsibility, Mr Karaguni, you will remember. What did he say? He said that if some damage is done during a public meeting, it is responsible for the organization of the meeting, and even the burden of proving that it is not an elephant. Objective criminal liability here, objective civil liability there. A regime for the generalisation of abstract risk crimes, which should be the exception, slowly, this is not a very special exception, but a rule. As many as they don't gather, Minister, from these provisions? And there is a lot to be gathered, because obviously your aim is to strengthen the legislative arsenal against all those who are fighting, claiming, questioning this policy, and this legislative arsenal may well be exploited in the future, much more if the working people's movement strengthens, if it puts its seal on developments if it disputes this policy and this unfair system as a whole. You are also coming with a last-minute amendment - it has been tabled and it makes sense for Mr Kyrianakis - to take a step further. Change of Article 272 of the Criminal Code. Because you are talking to both the committee and plenary about good legislation, consultation, the groups and the committees that you have put together to bring good articles, etc., that is why it has not come to the committee to have a debate and is now coming with a last-minute amendment? Take note of what the 272 of the Criminal Code says: "Whoever manufactures, procures or owns explosives - and adds - and arson matter". The alcohol I may have in my bag, why do I want to be protected from the coronary is arson matter? It's arson matter. Is the lighter an arson material? It's arson matter. So if I have arson materials and go to a public meeting, why did you change that, because until now this article has said 'if I have been carrying explosives and disturbing a common peace', and you are doing so 'inventive materials' and 'participation in a public meeting' - ten years later. Ten years. We need to know what we're going to carry with us to the marches so we don't go ten years. So here's what the goal of the bill is. So here's where the provisions are aimed. At the same wavelengths a number of devices are in motion which lead to the defendant's position being charged. Apart from maintaining the institutions brought by the SYRIZA government, penal conciliation, criminal negotiation, criminal order, all those unfaithful who have been unleashed by the United States of America, who are making a prisoner's bargain, the prosecutor sits with the defendant and is haggling and the one who is lost is the weakest ever, negative to the defendant is the change proposed in Article 224 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, since now a witness testifying testifying without the source of her information can be taken into account for the guilt of the defendant. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall also take my dentistry, Madam President. Equally negative is the change in the judicial use of DNA, 201 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, another negative change in this article, where the defendant is deprived of the possibility of nominating a technical consultant in cases of self-defenced crimes, while the process of destroying the genetic material file is unclear. So this is the deepest target of the bill and there is no change or modification of the Penal Code in at least the last few years from all governments that have had some of the elements of the communication - not to strengthen the repressive character of the Criminal Law even by means of extraordinary legislation. And the changes of the New Democracy did this - the example of arson matter today is characteristic - and the changes of SYRIZA did the same. Let me remind you of the specific nature of the mobilisations against auctions for the preparation of Christmas with an amendment. Indeed, because the House had closed down because work was being done, we met in the Senate. You brought it in for Christmas. And that is why all this controversy about light or severe penalties is completely disorientated and falsified, where the New Democracy appears to be a champion of rigour and security, and SYRIZA as a champion of esteem. Finally, because there are other weightings, political, economic, classics, because there are the tragic deadlocks in the criminal system that your own policy bears, even you end up being disparate with what you are supposed to be. It is characteristic that while with the SYRIZA Criminal Code there has been a general reduction in penalties - that is true - the offences that were occasionally excluded from this general penalty reduction and from due diligence have been the offences that in one way or another are related to popular mobilisations. There, not only were the sentences not reduced, but the sentences increased: sixty - eighth service disruption, eighty - three disobedience to disobedience, eighty - nineteen common peace disruption, two hundred - two traffic block, three hundred - thirty - four domestic peace disruption and so on. That's where there wasn't custody? Why was there no leniency to accept the JRC's proposals in order to finally abolish these disgusting terrorists and to introduce serious guarantees in relation to the DNA provisions that you not only retained them, but did you further strengthen them? Why wasn't there custody? On the other hand, the New Democracy, which is in favour of security, is the same thing that for specific offences, such as the ones concerning large-scale banks, it actually established criminal immunity. Isn't there security for the offences of the big bankers? I hear the Members of the New Democracy - some of them are younger and may not remember - one after another talking about the Law of Friday and the decongestion and the generalised terms of redundancies and others and others. Let me remind you that the first one I taught a government about the decongestion of prisons with generalised conditional redundancies was New Democracy in 2009. They started this practice in 2009. Then the PASOK MPs yelled. In fact, some - known and unexplainable - were calling today at SYRIZA. They said the New Democracy is liberating drug dealers. Then came PASOK, continued the same practice. Then SYRIZA came back and so on and he goes on to say. So here is why you are inconsistent even with what you are supposed to be advocating and expressing a whole hypocrisy and why all this confrontation of sentences of light or strict is false. It is hypocritical and disorientative and illegitimate because it simply leaves outside and the social environment that develops the crime and the existence of all the measures necessary to protect the victims and to protect those victims in the event that they do not become victims and the question of the penitentiary procedure and the question of social reintegration. And there is no more typical example in this regard than horrendous murders and violence against women or rape and sexual abuse - particularly - of minors for whom there must of course be strict treatment. But does the question arise: Is that enough? Could, for example, be a more rigorous approach to preventing the crime in the Sweet Waters? And why, at the end of the day, the whole debate is exhausted in the criminal treatment of the perpetrator, namely what should happen after the crime, and we are not talking about what should be done to prevent crime? Why do you not discuss the absence of support structures, hostels, consultancy centres with the necessary staff? Why don't you discuss the creation of a support network that can help a woman get away from a malicious environment, the snipers faced by poor women to the irrevocable conviction, from police indifference to long-term judicial proceedings? Why don't you talk about those economic and social coercion that exposes a woman to diversity of violence and insecurity? You are not talking about why all this is at the forefront of the need to shape those economic and social conditions that these women will allow them to stand on their feet, manipulated economic, social, mental, to be able to fight all forms of violence, to be detached from pathogens and, above all, to fight a society that prevents this possibility. Therefore - and I am ending - any criminal regulation to deal with crime cannot be regarded as abstractly abstract, but it must be seen specifically in relation to the society that is being implemented and in relation to the general policy pursued. All these issues of topicality, not only do they reveal the tragic deadlocks of this rotten system, which, of course, are not treated with moves and changes of impression, but they require more radical overthrows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr. Kalamatiano has the floor from SYRIZA. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Vassiliadis will be given the floor from New Democracy and immediately thereafter the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, Mr. Xanthiopoulos. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u191	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would really like to refer to the grim reality created by incompetence, the government's failure to manage the deadly pandemic and the conditions created by accuracy, which has led to suffocation by households and businesses. However, because I think that this bill we are discussing is very important, I will devote all the time to it. So, with the bill we are discussing today, you are once again bringing anachronistic and backward provisions. You're pushing away even the liberal cloak. The codes are the backbone of the law. They must be legislation that is timeless. They cannot express personal and limited choices, personal and limited views, personal and limited positions. You're constantly referring to SYRIZA's criminal codes. But you do not want to see and recognize that these codes are a product of more than ten years of law-making committees, involving authoritative judges, prosecutors, law professors and lawyers. Don't you understand that with your unjust criticism you're deceiving all of them and sticking them to SYRIZA's sign? Why are you doing this? Don't you understand that you're cheating on legal scientists, lawyers, judges, prosecutors with that thing? Now what are you doing? With the changes that the Criminal Code will bring, it will be more conservative even than the 1950s. That's where you come back to us before 1950. With your signature the Criminal Code will lose the principles of liberal criminal law, which is a guarantee of individual freedoms in a rule of law. With your bill you make the third intervention within almost two and a half years of your administration in the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. You are talking about correcting distortions allegedly arising from the 2019 codes. Why? When did these distortions arise? These penal codes have not yet been implemented, they have not produced scientific dialogue, there has been no substantial evaluation of them. The courts were closed because of the pandemic. Therefore, the new codes were not applied in practice. And what corrections are you talking about? They haven't been tested in practice. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] With the changes to the articles of the Criminal Code you are attempting fragmentary interventions, which break down its cohesion and undermine the rationalisation and modernisation of the system of sanctions brought about by the new Criminal Code. Call on the supposed security of the citizens and legislate horizontally to tighten the penalties and how they are to be created. And the question is: Are you not aware that very strict penalties are imposed on our country? Mr Lappas this morning, our rapporteur, told you that only Albania and Turkey are taking us to enforce life imprisonment. A country of 10 million, such as our country, goes beyond countries such as France and Germany. And the main question is: The rigour of penalties is linked to dealing with crime? Do you have any serious study of this? Apparently not. It is clear, however, that what crime is effectively facing is the emphasis on prevention, emphasis on education and education, the emphasis on addressing the economic, social, psychological causes leading to crime. Particularly important is the emphasis on real and effective penitentiary to prevent offenders from committing crimes and reintegrating them into society. What are you doing? Just the opposite. You are penalising the provisions governing the suspension and the creation of penalties for certain categories of crimes. You are turning into penal institutions, such as the release of funds, in punishment instruments, you are neutralising the special prevention and social reintegration of the condemned. Do you really think that if you fill the prisons - which are already suffocatingly filled - with convicted people, that will be the only way to deal with the crime? Of course, you are very strict in some offences and very diligent and relaxed in others. We have seen this with the infidelity of bankers. That's where you legislated grace. In other offences you're very strict. Reading the bill clearly shows that some of the proposed arrangements serve political and communication purposes. They're inspired by spectacular events of news. But in this way, you regulate the fascist and the provisions lose their timeliness. In addition, the bill shows unjustified distrust to the judges. They pointed it out to the committees themselves. You are excessively restricting their ability to personalise criminal treatment. It's not just me. They said it themselves. This choice, however, has nothing to do with a modern, liberal criminal law. Furthermore, the offence of dispersal of false news is being widened, threatening freedom of expression. With Article 36 of the bill, you replace Article 191 of the Criminal Code and I won't say much. I will only invoke the Scientific Service of the Parliament, which points out that it is a question of considering whether the scope of the ban is in any case the preconditions for this provision to be compatible with the Constitution and European law. What are you doing? It is clear that this provision is incompatible with the freedom of information, public information and the free exercise of criticism. In a modern democracy freedom of speech is guaranteed and constitutionally guaranteed. Its limitation and much more criminalisation is only allowed in exceptional cases and only on very strict conditions. The provision you bring contains ambiguities and poses risks of criminalisation of the critical and opposition speech. Ladies and gentlemen, these new changes in the codes will bring problems and deadlock to both criminal justice and the penitentiary system. With your policy, you move away from the European acquis. You remove the country from the commitments it has resulting from European law and from the judgments of the European Courts. But you won't make it. The Greek people in its majority are democratic. He wants progress and not return to the past. And can I tell you something else? The legal world will stand guardian of the rule of law and will react to these provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr. Kalamatiane. Mr Vassilis Vassilidis has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate in Parliament concerns a fundamental issue for our society, justice and one of the three pillars of the social fabric. We must therefore deal with it with the due respect and seriousness that the process of updating this institution requires. The accelerated Ministry of Justice has effectively illustrated the conclusions of the Preparatory Committee set up in March 2020 to monitor the implementation of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure in the form they acquired in July 2019. The truth is that the codes needed updates, as they had not been revised for decades. However, the way in which these changes were made in June - July 2019 was marked by sloppy and ideology, like almost all the initiatives of the previous SYRIZA government. The results we have seen and seen often in the news, with criminals convicted of serious and violent crimes making use of favorable provisions, being free and reinvigorating. However, they are not the results of the poor legislation of the previous government, the only reason why today's draft law is necessary and useful. Ladies and gentlemen, exogenous factors have triggered an increase in crime and therefore threatens the sense of security for the Greeks by pandemic and the misinformation surrounding it, up to the change in the climate that makes fires a serious threat, but also the strengthening of organised crime, a combination of factors which require the updating of codes. On more than a week's basis, the news is flooded by violent crimes often at the expense of vulnerable groups, such as women and children. Crime is now taking such a form that forces the state to make changes to the justice mechanism. So the necessity and usefulness of the draft law under discussion are, I think, obvious. Let us see briefly a few provisions and how the interventions proposed by the Ministry are expected to affect the administration of justice. The draft law comprises four categories of intervention. Firstly, we have tightened the penalty framework for specific crimes of particular criminal decency, so-called and heinous crimes. For example, for offences such as the one of the last betrayal, the homicide, the fatal robbery, the group rape, the fatal rape or rape against a minor, life sentence is now laid down. In addition, the standard conditions for granting dismissal are limited. The order for the withdrawal of the dismissal shall be stepd up and the dismissal shall be abolished subject to electronic surveillance of the offences referred to above. With one phrase, for bad crimes only life, and when we say life, we only mean life! Secondly, environmental and climate-related crimes, such as arson and forest arson, are transformed from crimes resulting from abstract-risk crimes. We do not need to mourn a large number of people, but it is enough that a single person dies for life imprisonment. In particular, the offence of forest arson is now being standardised as a felony in its basic form and not as a flood since July 2019. Thirdly, the vulnerable and vulnerable groups are protected. There is provision for an own-initiative prosecution of sexual dignity in the workplace, while crimes are being upgraded and penalties for crimes such as incest, trafficking in human beings, group rape and masturbation are being tightened up, particularly at the expense of minors. Fourthly, even greater weight is given to crimes with victims of minors, such as seduction. The limitation is now initiated by the adulthood of the person with an extension of one additional year if the act is a flood or another three years if the act is a felony. So the state gives the necessary time for the victims to find the courage to denounce the offences and to take on justice. Finally, I distinguish the individual provisions on the dispersion of false news, the scourge of our time and the wheelset in the treatment of pandemic and the suspension of penalties for cases where there is an irrevocable sentence. There can be no suspension of a sentence on serial criminals. There is a history that testifies that the execution of new offences is highly probable. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to add that it is fundamental for our civilisation, for our society, even for our culture to be given justice, and it is equally important that this justice is attributed by the independent bodies of the state, namely the courts. An independent, unbundled, fair and proportionate justice mechanism offers the necessary sense of security to enable the society and the economy to function properly. Woe for our country if the feeling is shaken and we experience situations of lawlessness, self-righteousness and violence. That is why, in my opinion, it is important that we leave these fundamental issues out of the sterile political confrontation. I am going to make a lasting effort, in particular by addressing colleagues from the Officerial Representation and urging them not to be taken away from the lack of a strategy of their leadership. So I invite them to support this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr Vassiliou. You're always typical of time, exactly seven minutes. It is called the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Theophilos Xanthiopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u195	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think we should start with some general assumptions in the Chamber, because since 10.00 in the morning when I am always here, I hear parallel monologues who do not contribute anywhere, and they barely obscure the essence of the debate. The legislative initiative now belongs to the Government and we are discussing the amendments to the Criminal Code, and as the Minority rapporteur, Mr Spyridon Lappas, said very well, criminal law is essentially the hand of the state which holds the monopoly of state violence for itself. This is the rule-of-law system by which state power makes people die to obey and be subject to the monopoly of state violence, and so the state can operate and perform the functions that are specific to its nature. So we all realise very well - and the citizens of us who are empirically and those of us who are legal - that with criminal law we must be very, very careful because, precisely, criminal law gives the state the right to intervene decisively in the freedom and the times and life of the citizens. I have to say something for a pluralistic time, let it become the property of majority members. SYRIZA in June 2019 voted for the Criminal Code, because it was precisely because the course of his vote was specified, on the one hand, and on the other hand I would remind you that in that Criminal Code you had left, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, so it is indicative of how close you have been dealing with two and a half years now and it is not negligible that that that Criminal Code voted for Potami. That Criminal Code - we have told all tons - is a conquest of the scientific community. It was the result of a ten-year operation of successive legislative committees and the SYRIZA government had the political responsibility and brought the proposal of the Legislative Committee to the vote as a single legislature. So, when you speak and describe them as "Which codes of SYRIZA", you commit to both rationality and truth. SYRIZA has political responsibility. The penal codes voted on, however, were the codes that emerged from ten years - I repeat - the functioning of committees, which brought together the abstraction, abundance, the best lawmakers in the country at that time, many of whom are fortunately still ministering to legal science and to all of us who have the blessing of being their students or being influenced by them, offer a further communication with the high-level intellectual creations of law. You keep talking about the homicide that should only have life. And you interact with the choice of 299 of the current Criminal Code that it provides for a 15-year sentence. What prevents the judge, when he has an act that is homicide and drags the prison of the isobes, from imposing it under the applicable Code? I remind you of the fact that the son experienced an extremely malicious relationship in the family, in terms of his father to his mother, and after a long time, when this absurd violence was no longer tolerated, he was at some point murdered him. He had no refreshing in the sense of boiling mental momentum, he was probably not recognized as the previous honest life. But the judge would have been able to judge him because of his specificity with a lighter sentence. What are you doing now? By putting in a veiled sentence, only life sentence, you are actually pushing judges to devise lightly to deal effectively with the individuality of the defendant and to serve effectively the sentence applicable to the committed crime that came before them. This is also a disgrace to the functioning of the courts and a natural deterioration of the quality of the judges. We have asked Mr Lappa repeatedly, in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, to present us with the Commission's findings, because the modification of codes without a finding by the Committee on Legal Affairs is a waste of work. Unfortunately, it has not been presented until today. On the contrary, the Minister has brought us the results, the findings of GRECO's research, and he has told us that 'please, Mr Xanthopoulou - because I had recommended the issue - to say what GRECO said about 236 and, therefore, it was wrong for you to turn bribery and so on.' I have two answers: firstly, GRECO is a European agency, but it does not come to the conclusion itself. Asks, investigates and learns. And I ask, ladies of the majority: have you defended this choice of GRECO crime, or have you left the choice of the Criminal Code unarmed so that the service can end up as it was judged?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u196	...(Not heard). But is that a question, Mr. Blondopoulos? To God!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u197	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u198	It wasn't your choice, so good. It was not your choice, and you did not defend it, to know how GRECO ended up in her opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u199	The European Commission's report on the rule of law says it best.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u200	Because we're talking about specific...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u201	Minister, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u202	That's what I'm talking about. If you want to discuss the report by the rule of law, we can discuss it. Also, in her own report on the criminal treatment of the witness who admonishes the illegal acts which have come to his attention, she says: "Such systems - we mean impunity - can be abused in certain circumstances" and asked for attention and follow-up. So what do you come here and do? Instead of setting up a monitoring mechanism and seeing how there will be no abuse of the discharge from punishment, you come and you abolish it and you institutionalise the reduced one, which does not help the citizen's security to denounce why it has to do with greater interests. You must not treat it as a point of order. It is all about the legal order, and we must list the entire arsenal provided by modern legal science so that citizens can complain with the "platforms" of the organized state. It has already been mentioned in a speech by a majority colleague that there is now a reduction in crime and we will see it in the Minutes. And honestly I'm just thinking. If there is a reduction in crime, what is the reason for the stricter penalties? Why this contradiction? I am making this as a comment. And finally, I'm closing with Article 47 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. And honestly, Minister, you're caught with the sprout on your back. 'You guys were arrested stealing opium'. I too must believe everything you say to me in good faith, but you require me to understand from the outset that it has dispersed your attention and became an omission of formality that we will now restore and should not have made that statement. That's more extreme. You're responsible. It's not a convincing explanation. Perhaps you would have second thoughts, which is very positive. I do not want to blame anyone, but it is not a convincing answer. We made a mistake, "yanlış oldu" that our Turkish friends say. I call, Minister, also the comment of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which says about specific articles. Article 30 states: ‘The inability of the court to impose restrictions on a special detention shop for young people is inconsistent with the specificities of the personality of young adults’. Mr. Spyridon Lappas raised it. You take them as if they're graduated. Look at it, deal with it. You're told by the Scientific Service of the House. In Article 36 for dispersal of false news, I've told it in detail in committee. There is now a crime of abstract risks, increasing penalties, extending criminality to the owner of the instrument. It is a fact that will create many distortions in public speech. And it is not an argument, Minister, that it was in the 1950 code. And adultery was a criminal offence. What does that mean? Are you thinking of bringing her back? We're not going backwards. We end up with the existing problems to deal with living reality. Article 96 states that it is right that the offence should be prosecuted on its own rather than on its own initiative. Furthermore, for Article 118, the extension of such rules to all adult victims of crimes against sexual freedom is not justified because there is no general objective failure to appear at the audience in this case. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall end, Mr President, after all, with your tolerance for two minutes. We are experiencing an excellent treaty today in the debate on this bill. We are talking about amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and successive amendments by the Ministry of Justice are coming, which discusses amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Where are the principles of good lawmaking? What's your preparation? How is it possible for you, at the Ministry of Justice, where you are a localist of good lawmaking, behave and legislate like this? We can only say on the stage of the procedure that several of your amendments have a real deal to deal with existing problems, but it is not possible for your Ministry only to have the discussion of the Code of Criminal Procedure and bring amendments to your report. I would like to end at a very important moment, in my view, which should be the case with the coincidence and unanimity and acceptance of all of Parliament's wings. We have tabled an amendment as Members of SYRIZA to introduce into the Greek criminal law of crime with sexual characteristics, especially feminine. It is available to all colleagues. Obviously the explanatory statement, in our view, is fully documented. I just want to say the result. Article 82A: Crime with racist and sex characteristics. If a crime has been committed on a passive basis, the choice of which has been made by reason of race, colour, national or ethnic origin, genetic advances, religion, disability, sexual orientation, identity or gender characteristics, shall be as follows: in the case of a prisonable offence of up to one year, the minimum penalty threshold shall be increased by six months. In other cases of defects, the minimum threshold shall be increased by one year. In the case of a felony, the minimum penalty threshold shall be increased by two years. In the crime of Article 299, in homicide, when it turns against an adult or adult woman, it is a presumptuous case that, because of the sex of the victim, it is a feminine murder. The crisis of the nature of the crime as a gypsy may be based on the fact that, as is apparent from the circumstances prior to or at the time of its execution, the act included physical violence, threat of physical violence, an illegal act that seriously offended the dignity of the suffering or of terror or the follow-up or pursuit or illegal retention in order to eradicate its choices or forcing it to act, omission or tolerance of an act which, according to the perpetrator's perpetrator's perceptions, was due to his or her own, to his or his relatives or to the community as a whole. Finally, the nature of the crime referred to in Article 299 as a feminine offence is explicitly mentioned in the statement of reasons of the decision, even if the perpetrator is punished for the circumstances of the preceding subparagraph, pursuant to another criminal provision. Today that we are all experiencing the results of a patriarchal and sexist role, which goes up to the removal of human life on the sole or exclusive or important criterion of being a woman, I think we should take this step as National Representation and unanimously and unanimously support the legislative initiative of SYRIZA Members to establish the term gynaecology in public speech and a criminal dimension. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u203	Be well! Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u204	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u205	Of course, Minister. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u206	I am not used to doing so because I do not want to interrupt the parliamentary procedure. However, I am truly impressed. Mr Xanthopoulou, you have mentioned an example that Mr Kokkalis mentioned earlier about what is happening in a particular case only with life. And I really do wonder: Legally you, the legal person of Mr. Kokalis, do the refreshings of Article 84 in case 2c do not exactly describe the case to which you refer? Then why do you bring it back? Explain to me! I cannot understand the logic of your argument. When lightning is described so clearly in this particular case, I cannot find the reason why you are coming back on this matter. It is the possibility for the judge to impose a much lower level of penalty by recognizing allegiances. From there and to understand, what's the matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u207	But he doesn't have lighting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u208	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u209	Please! Mr Xanthopoulou as a parliament is addressed to the Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u210	Evidently he perceives all this reality in his own way. I totally understand that. However, I am dealing with all these issues that I see before me with common sense and with a knowledge from a specific, I would say, education that everyone can have in relation to specific issues. If what we read is different from the other, there is obviously a unique reality. For legal science at least I think that reality is very specific. There are no different interpretations. In addition, are you coming back to active bribery and have you asked us to defend this provision? Can you ask this kind of question about a provision which has pan-Europeanly and globally exposed our country and made us typing across Europe? I told you it was the first thing I had to deal with, without knowing exactly what I was facing the first day I was in the ministerial chair. And I didn't do it, if you want, that I had to change a law because it was passed by the previous government. Evidently, there were other articles that did not have any criticism, nor did they pose any problems. But here, this article was generally a huge problem, and I imagine that, in the legal sense too, it would not be possible to question the fact that it had to change. So, you're coming and asking us if we defended this article? I think something is wrong with all of us, that is, we don't understand or we're losing something from reality. I am also presenting the report again - and I would ask you to read it out - for the rule of law of the European Commission which makes a clear reference again. After you are questioning its situation 'GRECO', I imagine that the European Commission and its report on the rule of law cannot challenge it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u211	Not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u212	No one can question her. I give you, and if you want I will also bring you last year's more extensive report, the one that has been in force so far, which has been absolutely positively criticised for the work that has been done in the Ministry of Justice in Greece over the last two years, but nevertheless expresses concern that while we changed the Act on active bribery in November 2019, there are some cases that are subject to the most favourable law. The report is clear and I would ask you to read it very much. I do not want to go back to the same issues. I am trying - and I say this on account of knowledge - to overcome and not to go back to issues which are intense and which may create a confrontation that has been mentioned in the past. But if you want me to do it, I will. And the arguments I have, as well as the specific writings, are too much. I assure you that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u213	Thank you very much, Minister. Sometimes small interventions help. But if we constantly interrupt the speaker, he loses his thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u214	I don't, Mr. President, just...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u215	I know! We won't introduce ourselves now, Mr. Chiara. I know you! Here, Mr. Xanthopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u216	The conclusions of the committees are unfounded. They shall be judged and adopted on the basis of specific parameters. Of course I do not question 'GREECO', as I do not dispute any institutional expression of the European Union. However, I repeat that the findings are the result of specific recruitments and concrete approaches. When I asked whether you defended Article 236, it was obviously a rhetorical question, because you have a starting point. You couldn't defend it. But I said it in the sense that this legislative choice we had made as SYRIZA came the new government with its choice to abolish it and found GRECO as an ally. Finally, the legal provisions, Mr Minister, do not apply to this. Although it is a positive science in structure, what you have submitted does not apply. It has multiple readings, reality. And that's the charm of the law, and that's why we're fighting now and you and I, to say that we have to do this or that we have to do the other thing. Finally, as regards the example you mentioned, I said from the outset that the perpetrator has no relief. I said it all along! So we're going to push the judge because he realizes it's a special case to invent. And that is reducing the solvency of judges and the functioning of justice. So I would say that trusting the judges to choose the penalty imposed is an element of democratic functioning of the civil society between the three powers, legislative, executive and judicial. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u217	Thank you very much. Mrs Stergianis Biziou from New Democracy has the floor now and Mr Hatzigiannakis is prepared. Here you go, Mrs. Bisew, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, crime and punishment, crime and punishment have dealt with legal science, philosophy, social sciences, society in the same century. Crime exists as many as human beings and as criminologists say the history of forensics is the history of humanity. Regardless of the time, regardless of the behaviours that each time determines as a crime, the only thing is that the protagonists in the criminal system, the protagonists of criminal justice, are, on the one hand, criminals and on the other, the victims. The leading concepts of criminal law are crime and punishment. The purpose of the sentence had concerned legal science and all human sciences since the first time that man and the societies have captured the concept of an institutionalised system of justice. What is the purpose of the sentence? Those who passed through the law amphitheaters have learned that the sentence is aimed at general and specific crime prevention, that the sentence aims at restoring social peace, disapproval of the perpetrator, preventing him and society from committing new crimes. The Criminal Code is a piece of legislation that must have consistency and stability. It would be a good job if the conditions were not to require changes and amendments to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. But is crime a stable treaty itself? No, it's not. Crime is changing. It's not a stable form. Behaviours that once defined as criminals at other times are today degraded, while new forms of crime are born. Nowadays, as citizens, and as a jurisprudence system, we face forms of crime that we never even imagined a few years ago. Electronic crime, cybercrime, for example, was once just a science fiction. Unfortunately, crime is now more organised, more complex, more violent. The whole of Greece was shocked by a brutal sadistic crime, the case of Ioanna Paliospyros, the case of Vitrioli and all of Greece deplored when it found that the context of the threatened sentence for serious physical damage did not exceed 10 years. With the imported provisions not only increases the context of the penalty, but - which is equally, if not more important, than the level of the penalty - serious physical damage becomes a crime of result rather than intentional. Those who are legal are aware of the importance of discrimination. One can no longer claim that he did not know or predict the outcome of his actions and, by that, enjoy favorable treatment, while his victim is sentenced to lifelong pain and suffering. I say this because there was criticism that we are legislating under emotional burdens and under pressure from public opinion. Although the Minister has already answered this at committee meetings, I would like to remind you of his words: 'Behind every provision in this bill, there is scientific documentation and a two-year scientific work'. I would even add that it is an honor and is a perfect place for our resignation when our laws coincide with the "l want" of society and the public about the right feeling. The summer that passed us experienced the catastrophic mania of many and unprecedented in the course of fires. Only thanks to the early intervention of the state services did we not mourn victims. Arson is a crime of particular decency, awkward, inhuman and dangerous. Treating him as a flood is at least disrespectful to the memory of the dead. Arson threatens lives, threatens the economy, destroys our natural wealth, threatens our future. It is a challenge to claim that one should be treated as a flood. With our own regulations forest arson is standardized as a felony and a crime resulting from a crime of abstract risk. In other words, there is no need for the act to be punished, but the risk is sufficient. A very critical and sensitive chapter affecting today's legislation is what refers to crimes against minors. Protection of minority is a constitutional obligation of the state of particularly serious importance. The consequences of crime on a child are deep and incalculable. They are emotional, they are biological, spiritual, mental and they have an impact on the whole of his personality. I firmly believe that the interventions of the bill on crimes against minors are subject to deep empathy and understanding of the needs of the minor victim, reflect the principles and values of Greek society and are fully in line with the European conventions governing the protection and evaluation of minors. Very importantly, the time has changed for the start of vigilance against the sexual freedom of minors and the way in which criminal prosecution is exercised, age limits are remodeled, penalties and conditions for dismissal are tightened up on condition that those offences are condemned. There's a felony of incest and child robbery. We have been strongly criticised for having to legislate under emotional burdens. As a woman MP, as a woman citizen of this country I am very proud that my resignation does not face the crime of rape with the temptation the legislator faced with it in June 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, crime is a matter of constant, sustainable and changing nature. Certainly a civilised society and a modern criminal system do not want the punishment of crime to lead to the perpetrator's physical or moral extermination. But the view of this punishment cannot and must not lead us to impunity. When criminal control fails, when a sense of injustice is created in the victim, the feeling that justice has not been given is a danger of self-righteousness, there is a risk that citizens will bypass the path of legality and take the law in their hands. The Greek has learned to respect and trust justice. We will regain this confidence of the citizen in our criminal justice. The Penal Code must be characterised by stability. But he can't be static and folded. We cannot for the sake of stability ignore any changes that are taking place around us. We must observe and study changes in society, in crime, in dealing with it, always giving the first word to science. But when you legislate on the basis of man, the principles of proportionality, respect and legitimacy, it's hard to make a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mrs Biziu, and respect for the time. Mr Miltiadis Hatzigiannakis has the floor from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u220	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Minister, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, today to tell the truth as a member of the National Representation I do not feel very well. I don't feel very pleasant. And as the time of the process passes, I feel even worse to tell the truth. All the lessons learned at the university in law school or in the course of the fighting law in the criminal courts, all the battles we have given, I believe that they are being irreparablely put. The legal part I think has analysed it very well - and I should like to congratulate him on all his analysis and legal and policy - Spyros Lappas, our rapporteur. It has also put all the basis on which criminal law and the liberal visa which it adopts almost all of the European states. Unfortunately, for at least two and a half years, we've been here. Unfortunately, it seems that the logic you had up to the vote of the previous Criminal Code, a logic, unfortunately, completely but totally populist, has brought you to a point where you can bring today's amendment, the counter-reformation of the Criminal Code. It's about counter-reforming. And let's leave what Spyros Lappas, Hatzyannakis, what SYRIZA says, what Mer25 says, what opposition says. I don't think I'm fanatical. I like to hear the views of all sides and process them if possible. In all the procedures that we had in the criminal law - because I was one of the lucky ones that started it too early, from my student years and in good offices and in good affairs, and I think it was one of the very big supplies I have taken in my life mainly in my professional life - we were fighting them with colleagues either to convince courts or to convince jury, so that we could transfer exactly the logic of a modern rule of law and explain - that is the role of the lawyer - how it should be applied, how modern teachings of our teachers should be applied on a case-by-case basis. Obviously, either as opponents or as fellow Members, they were all political shades. Not all of them were left-wing, not all right-wing, but we had common places, common teachings, and we were trying to fight for the same things. Unfortunately, this is lost today. I am listening to all the positions of colleagues in the New Democracy, and I cannot believe that these are criminal lawyers. That's what makes me sad. Minister, you made a mistake, you didn't do it on purpose. The Theophilus Xanthopoulou answered, of course,. In legal science, precisely because it is the creation of human minds, people and factors per case, per period, so political context, obviously there is a different reading. There is no objective truth, especially in criminal justice. Obviously, there is no objective truth. If you read even approved lecturers, if you read what Mylonopoulos writes specifically or what Manoledakis writes you will find that they may have quite different views, and that is the magic of legal science. And it's good to disagree on some things. But here we are not talking about disagreement, here we are talking about regression. You are trying to mock your audience, at which you have invested in election campaigns, to do what you have said, a balance between European legal culture and the common sense of law. But that's not our role here. What we are voting on today is Criminal Codes and Codes of Criminal Procedure. We must be very careful. It is not our role to satisfy this, when we vote Criminal Codes, the public about the right feeling. I'm afraid so. I'm telling you, under the responsibility of a legal person who speaks from the Step and has been elected by the world. It is also a pedagogical and it must be a pedagogical role for Parliament. And that is why, above all, the Criminal Codes must be the result of the legislative committees which come to a conclusion - and we would like you to bring us the conclusion of your own amendment, it is not insignificant - and it must obviously be part of these conclusions the brightest minds we have in our country. Neither I can have my experience nor the three hundred in here to take that responsibility. We will obviously have political responsibility, we will vote for it, but precisely because they are so important for the whole operation of our civilisation, the Criminal Codes, our Criminal Law, which is mainly expressed through the provisions of the Criminal Code, must involve these minds. And that was part of the previous law. It's no accident he hadn't changed since the '50s. It only had point-by-point changes to the developments that existed or to the abolition of other provisions, which were obviously anachronistic. It's no accident to make the heart so light and not bring us a finding. I'm closing up with this. Strictness in no world's law - if you have it, bring us what - they have not brought down crime. And I'm telling you this. For two and a half years now, because you have invested populistly in the doctrine of 'law and order', without doing so, because we have not had a reduction in crime - unfortunately too many provisions which are to the benefit of the citizens either you have abolished or made them inactive. I am speaking in particular of the creation of penalties through socially beneficial labour, an institution - and I am closing down with that, Mr President - which, in almost all the legal systems of the civilized world, is the case in the Western world. And in Greece, especially in Greece, the years of the memorials - I tell you because I have dealt with it too many times - it was a disguise of people who were destroyed. Because of the memorialities, because of the crisis, half of Greece was destroyed, shut down businesses, and apparently people owed them. Those people had to go to jail? Unfortunately, many people or householders, who were destroyed in the crisis, have unfortunately gone to some place. And since 1991 the law began - and was applied much more naturally after the memorials - it enabled them to carry out their sentence for the benefit of society, with a public job. And you have made it inactive, as if the serious criminal were going to make it social. See what European states do. And they have neither left-wing nor central-wing governments. The Criminal Code and our criminal justice system are a matter of culture. You've seen it very roughly, and I'm very sorry about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr. Hatzyannakis. Mr.Ioannis Melas from New Democracy has the floor and Mr. Angelos Tolkas is being prepared by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on changes in criminal law is always an interesting process. It is interesting why the changes made result from the needs created in civil society. In the two years of governance of the New Democracy, today's amendment to the Criminal Code is the third and this proves two things: firstly, that we understand the needs of society and harmonise our legal arsenal with them. Secondly, that we have quick reflexes to identify the needs that arise and make the necessary changes. A few days before the 2019 elections the then government of SYRIZA changed just before leaving power, at the very last moment, as it could have anticipated, the Criminal Code. The result of this hasty intervention was the creation of failures and many problems in the administration of justice. Indeed, in this act the hardest opposition was not exercised by the New Democracy, but who? The former Minister of Justice of the government of Alexis Tsipras, Mr. Kontonis, who described it as a stigma and a reproach for the conversion of corruption by a felony into a flood and, in general, described the legalisation of the Criminal Codes by the government of SYRIZA. In contrast to the paradoxical way in which SYRIZA is legislated, we choose the Orthodox way of legislating. In March 2020, therefore, by decision of the Minister of Justice, a legislative committee is set up to monitor the implementation of the new codes. So the changes that we come today to discuss are based on the conclusion of this committee. They are also based on the new forms of crimes that occur in our society. Crimes of our times such as homicides, felonies, rapes, minor rapes, fatal robberies are an unpleasant reality we must face. For such crimes as the ones that concern topicality and shocking public opinion, they will be punished with the punishment of the isobes. At the same time, the perpetrator’s stay in prison is increasing for a longer period of such heinous crimes. Honestly, I really cannot believe that there are Members in this House in particular from opposition who disagree with the stricter application of these penalties. Ladies and gentlemen, you will also allow me to stand in the article on the dispersion of false news, an article which has gathered many reactions. Opposition accuses us of trying to control the briefing. That's what they say. That's a lie. We do not want and seek to restrict freedom of expression. What do we actually pursue? To protect society and every citizen separately from the chaos of the Internet. The dispersion of false news was and continues to be a frequent phenomenon on the Internet, but the appearance and high popularity of social media turned this dispersion into a true "pandemic" and unfortunately "embol" for the "pandemic" of "fake news" has not yet been found. According to research, six out of ten netizens re-publish a story, reading only the title and not its content. Two are the main reasons for false news. One is a commercial reason to promote products or to increase website visibility. The other reason that concerns us and all of us in this Chamber is political is that it is about disinformation and the formation of the opinion of the public. So what do we have to do as a state in order to protect our society from the make news of the Internet? Strengthen our legal arsenal to prevent aspiring false news traffickers from such actions. And, Ministers, in addition to the very correct provision of the draft law on penalties for dispersal of false news, I would also like to present a proposal for the future. The Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the Ministry of Digital Policy, take an initiative on the certification of real users of social media. Every news, every post reproduced in the social media world must have a name and not hide the real user behind a troll account, to know who wrote it, when he wrote it, why he wrote it and how his play was done online. It must be realised that such intimidation is a criminal offence, so it should be a criminal offence and misinformation. I also present you with an information brochure from the Hellenic Centre for Internet Security, which has resources that you can study. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Melas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And one more thing that is linked to it, but it is also linked to the time in which we live, the pandemic. In a recent survey of the NEO, in the question “Who has instructed you or advised you not to be vaccinated?”, nearly 30% replied that it was influenced by Internet posts or by something he heard and read. So we realise how necessary it is to deal with misinformation at birth, especially when it comes to public health. Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition to strict penalties does not give us any impression. To avoid forgetting ourselves, you have turned the possession and use of molotovs into a flood. We returned it in November 2019 to a felony. You have turned the bribery of civil servants into a flood. We brought her back into a felony. In recent years - and I am closing with this - crimes such as this in Sweet Waters, the vitriol attack and complaints about the Greek Me Too, the increase in sexual crime, the incidents of domestic violence, the feminine murders have shocked us all. These worrying social phenomena cannot be left unrealistic, ladies and gentlemen. We must legislate, following the demands of society. In the rule of SYRIZA we may have had a kind of tolerance to violations, such as the use of molotovs or the action at the offices of Ruvikon, a constant effort to intervene in the control of justice or a favourable treatment to the killer Dimitris Koufantina, but we have decided to respect the lawfulness and legality are neither vague nor can it be adapted according to who rules, is a key pillar of the organisation and functioning of a modern rule of law. And not to forget - and this is the most important one - that guardians of the law and of the security of citizens are the men and women of the Greek Police who are in the front line. Our aim, therefore, was and remains for the citizens to be and feel safe. That is why we are bringing these changes, so I invite you to vote on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. Mela. Mr Angelos Tolkas is called to Stepma by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and then the Deputy Minister will take the floor. Mr. Tolka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u224	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot start by making the reference to what the previous speaker has just closed, on the allegedly loose relationship between the previous government and the criminal trial, criminal law and about the way it has been described, when the murders of people in the centre of Athens at the same time have been tens of dozens of times, the increase in crime and micro-crime, the continuing exchanges of fire between gangs, and all that we have been living in the last few years, even since the Colonialism, on how the crime that is supposedly coming to tighten up the data. The bill under discussion is based on the Legislative Committee under our worthy Professor Margaritis of the School of Law of Thessaloniki, the School of Liberal Criminal Law, which we do not see here today with the bill you bring. The conclusion of any piece of legislation, however, has never been seen and we ask you, Minister, to put it before the end of the debate. That is why we have basic reasons to believe and we tell you that you have politicised this bill for the purpose of managing society's publicity and cultivating conservative instincts, while saying that this creates a security climate and that all crimes are allegedly punished even more severely. But here too, you choose other crimes to punish more severely and others to effectively relieve the perpetrator. You are critical of the current Criminal Codes, that they serve criminals and are multiple temperate, when the new criminal texts have not been effectively tested from 2019 until today, due to the suspension of the functioning of the courts, as we have experienced it all this time in the coronary period and as well as a very short time that does not allow for a calm and mature evaluation of their implementation, while the case-law, criminal judges have been properly adapted and adequately addressed any potential issues that have arisen in a successful manner. We've all seen that. We've all been doing criminal law. With your bill you return to the permanent conflict between liberal criminal law and conservative and horrific penitentiary policy, and of course choose the latter, through dogmatic interventions, unhappily with their regressive goal, backward interventions of previous decades and even such that they do not treat the Criminal Code as a single text, a single and consistent legal concept and rules. You're saying you're stricting your sentences. I mentioned earlier that you are choosing what is stricter. For example, you are weakening the penalty payment and subjecting it to a simple public debt if the sentenced person refuses to submit to its execution. Therefore, the one who has to pay, the one who is a powerful economic person, in fact, is not threatened criminally, is not pushed criminally as it has been done up to now. So here your choices are classic, with pure preference and support to your politicians essentially and you describe, you paint this within the Criminal Codes. Many of the New Democracy colleagues have referred to well-known and famous events, or even to recent natural disasters that we have, unfortunately, experienced this summer. Even here in the bill, however, there is a lack of coolness, scientific science, the coherence that the legislator of Criminal Law has to show. Here too, the critical is not the vigilance of the public system simply by tightening up the sentence of the sentenced person. The crucial thing is to take responsibility and plan actions to prevent, in the case of infrastructure, public investment, which you do not do and have not discussed until now. You remove, Minister, the institutional and operational capabilities of the judges, because you choose to excessively limit the possibility of judges to individualise criminal treatment. Because you do not trust the judges themselves with the provision of lifelong and temporary imprisonment or imprisonment and financial penalty for the home-made creation of the rest of the sentence for certain categories of crimes. Will the legislative authority take over and anticipate all these powers? What for? Why are you afraid the judges aren't strict enough? The judges, Mr Minister, today find the self-evident personalisation of sentences, taking into account all the circumstances and circumstances of every crime. And there are many cases where, if there was no judge's judgment, we would lose the purpose of the law and the objectives of the penitentiary policy. And it seems here that you too have come to the argument of lenient treatment by the courts and thus underestimate the entire legal world. You are also turning from beneficial institutions into punishing interventions by a number of institutions for certain categories of crimes, such as dismissal on the ground. And while its aim is to reinstate the convicted, again after a judicial crisis, you are turning it into a new kind of punishment. Mr Minister, we are experiencing a series of economic and social developments and we are seeing traders, retailers, people's sellers - I am referring also to the parliamentary topicality - all small and medium-sized citizens, who are the great majority of the country, threatened by the new economic crisis that your government is shaking. With your perception and your misgivings, the criminal courts will treat all of this world as potential criminals and, indeed, will be threatened with the strictest sentences you are presenting today, with the failure to implement any penal measure that would bring them back to social reality. Don't you see, gentlemen of the New Democracy, just the news of the media. Think of the future of the country, a society that lives insecurity, sees the accuracy, feels the dishonesty, fears that the great part of it is being sidelined for economic, social and today's justice. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr. Tolka. The Deputy Minister of Justice, George Kotsira, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u226	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been following an interesting debate all these days, from the committees and also in plenary today, on the changes - amendments to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure - which, in fact, concerns a key piece of legislation, an axis, a backbone for criminal science. And it is obvious that changes in such legislation bring about debate, scientific dialogue, political dialogue, social dialogue. But I will say it again, as I have said to the committee, and because I see that again, like Mr Hatzigiannakis, colleagues, I see you as self-determination representatives of legal science. It is fairer to say, as we all say, that such a serious issue has many dimensions, criminal, scientific and dogmatic, rather than constantly presenting yourself as self-determination representatives of the legal area, of the legal world, of science, as well as of the legal committee which has worked out this framework, as if the Association of Prosecutors of Greece, expressed positively for the bill in the committees, does not consist of legal representatives of the law, as if the plenary of the legal associations, which, in its critical attitude on some points, said that it is the draft law, it is not legal, and everyone else, and Mr. Myloopoulos, who came to committee and many other scientists. Obviously there are different opinions. Nobody wants to monopolize this part. Indeed, I see that there is a debate and you are constantly talking about the question of the stricter penalties, but do not dare to mention what specific provisions this stricterization relates to. And you do this because you are ostriching and you do not want to mention to the Greek people what specific provisions you have to make. I will tell you again, as I have said in committee, what the main provisions you refer to in the words stricter penalties and framework. The arson forests were specifically mentioned, which became its basic form of felony. It had been a flood previously in its basic form and is now becoming a felony. The murder, rape of a minor, rape of a group, fatal rape, fatal robbery, the sexual act of a minor if death occurs, the proliferation of minors returning to the criminal system, and not in the previous code. That is why, Mr Lappa, the frameworks must be re-evaluated, regardless of how many years they have been implemented, because they are found and we can find loopholes in law at all times. Human trafficking is also mentioned. The two specific, masturbation and marketing are key parts of organised crime, which you know very well how many legal misconducts it may have. We are dealing with them in the context that the criminal legislator can deal with them, by being rigorous and being integrated into the criminal context. The seduction of minors in the 15- to 15-year-old context of age was a misdemeanor, became a felony and the abuse of minors by persons who have trusted them. Incest regains felony. The pornography of minors, the insulting of sexual dignity, which, on its own, will be persecuted, the serious physical damage, the dangerous physical damage, the physical harm to an employee gains a prestigious situation. Hazardous driving is also mentioned. At the same time, the possibility, as I said before, of prosecuting the self-prosecuting of minors, of changing the limitation periods for minors to start from the nineteen and twenty respectively for delinquents and felony. The possibility for the Ice Bay Attorney to be given priority, to introduce such offences to be interrogated and to be discussed as a matter of priority. And here I come and ask you which one of these specific things, which is the torso of the changes of strictness, are you differentiated? Why am I saying it? Because in these specific offences I have not heard any SYRIZA MP here today, but you are referring in general to a tightening up, presenting the initiative of the Ministry of Justice indefinitely as something strict, conservative, backward, and all this concerns victims and the protection of victims of criminal offences that are very increased criminal offences. I didn't want to be blind. I told the committees too. No one believes that only the tightening up of the penalty framework or of the more general criminal context can in itself deal with crime and crime. Yes, it is a link in a large chain of interventions and the state must do it either in public administration, in police, in structures, in education or in penitentiary, but it is a key tool, an important instrument for criminal law and for dealing with crime. I did not expect you, who often refer to the rights and the protection of the weak, to have such an offence or not to mention them or to hide them from the public debate. Because in the case of the protection of minors, where you mentioned earlier, for example, in addition to the stricter treatment that has been chosen in the criminal context by means of the offences I mentioned - which, in fact, tightens the penalty framework not only for the rape of a minor, which is only life sentence, but also for the rest that I mentioned, such as the insulting of sexual dignity, domestic incest, the abuse of minors, which are basic offences - you had with the 2019 Criminal Code, brought about a change in the issue of the limitation of the offences and we changed it and started a limitation from 2019, and in conjunction with the self-professional persecution that the public authorities have now been able to do. Because you understand - and those of us who are legal - that it is impossible many times within three months to appeal to the public prosecutor and to denounce a crime, unless the prosecutor is able after three months and within the framework of the limitation, to intervene or to be able to bring the child to justice after his adulthood. This was the treatment reserved by the 2019 Criminal Code and we are changing that. I do not want to monopolize my sensitivity to such crucial issues, but it does not stop these legislative gaps being essential, which should not be, Mr Lappa, and my dear and dear colleagues in the SYRIZA, to wait for the Criminal Code to be applied for a decade, to have intervened in the meantime to say that there has been a mistake and now that it has been implemented ten years. We see the problem, as many others do, and we change it, with respect for science and the dogmatic view of law, with respect for the rights of the defendant, who are sacred, the crown of legal science and, indeed, criminal law must be in a very high position, but we incorporate it into the broader dialogue set up under this law and the rights of the victims, and indeed, the victims of vulnerable victims, victims of victims who can be exploited by the strengths of each special relationship and for that reason, our position is clear. And because many times it is important when we say something to support it, I still do not intend to monopolize on the issue of minors, but these changes are being made. Mr. Giannoulis was mentioned earlier what SYRIZA had done, who had made a law in 2017, the ministerial decision in 2019, as the Minister said in his position. Do you know what position we had in your day on the basis of the European Union's JUSTICE SCOREBOARD in children's friendly justice? We were last together with Malta, if I am not mistaken - I will submit it in the Minutes - with zero action - nothing, says here, in fact - on this matter. We, therefore, have drawn up a national action plan on the rights of the child, in addition to our intervention in the Criminal Code. The next time the "Home of the Child" of Athens will work, after solving many problems - legal, operational and infrastructure - which had to be resolved for an important institution, indeed, on the issue of child deposit. However, while you referred to the testimony, the sentences for minors you have unfortunately reduced them. And here we have to put this in place. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I'm gonna need some more time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u227	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u228	It is another analogy - which you call for - and another tendency to impunity. Proportionality provides for there to be a means by which you achieve the purpose that is proportionate, indeed appropriate. So, in dealing with such serious crimes as homicide, rape of a minor, rape of a group, seduction, do you think that the principle of proportionality is being implemented by reducing penalties? So, should I tell you something? To abolish and separate the defect and the felony and let the judge choose a sentence from zero to life. Don't make any categorizations. Because you say and repeat that we supposedly have no confidence in the Greek judge on how to assess a case. Excuse me, but this is where a legal choice is made and the Greek state is clear. In these five crimes, yes, the option is that the exclusive sentence for the homicide, the rape of a minor, the group rape, the last treason and the fatal robbery will be life imprisonment. And the example of Mr Xanthopoulou earlier is a classic case of application of Article 84.2. of the lightning directive. You and my colleagues know very well what happens when the lightning is in place and where the penalty goes. So, do not bring examples, like the lucummon dust, for the inappropriate attempt to justify serious legal issues that have multiple readings and do not make it simplistic for people to hear and think of something else and then to refer to a allegedly stricterization, but not to say what we are stricting. Because I'm telling you again, don't make me read them again. I want you to tell the Greek people and the people who are watching us that we, yes, are the changes that are taking place in these offences we consider to be stricter, conservative regression and we are voting against them. You are not generally referring to tightening. That is the provision of the law. Another is the application of the principle of proportionality, and another is the trend towards impunity. I close, so that I do not abuse the time we have available today, considering, as I said at the beginning, that the issues of changing criminal legislation are sensitive and complex. A very important job has been done here with excellence and legal adequacy. We change several articles, there are no partial changes, as you are trying to mention, that there are supposedly five changes and all these are backwards. There is a serious change that is coordinated, respects the criminal service, has specific characteristics of proportionality and completeness. I think you are making a big mistake by not even supporting what I have mentioned. For KINAL, I cannot understand what he has done, because others were saying to the committees, but I heard it today. We'll see how they'll be put tomorrow. On the other hand, it seems that our choice is, in fact, proportionate and applies the principle of proportionality, moderate, with a specific objective and with the protection of victims and society. I shall conclude by mentioning what we have discussed in the committees. We are not doing a theoretical analysis of the law here. We are MPs, we are representatives of the Greek people and the legislator cannot actually close his eyes. It is another thing to legislate on the basis of public opinion, which is obviously not the case and which is why the Minister's language has been hairy to say that the committee has been set up since March 2020 and has seen the framework as a whole, but we cannot function and cut off and shut down in glass. We see what is happening in the world, we hear about society, we see what gaps a criminal context creates in society and science and we adapt. That is why I think it will be important, at least in the basic sense, for us to agree and support this piece of legislation, too. The rest, if necessary, we'll talk about it tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr. Kotsira.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, may I ask the chosen and sympathetic Secretary-General a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u231	If he accepts!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u232	Mr Kotsira, I very much appreciate both your boldness and your consensual style and the quality of your speech. Indeed, I appreciate it positively and congratulate you. I have two questions. A moment ago, Mr. Kyranakis went to Stepma and said he had evidence from the Greek Police showing that there is a significant decrease in crime in Greece after 2017, 2018, 2019. That's the one, if you know that, and second...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u233	But he didn't mention it, he didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u234	For Mr. Theodorikos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u235	I'm saying that's how it's combined with being tightened up. That's the question. That's the one. Secondly, because we are both legal colleagues and are ministering to justice and, indeed, criminal justice, together with everything else, have you read the findings of the three committees that preceded the 1919 resolution of the Codes, the Manolidakis Commission, the Marquis Commission and the Argyropoulos committee? If so, tell me where the 19th Codes differ from those of three projects, which differs from the final draft adopted in June 1919 by the three previous drafts of the committees. If you say at one point it's differentiated, I'll say that they are, in fact, SYRIZA's Codes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u236	Mr. Kotsira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u237	As regards the first point you raised at first, I have not mentioned, but you understand, as I have said, that the choices made in the Criminal Code are a product of months' work, and that is why they are consistent - and that is why - the balance between the rights of defendants and victims and, yes, the criminal treatment of crime is, as I have said, a link in the chain. I said it, Mr. Lappa. It is a serious and essential link, because it is not possible for the legislator to close his eyes when he sees that certain criminal behaviours are disproportionate - since we have also referred to the principle of proportionality - criminal treatment. Obviously, the law has its features. You want the analogy to translate it into a trend of impunity, obedience? As you wish. We don't have that perception. We believe that the law is an essential element in dealing with it. In the second place, the body on which the changes have taken place is the specific legislative framework that exists. Here we have a different view by considering that the provisions of the 2019 Criminal Code, as they ended after the process you mentioned, have gaps, need changes. I mentioned them to you. There is no need for centuries to see that if someone is convicted of group rape, minor rape or homicide he can go out to six years and we don't have to change the term dismissal. I do not think we need, Mr Lappa, a century to understand that. I don't think it takes a century to see that a juvenile in the fourteen who happens to fall victim to mutilation under the 2019 Code and spends the quarter, can never be protected from justice because he can't commit imprisonment, can't intervene on his own initiative, he writes down the offense and the perpetrator and the victim remains unpunished. I'm so sorry. It is a good dogmatic view, and I am a legal person, but it is also judged on the application of a Criminal Code, it does not take centuries to understand its basic mistakes and, along with the basic errors, we change specific issues that protect victims and send the right message to society and to the victims and the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u238	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Charalambos Papademitriou from New Democracy, then Mr. Ypsilantis from New Democracy, then Mr. Boubas from the Greek Solution. Here you go, Mr. Papadimitriou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think most have been said, so I do not have much to add to what I had thought, and that is good because it shows that the debate is rich and with arguments. A small point from a non-legislative point of view: the reason why there is this process of change to the Penal Code, I think, ladies and gentlemen, that it is precisely because it is necessary for the House to express the popular will. The fact that it took a long time and yet you did toward the end of your term of office the elaboration of the Criminal Code - and that is how it must be done, must take time to get this attempt to understand developments - does not change the essence of the matter, which you may not perhaps understand. Perhaps, then, it was not as strong or perhaps - and you must take this seriously - a body of this perception that says that penalties for a series of offences, such as the ones we are discussing now, are not enough to be the new majority. It's nothing different. The difficult thing and what I would like to insist on is that what is needed to ensure that there is a good application of the penalties provided for is that children are raised so that they know that a series of acts of injustice and crime are punished in a particular way that is very heavy. If we go into the process of changing this to the better on the side of the man who has made the wrong and the crime, that is where we are making a serious misconduct with regard to precisely the balance of society. That is why I insist that at this point we should agree in every possible way when the debate is over and that the convictions are right now too heavy, because it is the best way to prevent crime, those crimes. With the completion made by the Ministry, I think it is literally what most of us wanted. I have spent too many years listening to heavy accusations against the political world and against my own work for thirty years, because we are somehow covering serious crime. From there, I think saying it's a penalty that makes things very clear. Our judiciary, our penitentiary system, in general, has ways of seeing the evolution of things, but it is no coincidence that most societies are now heading that way. So it expresses a reality in society, which is the work of the House, namely to give the judiciary autonomy, to give what the people want, and that is the work of this House to do so and to do so in this way, and to be clear how our society works and how we therefore know that we are making a new start. We are putting the very serious crimes in place, which is why it is very useful to distinguish between the press, the reports, the debates, and here it is completely covered by this regulation, because the penalty provided for is very heavy. I should like to say, therefore, more clearly, that no-one ultimately has a different view or perception of what is the right penalty for these crimes - the Secretary-General has just said it - and I think the debate has turned out to be more about whether there should be divorced solutions for the judge, who I think we are not giving him the hands, but we are clearly telling him what the popular demand is, what the popular will and that is the difference, if you want the priority that Parliament has over judicial authority, because, yes, it is three equal powers, but some must be a little more equal and that is this one. That's how things go. That's not just my point of view. You know that better than I do. I come to an observation that I want to make. I spent thirty and a few years with a sword over my head that was if we were to write lies that we would be punished if we lied about being punished. The punishment for proliferation of false news is necessary, although within my own subconsciousness it was linked to the junta, and therefore it was something I didn't like. I have come to a reality, Minister, that this is a demand for society and the majority in the way I have explained before, and I therefore accept it. The differentiation made by a provision of the '50s with what you suggested and passed through '19 did not satisfy the question 'or have it or have it'. If you didn't want it, you'd have taken it off, I imagine, you'd have recommended at least his removal. Perhaps you did well and did not take this off and it is proof of the fact that the tragic pandemic we are facing is that an issue that we did not think about, public health, comes to be added to these great risks to which we must protect ourselves. My point, Minister, is that in terms of wording, that is to say, 'whatever public in any way, etc. False news that is capable of causing concerns or fear to the citizens, we say then "or then "reflect public confidence in the national economy" etc. I would suggest that instead of the second 'or' where it says 'or to shake', we do it 'and to shake', because that is how we define more clearly what concerns we are talking about and what is the result that we do not want to do and in any case we want to punish. This is the first and most important one, which, in my opinion, will improve the wording of the relevant provision and allow it to cope with reality, because ultimately such provisions are treated with the reality of the courts, which will ultimately be called upon to see how all this will be implemented. I'm ending with one wish. When we say internet, we can finally find who's behind the Internet, because the owner of Facebook pages is Zookerberg. We who have a Facebook page are not owners. There will therefore be a great problem for justice to be able to apply the relevant provision. So, with this reservation and this correction proposal, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr. Papadimitriou. Mr. Vassiliou Ypsilantis from the New Democracy is called in Step. Then Mr Boubas will speak, and today we will get to Mrs Mani - Papadimitriou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u241	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the revisions of the codes, and in particular the Criminal Code, must be methodologically subject to the real and mature situations that society needs and require. I think that all these years in the area of Criminal Law, in the offences that society feels we should standardise, the current amendments, which our Parliament is dealing with in this bill, the provisions of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, on the basis of a finding submitted to the Ministry of Justice by the Legislative Committee set up by the Ministry of Justice in March 2020 to monitor the implementation of the Criminal Code, which started to apply on 1 July 2019, when - to remind the House - in a way that was unambiguous, provocative and moving to the limits of democracy, SYRIZA, a few days before his election, imposed the conversion of felonies into crimes and made the conditions for the release of criminals committed crimes. The draft law includes amendments and improvements, streamlined anticipated penalties, reintroduced important provisions which, as I said before, had been abolished or degraded to defects, resulting in lower penalties and a public sense of law. In addition, we are seeking to introduce provisions with a view to addressing those malfunctions that have occurred over the past two years in the application of the new codes and thus restoring legal certainty. I consider it very important from the dogmatic point of view of the Criminal Law to be these comments made on this bill by the criminals' association, which she described by her representative as moving in a proper context, overthrowing the petty and very negative approach to the draft law of counter-population, which ignores once again the real needs of our society. We have the reinstatement of the criminal of the unexpected attempt, not of the over-simplified performance of the term, but of the one recognised internationally and consolidated in our legal culture. A classic example of reference the entry of a gun into a person's house, in order to steal money, threaten the residents and put pressure on them and because they find nothing, they leave. It is the case of the inappropriate attempted robbery, which has obviously taken illegal action. Otherwise, this act would remain unpunished or be punished for something lesser and not for what it is, that is, the unexpected attempt at robbery, as criminal law does internationally. Very characteristic, during the hearing of the bodies, also by the criminals' association, exemplary mention was made of the case of armed forces who entered the Acharnon City Hall who searched for valuable objects and left without being punished for an inappropriate attempt to rob a robbery. The punishment of physical harm, the crime of the result through law, were given examples where, under the existing legislation, someone hits another and the victim down and suffered a brain injury that leaves him paralysed, this act, because the heaviest result is due to the perpetrator's negligence, could not be punished, because under the new code, serious physical damage has only been committed intentionally and not as a result of the crime. Finally, for commonly dangerous crimes, potential risk is well restored. The new provisions will penalise acts that are heavier, because there was the possibility of a human being being being compromised. One of the important, in our view, provisions, especially for islanders, but also for all Greeks, is the criminalisation of fishing without the permission of the competent authority. I would say, Minister, that the word "Greek" should be completed here, within the gynaecological zone and our inland waters, Article 398 of the Criminal Code, with a ship or another means of waterway flying the flag of a third country. Recast and adapt to Article 398 of the Criminal Code of Article 33 of the Fisheries Code. I say this to complete the word "Greek", because the Greek territory is mentioned. So let us also mention the Greek authority, because they may be presented to the Greek courts, for example, and the Turkish fishermen say they have a fishing licence. The legislative gap created by the abolition or degradation of a major criminal offence following the entry into force of the new codes guaranteeing the rule of law and increasing crime also require the continuous review and adaptation of existing provisions in both the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, which complemented legislative omissions or failures that the judicial practice has demonstrated in the light of the defence of the procedural rights of the parties, the speeding up and the qualitative upgrading of the criminal trial. With these thoughts I wish, Mr Secretary, for your systematic, rational and effective intervention in the part of Criminal Law and Criminal Procedure to express my positive vote in this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u242	Thank you very much, Mr Ypsilanti, for keeping time. As always, sir. Mr. Konstantinos Boubas is called in Stepma from the Greek Solution. Then Mr Zebplis will speak and then Mrs Arabadzis will speak. Mr. Booba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u243	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as most of us in the Chamber, like many Members, are of legal science, it is what some people will say that legal science is entering everywhere, but that no one enters it. And the point is that the Greeks have lost confidence in the administration of justice, because there is the time of history that proves this. It is what one will often say that "the sword of justice must not have a case". Greece has been accused by the European institutions of corruption, because today, on a global level, the government is being cut off and it says that we have risen to blame as far as corruption is concerned, but in Elderly it remains in second place after neighbouring Bulgaria. Today you are severed by some penalties, but what we put as a parameter in the Greek Solution is whether these penalties are to be applied. That's the point. That is where people have lost their confidence, that justice is not being applied. And that's what I regret, because the Minister knows, when in the timely question you admitted it then. When in the schools of judges a training document is given to the new judges "go to the subject and support the banks", I am glad you remember it, because you had the courage to admit it at the time, but you said that we cannot intervene in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u244	It's constitutionally regulated.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u245	And there comes the saying of Plato "the righteous no more what or the Cretan interest." I'll see you around. ‘Law is nothing but the interest of the mighty’. I say this because no party has taken a stand on this against an injustice against the citizens. Minister, you cannot intervene, but it had to be condemned by this political world. He had to be convicted. That is to say, the homes of the world cannot be commanded and the injustice against the impossible can be done. It's what someone could say - Chamberlain said - that justice is a fair distribution of injustice. That's what he said and, Mr. Papadimitriou, a great journalist, form in this piece. So, when Greece has symptoms of corruption, it has unintentional crimes, where people who have actually removed life in the worst way come out of prison in a short period of time, considering what the penalty is, so not to play with words, because etymology, root, substance, the meaning of life. Now you're gonna tell me, the quintuosity of the Criminal Code that you know what lawyers are? It is Article 7, where every penalty must certainly be imposed by law. If there's no law, there can be no penalty. But I will come back on the etymology of the sentence. What a pain. If the pain does not occur, there is no punishment. But, assuming society is the human body, what is it? It's a warning that something's wrong with society. So, then, we will treat this pain as a warning not to expand, so as to soothe the pain. But if the pain continues, we must go to another medication and be isolated so that society can really be cured. This is the grievance of the world, that it has not been done quickly and that strict penalties are not applied as they should. As far as I am concerned, I would remind you of this mediation where, as a government, Minister, you give the opportunity to one of the two ombudsmen or not to be legal, there - you who are the head of the ministry - did not react to the legal world as it should.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u246	The European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u247	The European Court of Justice may be, but in Spain it is a bit different and they are also a member of the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u248	I do not know what you say about the European Court of Justice, but that is where the ball will be lost, especially in matters of specialty, which must be in this negotiation. He can't be with the other sciences. To God, all respecters, but a non-legislative can't negotiate something that has to do with the ordinary citizen. You're putting penalties and I expect to see if it's going to happen, but it can't be life, you're putting sixteen years on, and - I'm going to do fine - plus eighteen VAT. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And I say this because as lawyers you must also serve the science you have studied, the roles of legislation, executive, judiciary, but in fact they are also sharing vessels, no matter how we do it. Let's go to the courts where confidence is lost. Because, badly lies, a justice society if it is unrealistic to the citizen, that is where the sepsis begins, it is mummified and becomes a gangrene. So then we go "head hurts, we cut head". We need to get to this point. Court specialisation. In some countries of Europe it is. Car accidents deadly. If the judge doesn't know anything more, he can't pay off the expected sentences. Then we have to go to another establishment plan on the functioning of the courts. You put in incest. You're putting sexual freedom on. You're putting the trade in human organs. This is what people want to be punished or want to have a fear - on introductory grounds - to say that the sentences are attributed, that they are strict, so as not to repeat unintentional crimes. The crime you're talking about, I've tried for the last few hours as long as I can see it. We've got a bending somewhere, but it's a little stubborn. We have a rise somewhere, because crime is being adjusted according to the manifestations and fluctuations in society. That is, for example, the studies say - you can see them - that crime has dropped somewhere, but, for example, the issue of robbery and theft or electronic fraud has increased. Why has electronic fraud increased? Because he took advantage of the lockdowns during the health crisis. It is this harmonisation and adaptation of fraud and crime in the light of fluctuations and the social crisis that we can have. In all this is the GRECO report that speaks of Greece. If we go to the issue of personal data as far as the Internet is concerned, unfortunately there are no rules and conditions as they should be and at the moment the individual's personality is at stake. I want to get you something. With all these measures on COVID there is an injustice at the moment, and the shopkeepers of certain kinds are resurrected. For example, he tells me storekeeper of electrical items: “I have the same price in the microwave with a large supermarket. In the supermarket, the invasive can enter because they are first - need items. In my shop he cannot enter." So what do we do? We are blocking, as you have done in the past, because it is within the limits of unfair competition that a supermarket in which the invader enters for first-hand items as you have done, but it also takes electrical appliances, so that the dealer of electrical appliances is wrongfully offended. You need to see this because the trade balance will pay for it - I would say just and relished - on the sidewalk. And when the sidewalk pays it, i.e. small businesses, backbone, then things get tighter for the operation of the economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u249	Finish, Mr. Booba.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u250	I will close, Mr President, and I want a minute. In the morning, we tabled a timely Greek solution as regards the state of Skopje for a census a month ago. We expect the alteration because it will be altered and the Skopje population that this census will be given twenty years later, so that we see the 100 000 Greeks that Gligorov said in 1992, how they were made in 2001 by magic four hundred and twenty-two. And we will see why the Slavs were fighting with the Albanians and instead of in ten years the census takes place after twenty years. We wait for it and after the developments lately invoked by the Skopje in Article 38 of the constitution, they do not accept the 2018 referendum, they speak of the 1991 referendum and Skandah Ibraimova, who is also a member of a left party - there is no need to be only with the VMRO of Gruevski, Mitskovski - what he says? "We will sign the Macedonian constitution, as Article 38 of local government expressly states." That is why we are calling and saying that this harmful, devastating, tragic, shameful and betrayal agreement will put us into adventures. What you see here is a pencil decorative that says up "Makedonskaya" to say so, Macedonia. What souvenirs have made in Skopje called "Macedonia" to sell all this to the stock must be ten years. So prepare for the vision of Macedonia, Iliden and Pirin, and this is evidenced by Steppe and Aerodrop, the two municipalities now that these municipal councillors were elected and signed up to Macedonia's constitution. That's why we're saying the pouch of Halos opened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u251	Thank you very much, Mr Buba. Mr Athanasios Zebblelis from New Democracy is called in Stepma and Mrs Arapatzi from New Democracy is being called upon to prepare. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u252	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all we must point out that the provisions of the Criminal Code we are debating today do not constitute mechanical regulations limited to the limits of a legal microcosm. On the other hand, they concern social organization and economic activity as a whole. After all, while for us lawyers crime is mainly a violation of a rule of criminal law, for society the dimensions of crime are clearly wider. It is clear, therefore, that the adoption of such legislation that poses the social problems of its time should seek wider consensus and alliances. Unfortunately, the previous government voted for the new Criminal Code during the pre-election period, turning it into a matter of acute confrontation due to its critical time, but also to its regulatory field of substantive provisions, provisions that have also been judged by the Association of Prosecutors, which warned of the risk of the breaking out of public order and the cultivation of the victims of criminal acts of reasonable impunity, impunity, which has also been strengthened by mass liberties of the Decongestive Law of Friday. In view of the policy of this mild and relaxed management of the anti-social phenomenon, New Democracy had been committed from the outset to restore citizens' security by reviewing provisions of the new Criminal Code, which would be considered problematic in the course of time. In fact, during society’s leakage it has been faced with new forms of high crime. It was faced with unusually many incidents of brutal and extreme anti-social attacks. It was not short times when the panhellenic was literally shocked by unprecedented crimes of unprecedented cruelty for Greek data. And it is true that such crimes trigger the intense indulgence of the social body, which responsiblely and maturely sets the ceiling on the tolerance threshold of the state. Is the system of justice unaffected under the prevailing circumstances? Ignore the sense of insecurity and fear of citizens? Can he really leave defenseless such attacks on vulnerable social groups, minors, elderly people, women? So there is a debate on this. And I don't mean, of course, as such criminal populism and improvised judges and punishing activists. I mean the serious debate, which is fatal to the concept of justice. It is linked, however, to its recruitment by the social body and is therefore not purely legal, as it is based on universal values and universal rights, such as life, sexual freedom and inadmissibility. So today, with this draft law, citizens' safety is being shielded and the public is being satisfied with the sense of law by introducing provisions to tighten up the procedure for granting the existing condition of dismissal and, as a result of the actual elaboration of the penalty in specific offences, such as the offences of manslaughter, trafficking in human beings, the criminal organisation, terrorism, the kidnapping of minors, robbery, blackmail, as well as stricter penalties for crimes of major criminal deception, such as those of manslaughter, group rape, fatal rape, fatal robbery, as well as rape against minors. Who really disagrees with the upgrading of crimes against the sexual freedom of minors? Here it is interesting to say that, according to official figures from the Greek Police, in 2020, we had an average complaint of child rape this week. In more detail, there were two hundred forty-four cases of sexual dignity of minors and three hundred cases of sexual abuse and pornography in Greece. Is it therefore possible to close our eyes to such morbidity, but, unfortunately, there are and constantly multiplying abuses that destroy the psychic of small and innocent children? However, in order to avoid misunderstandings, I would like to make three points: The first is that this draft law refers to and distinguishes a specific category of offences. In addition, the rule should be particularly degrading criminal repression and adopting alternative penalties in the context of a proportionate and diligent system for the award of justice. This is the direction of the European Union. That is what the liberal worldview and the system of values of the Western world demands. The second is that, given that stricterisation is not panacea, prevention should be given, particularly to offences that extremistly manifest domestic violence and racial violence against women. Sensitivity and prevention are needed in order to eliminate blind stereotypes and often kill them. The third point is that staying longer in prisons increases the risk of founding prisoners and conditions in prisons are of great importance not only because they are the mirror of a society, but also for reasons of public order. Whether we want it or not the prisoners, we will meet them again in front of us after their release and it is important then that they are disfellowshipped and, if anything, that they have not become involved in upgraded criminal activity. It is clear, therefore, that relapse in crime is an indicator of failure and the decline of a society, an indicator of the failure of an entire culture. So we should invest in prisoners, detention conditions, education, periodical communication with society and, ultimately, their smooth reintegration into it. I know, of course, that many of these powers do not belong to the Ministry of Justice, but we must have a holistic approach to the criminal phenomenon which is a complex phenomenon. To conclude, I would like to point out that this draft law, which is legally sound and proportionate, sets the guarantees and limits that allow the necessary balance between security and freedom of citizens. After all, citizens' freedom depends mainly on the quality of criminal law, as the great liberal intellectual Montesquier said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr. Zebble. Mrs Fotini Arabaji has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today for the second time since New Democracy took over the country's governance before the National Representation to restore the sense of impunity and insecurity, which the previous government has in many cases installed with a specific ideological mark and a specific party's 'Privatisation' policy, I will say. We are here today faithful to our election commitments and to the people's mandate to remove regulations that are challenging by the change of the Criminal Codes from the SYRIZA, changes which were only adopted in the day before the Greek Parliament closed down, on the one hand, the lack of respect for both Parliament and, above all, the rule of law and the confidence of the citizens in it in a favoured and modern democracy. I think I would remind you of Stavros Kontonis's report that the changes to the Criminal Code, which you have made, were effectively throwing Golden Dawn or serving interests, such as the conversion of active bribery, felony fraud and felony misappropriation into a flood. They naturally came to our country internationally and dragged it into all international organisations. Today, with the thorough legalisation and processing of the pain of the Ministry of Justice - and I would like to congratulate the leadership of the accelerated ministry - we are emiting a multiple, strong and clear message: immunity, far more provoking crime ends here! The common sense of law, which has been heard so many times today in the committees and in this Chamber, is satisfied and satisfied when the legislator does not legislate out of society, but when he disowns it, he gives a legal response to the timeless but also to the current manifestations of crime in a proportionate and fair manner, operating not penalising but penalising, preventive and dissuasive. A legal system responds with its proportionality and rigour, when, for example, it turns environmental crimes from delinquents to felony. It is inconceivable when the whole planet discusses the climate crisis, when the next generations are in danger of living in an environment hostile to man, we regard arson as a flood. It is inconceivable that thousands of acres should be destroyed, human lives lost, property lost, animal capital lost, and, at the end, that the gray of ecological and human destruction comes to add the injustice of impunity, which destructs and - why not? It encourages the ambitious new arsonists. And I really do wonder, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, what logic did you have to degrade it in July 2019 to a plight of you who, at every opportunity, displayed and projected your environmental sensitivities, you, who had in your polls and representatives of the Economists? Is the environmental sensitivity and arson flood agreed, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? Obviously not! Ladies and gentlemen, the bill upgrades to crimes of major criminal deception, traditional crimes, so-called heinous crimes. It's annoying the Opposition because it's just downgraded it. Terrible homicides, modern feminine homicides, which we are unfortunately witnessing lately, but also cases of uncovering child abuse and rape. And I ask why many have been said about criminal populism, about hot-tracking, is it criminal folkism and generalised rigour, as you say, to define life as the only penalty for all these felony acts? That it is not possible to remove or destroy a life, knowing that it will serve a few years of imprisonment and find itself free again? This is where another plus the bill, which we are discussing today, is based, which is the increase in the actual creation of the penalty, which is demanding and demanding a whole range of Greek society. The only penalty now for life imprisonment for the crimes of the last treason, the fatal robbery, the group rape, the fatal rape. I want to believe that you all agree that this criminal treatment is fair and proportionate. I'm guessing it doesn't fit into the balance of your own jurisprudence, neither the homicide nor the rape of minors. I hope that SYRIZA's rightmakers do not only see rights to the victims, but above all to the victims as we all owe them. Where there are victims, and where there are intended serious physical damage, there is provision for increasing the sentence from a temporary sentence of up to ten years in a temporary incursion from five to fifteen years. The criminal legislator, ladies and gentlemen, must disguise society, react, pedagogically and primarily deterrently in sad cases, for example in the well-known case with the vitriol that has shocked the Greeks. The state must function legally in response to the cornerstone question of both the victims and the entire society. Yes, there's the concept of restoration. Yes, there's the meaning of due justice that is being conscientious, prevented, restored. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will ask for a minute with your tolerance, Mr President. Before I go to sexual crime, I would also like to make a reference to the amendment, Mr Secretary of State, of Article 84, in which theft sentenced to theft will be brought to prison and the offence will not in practice be unpunished, as in SYRIZA, where it was punished by the 2019 amendment from ten days to three years. Minister, I have a live example in my constituency, and indeed in the area of Heraclea Serres, where day-to-dayfting is the regularity, unfortunately, of the citizens. What was and what was that normality? The perpetrators are arrested every day. People are going to their jobs and at the same time they are being warned that they are entering their homes and stealing, but they are never punished because - you see - the previous legacy was in place and Article 99 on suspending the execution of the sentence, since it was not longer than three years. Therefore, you are rightly bringing up the crime of stealing and leading the aspiring thieves to prison. To close, Mr President, and thank you in advance for the tolerance, I remember the crocodile tears that threw SYRIZA, when the history of sexual harassment broke out and when the government backed up with acts rather than the Me Too movement. I remember, of course, the bad posts of SYRIZA against the Prime Minister. I remember your voices about human sensitivity and sexual freedom. And now that we're on our way, the Ministry of Justice comes and strictens the provisions of the Law on sexual crime, on the self-prosecution of sexual harassment at the workplace, you don't like this rigour, and you have re remembered the rightfulness of the victims and the need for mild sentences. For us, however, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the Me Too movement does not end where the publicity lights turn out. It is a constant and consistent effort, which will continue every day and in the long term, to prevent such crimes being committed in order to break the silence and dare to speak out to those who have not spoken and to shield those who have, of course, suffered it in the future. No tolerance to the crime of incest! What about human rights, after all, also about individual freedoms, when incest is a flood? It's a self-righteous felon. And because we do not legislate in vacant but we listen to society, you remember, on the occasion of Me Too, how many discussions have taken place on the issue of the limitation of crimes. That is why the limitation now begins from the adulthood of the victim by extension of one year, when it is a flood and three years, because it is a felony and, of course, the misappropriation of a minor in all ages and in all forms, is recurring as a felony. Ladies and gentlemen, our society is watching and listening to us all, and above all they are listening to those who have been victims, who have experienced infraction, crime and abuse. So let's not disappoint them. Cross-party support for such legislative initiatives is the best and fairest response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mrs. Arabaji. Mr Panaghi Capatos from New Democracy has the floor to prepare Mrs Helena Rapt from New Democracy and to close with Mrs Anna Mani - Papaderiou from New Democracy. The curtain will close in the best way! Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u256	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, any change of small or medium sized nature, any change of total or partial nature, any reform either individually or not, any intervention which is broadly or limited to any area of public policy, takes place in a specific time and institutional context. It is in other words those conditions which allow us and often require us to legislate on targeted arrangements for specific problems. The draft law of the Ministry of Justice not only falls within the framework I have just described, but I dare say that it is a more specific example of my finding. Knowledge of the proposed draft is the conclusion of the Legislative Committee set up in March 2020. The committee was responsible for monitoring the implementation of the new Criminal Code and the new Code of Criminal Procedure after their entry into force on 1-7-2019. The draft law includes amendments, improvements and streamlining of penalties provided for in the guidelines proposed by the committee concerned. Of course, this adds to the reintroduction of important provisions which had either been abolished or degraded to defects. Finally, the adoption of provisions to address the malfunctions observed in the previous two years' application of the new codes clearly concerns the philosophy of this draft law. As already noted throughout the meetings of the Committee on Public Administration, the draft law is in four main directions. Since the tightening of penalties for specific crimes of particular criminal decency, the reintroduction and broadening of reverence to commonly dangerous offences, as well as abuses concerning crimes against the sexual freedom and economic exploitation of sexual life, we see the unfolding of the priorities adopted in this draft law. It is a fact that all the interventions which are being made have been extensively developed in this Chamber. I shall therefore be content with a mere reference to the main aspects of the draft law capable of understanding what we are talking about. Life imprisonment is now a unique sentence for the offences of the last treason, the homicide of group rape, fatal rape and the fatal robbery. Both the device for serious physical damage is tightened and covers all forms of fault and the standard conditions for granting conditional dismissal. The offence of forest arson is now only standardised as a felony and its basic form, at the same time as the fishing offense in the sea and inland waters is restored. With regard to crimes against personal freedom, sexual freedom and economic exploitation of sexual life, we now anticipate the self-prosecution of sexual dignity in the workplace. In the proposed change, the time for the complaint shall be five years with the prosecutor to prosecute following a reference, a suspension or other information that the offence has been committed without requiring the procedural condition of the three-month period for the submission of the complaint. Incest subsequently turns into a felony. This act is now being punished as a prison attack from three to five years. The proposed change will be punished by imprisonment from five to ten years if the act is carried out by parents and grandparents to children and grandchildren respectively. Another important intervention concerns the change in the time of the start of the violation of crimes, trafficking in human beings, the kidnapping of a minor and the offences against sexual freedom. The limitation is now beginning to run from the adulthood of the minor by extending one additional year if the act is a flood or another three years if the act is a felony. The aim of the arrangement is to provide sufficient time for the adult to denounce the act so that it does not endure unpunished. Regarding the offence of the execution of sexual acts by minors is currently punished according to the age of the minor. In particular, as a flood, if the child is between 14 and 15 years old with a prison sentence of between two and five years. If a minor is from 12 to 14 years, in prison from 5 to 10 years and underage is up to 12 years in prison from 5 to 15 years. With the proposed change, the offence is now punished only as a felony in all its forms. Ladies and gentlemen, with the reference of only a few of the many important regulations we are introducing today, I have tried to highlight the particular importance they possess. How could they be different, since we are essentially talking about the absolute and effective protection of vulnerable social groups, of minors, for example, of citizens of third countries and victims of sexual abuse and exploitation, which, because of their position and the abuse they have suffered, require increased legislative controls, allowing victims to feel security and to report their crimes in good time? After all, this is the most important task of the rule of law, the security and certainty of all citizens that they can find their point of view when they consider it to be affected. I conclude my suggestion, ladies and gentlemen, in the way I started, that the framework within which we discussed all the previous days and vote today. I don't need to mention much, rather than urge you to look around. See the courage of women to manifest and denounce malicious behaviours against men, whose position they thought allowed them to exercise over women, feminine crimes that expose women to the danger, but also the consequences of a malicious, brutal behaviour of men who think they have the power to impose on them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In fifteen seconds I have finished, Mr President. And since you consider everything that I have said, come to today, that is to say, in the draft law that clarifies penalties and provisions for crimes that fall within the framework that I have mentioned. After considering and realizing the importance of the moment, I invite you to overcome any micro-party differences that stand at the height of the circumstances. The vote in favour of this draft law is not only a positive attitude within the strict parliamentary procedures. It is the opposite attitude of life, the attitude of responsibility, but also the seriousness of the many unpleasant things that we are watching happening around us. It is, moreover, the very life and the conditions it brings, in which we are called upon to legislate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr. Cappato. Mrs Helena Rapt from New Democracy is called in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a law of exceptional importance amending our Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. I believe that it expresses to the fullest extent and the maturity of our legal culture, but also the infallible sense of society. Among the proposed changes first, for crimes involving specific crimes, such as homicide, gang rape, fatal robbery and others, the only penalty is life imprisonment. We all have the images from the recent tragic incident of the robbery at a fish shop in Thessaloniki, where a new kid was coldly murdered. Secondly, the penalty for the intended physical damage to temporary imprisonment of up to 15 years is increased and, in particular, disability and permanent deformation are added to the concept of serious physical harm. I am sure that the case of John who was attacked by a vitriol has shocked us all and reminded us that it was necessary for similar crimes to be legislated strictly. Thirdly, the conditions for dismissal are strictened and the penalty rate is increased due to a beneficial calculation from 3/5 to 4/5. With the new law, prisoners will stay longer in the penitentiary system, and we are also answering the reasonable question of society about the convenience and speed at which prisoners are released from prison. It also changes the threshold of life imprisonment that is now growing from 16 to eighteen years. Fourthly, crimes against the environment are also regulated with appropriate rigour. In the crime of arson, as in the arson of forests, it is sufficient that a man dies to bring the penalty of life imprisonment, while the offence of forest arson is now a felony in its basic form with a sentence of 8 years and a financial penalty. We have all lived through the tragic moments of the country in the fires in the summer, and I think we all agree that the responsibilities and penalties should be heavy on the perpetrators. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also briefly like to refer to the provisions of the bill relating to crimes against sexual freedom. And because of the particular nature of the crimes, but mainly because of the incidence of many incidents, it is necessary to review them in a stricter context of penalties. In relation to the Code of Criminal Procedure, the right of the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay also to order interrogation and the introduction to the audience of absolute priority cases of exceptional nature or of crimes against the sexual freedom and economic exploitation of sexual life is regulated in relation to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Also, the examination as a witness to the minor victim is no longer carried out in the Juvenile Victim Protection Offices of the Juvenile Victims of the Juvenile Region. Thus, it is possible to undergo an individual assessment at the Independent Offices for the Protection of Adult Victims of the Child that have already been launched. And where these are not available, the evaluation will be carried out by the Minors' Offices of Minors and Social Aid in collaboration with the pediatrician's specialists. Changes are many and important. I begin with the insult of sexual dignity in the workplace, which we all know is happening often. In these cases persecution will no longer be done by imprisonment, but it will be self-determination. The incest is reincarcerated by a felony that is today and is now in prison from five to ten years if carried out by parents and grandparents to children and grandchildren respectively. In group rape, the sentence is now life imprisonment. Trade in human beings if it brings death, it also brings life imprisonment. The punishment of offenders who exploit the immediate need for victims to work is widened. The offence against adults is coming into effect, since its abolition was clearly incorrect. A provision is introduced for the examination of adult victims of sexual abuse offences, such as rape, the presence of a psychologist or a psychiatrist, so that he can diagnose the perceptive ability and mental state of the victims. To minor children, which we all have a particular sensitivity, and which we have highlighted the need to tighten up the penalties for offences, the time has changed for the start of limitations on the offences of trafficking in human beings, the predicament of minors and offences against sexual freedom. The limitation is now initiated by the adulthood of the minor and extended for a further year, if the act is a flood, or for a further three years, if the act is a felony. In other words, we have enough time for the victim to be able to denounce the state to prosecute. The insult of sexual dignity and the insult of sexual decency for minors will now be persecuted, not by imprisonment, as is currently the case, and the time to report the crime will be increased in five years. Today the offence of committing sexual acts with minors, seduction, is punished according to the age of the minor. This is now stopping crime only as a felony. Thus, the misappropriation of a minor up to 12 years old has a prison sentence of ten to fifteen years, and if the child is from twelve to fifteen years old, a sentence of five to fifteen years is provided for. Depending on age limits, penalties have been strictly adapted to other offences, such as child pornography, sexual act with minors for pay and others. Finally, child rape brings without second discussion the penalty for life imprisonment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Criminal Code must adapt to the needs of the changing society. The proposed changes are in the right direction and are in line with the State's basic obligation to operate with a framework of penalties that are modern and fair and that is in line with European conventions and in line with the public on the legal sense. Before I close, I would like to express my particular satisfaction at the part of the provisions governing offences against the sexual freedom of children, where penalties are now being made very strict, which I have also given to a personal struggle, and I am glad that it is now taking the form of the law. I hope that these changes will be a sign of convergence of all the factions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mrs. Rapt. And we'll close with Mrs. Anna Mani - Papadimitriou from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure are no doubt laws that affect citizens' lives and daily lives. That is why a modern Criminal Code must be in line with the data of the time, give solutions to modern social problems and be in line with each other's sense of law. The fundamental changes introduced today by the Ministry of Justice are moving in that very direction. They correct existing failures, modernise and adapt basic criminal provisions to the new social status qua and above all create the feeling that it is safe, that it is protected by the state, which legislates fairly, but also strictly where required. Reforms move on four axes: First of all, the framework of penalties for a number of crimes that are particularly criminally deceptive to so-called 'acceptable crimes' is stricter. So homicide, group rape, fatal rape, fatal robbery, but rape against a minor will now be punished by the maximum penalty, life sentence, regulation more than self-evident, regulation that society itself demands. In the same context, because it is also a requirement of society, the sentenced to serious offences will remain longer in the penitentiary establishments, genuinely assessing their sentences, as the new Criminal Code clarifies the conditions for the current conditional dismissal. Then the second axis of the bill moves towards protecting the natural environment, an issue at the heart of the government's agenda and of the Prime Minister himself, Mr Mitsotakis, a matter of vital importance, a debt of this generation towards the next generation. In this context, penalties for so-called 'environmental crimes' are being tightened. For example, the offence of forest arson is now being standardised in the new Criminal Code as a felony. Furthermore, on the third axis, it is important to take care of the Criminal Code for protecting sexual freedom. The Me Too phenomenon, the intercurrent incidents that marked Greek society, the need to protect our vulnerable people, triggered the reflexes of the government and the Ministry of Justice. Thus, the self-prosecuting prosecution is being introduced to insult sexual dignity in the workplace, the penalties for trafficking in human beings are being tightened up, the offence against adults is being reinstated, and incest is being turned into a felony. In addition, such cases will take place as a priority, and in the same direction is the recent circular of the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay on the priority introduction to the audience of cases of domestic violence and related cases. Fourth and last, but very important, because it is about the lives and souls of innocent children, it is the arrangements that create a framework for the protection of minors. Really, ladies and gentlemen, is there anything more important than the children, the present and the future of every place? As a lawmaker, as a parliamentarian, but also as a mother, I believe that offences against minors must be punished with the strictest possible penalty. In this direction the new Criminal Code provides that offences against the sexual freedom of minors are now being persecuted automatically, as are the execution of sexual acts by a minor, the so-called 'deceit of a minor', which will be punished as a felony, regardless of the age of the minor. Also, for the rape of a minor, as mentioned above, the penalty for life imprisonment is laid down without any role in the age of the minor and without any asterisk, colleagues from the Officerial Response who invoke the principle of proportionality you say that the penalty should be escalated according to the age of the minor, because the sizes in this regard are taken into account for the application of the principle of proportionality and the penalty. The government is clear about this: Child rape is an absolutely condemnable act, one of the most appalling and heinous crimes and must be punished in any case by the heaviest penalty, whatever the child's age. Protection of life and sexual freedom of minors is absolute, it is unnegotiable. It can't be put under conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, the criticism was expressed by the opposition that the new Criminal Code allegedly introduces an unreasonable blinded strictening of penalties. This is not the case at all. The new Criminal Code deals more severely only with particularly deceptive offences. On the contrary, less serious offences are dealt with in many cases more urgently. In any event, the general provisions of the Criminal Law which the judge will judge if they are in the case at hand and will take into account them in the measurement of the penalty. I am referring to Article 84(2), which includes the lightening circumstances of the earlier life, the conclusion of the act by non-minor causes, sincere repentance and good behaviour after the conclusion of the act. I will not go along with my dear colleague in the Administrator's office that the judges will try to devise lightly every time. This, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be done in practice because the judge's decision to take into account alleviating circumstances must be specifically justified and must be based on the facts written in the judgment. It can't be a theoretical construction. Ladies and gentlemen, the new Criminal Code is a fair, balanced piece of legislation that responds to modern reality and looks on the one hand at the effective penalisation of criminals and, on the other hand, at the necessary sense of security for all citizens. It is a valuable tool in the hands of the Greek judges, a code that suits a modern rule of law, a rule of law that, as our Prime Minister said, coordinates its steps with society and the times. A state above all that proposes the fundamental provision of Article 2 of the Constitution, which stipulates that respect and protection of human value are the primary obligation of the state. For all these reasons, I am voting in favour of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mrs. Papadimitriou. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-10-S1-commons.u262	With the consent of the House at 20:47 the meeting for tomorrow, Thursday, November 11, 2021, at 10: 00, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, continuation of discussion and vote at the beginning, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: "Amendments to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, other provisions of the Ministry of Justice".
