ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House in writing: "Towards the Greek Parliament Special Secretariat of the President of Parliament With this in mind, we are telling you about the topical and urgent debate on parliamentary scrutiny on Monday 12 April 2021 that the topical questions to be debated are as follows: Question No 638/1-4-2021 will be answered by the Minister of National Defence Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos. Questions Nos 633/29-32021 and 645/4-2021 will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Constantine Skreka. The number 636/31-3-2021, 639/14-2021 and 649/5-2021 topical questions and the number 4126/12-2-2021, 4378-19-2-2021 and 4388-19-2-2021 questions, according to Rule 130(5) of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Health Mr.K. Kontozamanis. Questions Nos 641/1-4-2021, 642/4-2021 and 656/5-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs Evangelos (Evangelos) Syrigo. Question No 628/29-32021 will be answered by the Secretary of State for Culture and Sport, Eleftherios Aegeanakis. Questions Nos 646/4-2021 and 659/5-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis. The Question Nos 627/29-3-2021 and 650/5-2021, as well as the Question No 3550/26-1-2021, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure, will be answered by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr Ioannis Economou." The third will be discussed under number 633/29-32021 in the first cycle of MP B2' Western Athens of the Movement of Change Mr. Konstantina (Nantias) Giannakopoulou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Annaeus direct planning for dismantling and the last line of high voltage airlines from the Municipality of Agios Anargyros Kamaterou and their replacement with underground high voltage cables (Y.T.)". The question will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Konstantinos Skrekas. Mrs. Yannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, today with my current question, which I have tabled and discussed, I would like to come back to a special, major issue, which has been agitating and confronting the inhabitants of the Municipality of St. Anargyra - Kamaterou over time. On 14 October 2020, during the debate on the first time question, which I had tabled on this issue, the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Tagaras, came and responded here beyond the Step of the Parliament and committed himself to dismantling and keeping timetables for the dismantling of three high-voltling circuits, as set out in the 10-year development programme of the IPTO. However, Minister, there is still one topic: there is still a high-voltage line, for which it should be under-utilised. I would again stress the fact that studies and measurements, carried out, show that the levels of electrical and magnetic fields - electromagnetic radiation - at certain points vary - within a densely populated residential tissue - close to or above the permitted limits, as set by the competent authorities of the European Parliament. In technical terms, I am referring to the line 150 kWh on the link between Saints Anargyra and Acharnes, a total length of 8.4 km. The biggest problem with this line - and that is why I insist on bringing it here before you, Minister - is that of the place where these pillars are located and where they are located. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, I would ask for your tolerance. It is therefore incomprehensible and particularly harmful that these pillars are based, firstly, within the “Antonis Tritsis” park, which you know what visitability it has from families and from young children. Secondly, they border right next to the "Mother", Minister, and you realize how sensitive this issue is. And, of course, they are at a very close distance from the National Centre for Disabled Disabled Persons "Agioi Anargyroi" and from the Foundation "Theotokos". So you understand how important it is to be able to deal with this issue and I am transferring you through this timely question the intense and perfectly reasonable concerns of the people, because their health is even more burdened daily both through the high-voltage lines and, of course - and we do not forget - by the Gypsy Cystal, which in particular is passing part of this line in Cameroon and by its extension that has been decided before a time is just two to three kilometers. So, on the basis of all that I have mentioned and because of the risk arising from the existence of this line, I would like to ask you whether you intend to take the necessary steps to integrate sub-institution and this line into the next ten-year IPTO Development Programme 2022-2031. And finally, I ask you whether you intend to make the effective protection of the Antonis Tritsis park by subjugating the middle and low-voltage lines of the TEDO. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u3	Thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Before I refer to the issues of the topical question tabled by Mrs Giannakopoulou from the Change Movement, which gives a great opportunity to discuss the question of modernising and substituting electricity transmission and distribution lines in our home country, I would like to say to you that on the occasion of a timely question tabled by my good colleague, Mr Fotini Pipilis, I mentioned in the government's plan to finance this modernisation and subordination through the resources of the Recovery Fund. Of course, I have referred to the 'Medea' that the DEDEFOP has already commissioned a study, which - as I know - is going to receive in the next few weeks, where there is a prioritisation of those areas where direct air power lines must be subjugated, to avoid fire risk, for example, where these pass through high vegetation areas, through forests - whether perimeter or not - because we are again in danger of damage to and interruption of electricity from severe weather phenomena, through severe snowfall. I would therefore like to say that we have already made progress on this. I have said that since June, the bulldozers will start in areas that will first be prioritised to dig and ground wires. That's the kind of area that's Tatoi. Also, I would like to tell you now, but also in my dentistry that one more of these areas will be the Antonis Tritsis park, where the mid-voltage transfer lines, which pass through the Antonis Tritsis Park, are about two kilometers the average voltage and one kilometre the low voltage. So, they're lines that we're going to subjugate quickly. The rest of this is in my dentext, Mr President, so that there is a consistency and that is where I shall refer to and how we need to incorporate the ten-year programme for the development of IPTO into the subordination or redirection of the high-voltage lines, namely the power lines.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u5	Here, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I listen with interest, and I welcome your intention to put in the plan to make use of the recovery fund's resources the undermining of high-voltage lines. But we expect to hear much more specific things about it. We expect to hear the specific amounts you are planning for there, specific timetables, specific areas. In short, we expect a much more specific position on this, because it is nice to agree in principle on issues, but governments are particularly judged by the results. So that's what we're asking you to hear. Also, as a Movement of Change, but also myself, we are calling for you - because after my ongoing consultations with residents in the region, as I have said before, this major issue that exists - to set as a direct and first priority the improvement of quality of life in an area which, unfortunately, has been hit both environmentally and healthly. And you know that West Attica, West Athens and especially the Municipality of Saints Anargyro - Kamaterou has been deeply affected. I would therefore ask you to show a substantial mood for a holistic and comprehensive approach to the problem. After all, we have also seen the results of the recent disasters caused by the 'Medea'. It is good, then, that the government does not run retrospectively on these over-period issues. We're not going to make cheap opposition. But we also ask you to speak specifically with a specific plan for areas such as Western Athens, which have a very serious problem. So I want to remind you of something, Minister. I do not know if you know this, but I would like to put it to your attention and listen to it very carefully. In 2008, the country's Prime Minister himself today, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, as a MP at the time of the Second Athens, had tabled a question to the then Minister of Development Mr Christos Folias for the removal of the pillars from the Center of Babys "Mother". I give it to you in the Minutes to keep it in mind. Obviously this shows that this work was of interest to him. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantina Giannakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So we expect your Government to show that this was not just a communication flare of thirteen years ago, but also the prime Prime Minister, who is elected in the Western sector of Athens, to show his particular interest through you and also to press him in his turn in this direction. I close by asking you, as I have said before, more concrete elements, more concrete planning and prioritisation of areas that have already been undermined environmental and health. And ask you another question. I should like to stress, however briefly, the very big issue of the serious delays in the adoption of IPTO's programmes by RAE. He's sure you know that. There is, therefore, a very serious issue and we should not, Minister, be faced with major delays in launching and delivering the projects already included in the 10-year development programmes of IPTO, such as the other three lines undertaken by Mr Tagaras in October 2020. We expect that all the programmes, which are part of the ten years, will not be delayed because of the delays that RAE shows against IPTO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Screka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u8	As I said, you have rightly put it. Let me remind you once again that the integration of airtracking interventions into the Recovery Fund had taken place before the arrival of the "Media", this extraordinary weather event, just on the occasion of this event, was given the opportunity to communicate with what we had already planned under the guidelines and guidelines, which the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis himself, himself, has given, who knows how sensitive he is in this matter and how sensitive he cares to move forward quickly and to implement interventions and actions, which unfortunately have not taken place in our country for decades. We have often said that unfortunately in Greece we have about eighty thousand kilometres of air cables. A small percentage has been subsidized by electricity transmission and distribution cables when in other countries of Europe this figure can be close to 50% or more. So we're really determined and you'll see it next time. You are right to request a timetable and priority areas. Let me pick up the study that the TEDO has given us over the next few weeks so that we can tell you specific things about when and where we will proceed to these substitutations. But let me refer to the specific question that you have raised. It is worth having an image of how any project is integrated into the 10-year programs for the development of IPTO. A number of parameters are taken into account, such as the necessary support for the system for the uninterrupted movement of power, the connection projects in the system, which are needed to integrate new power stations and new high-voltage consumers, the integration into the system of new interconnected transmission lines with neighbouring countries - because this is the work of IPTO - modernisation and in general the upgrading of existing infrastructure. With regard to the high-voltage transport line underpinning the above parameters, it will be assessed and included in the 10-year programme of the IPTO, which I must say has already been finalised and which has already been submitted to the RAE. We're talking about the 10-year Development Programme 2021-2031. In any case, however, I have to tell you that the leadership of the Ministry of Environment and Energy in cooperation with the competent departments of IPTO is currently being examined and we are investigating how we will explain and how we will be included in the 10-year programmes, on the basis of objectively always criteria, subordination and redirection where these high-voltage lines are needed. As far as public health is concerned, let me tell you something, because I do not hide from you that very close to my home here in Attica - not in Trikala, in Krioneri Attica - there is a high-voltage pillar. But I have to tell you that IPTO has already carried out a large number of measurements on the back of high-voltage and high-voltage transmission lines. Similar measurements and calculations have also been carried out by university institutions, as well as by the Greek Atomic Energy Commission. In any case, the values of these fields shall comply with the established limit values with great margins. This does not mean, of course, that they will prevent our intention - because it is not only a matter of safety and health, it is also a matter of visual discomfort many times, but also of the level of the human environment in which we live - and of determination to move forward with the consolidation of corresponding lines. I would like to say, however, that in terms of the magnetic field, in which the research is concentrated, the resulting values are several dozen to hundreds of times below the limit. So, at the moment, there is no risk of safety where measurements have been made and there is concern that there are settlements near these lines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u9	The Members of the Second West Division - who are here today - are waiting for the study. We hope that you will send her to us and that we do not have to ask another question. Thank you, Mrs. Giannakopoulou. The ninth is now to be discussed under No 645/4-2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Multilisation: Rescue jobs only through the immediate start of land restoration in the Kozani and Florina Prefectures". Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I would like to make a comment on what has just been discussed. It's very important. I cannot imagine that you will not proceed with the subjugation of the high-voltage pillars of Agios Anargyros beyond the park "Antonis Tritsis". You need to see it. You have to go. There's a pillar in the school yard. You need to go to St. Barbara and see what's going on. In the central square, the houses are built under pillars. And no matter what the Committee on Atomic Energy says, when you put the test screwdriver on the railings of these apartments, it turns on. That's the situation. You should go check it out. It's not a theory matter. You need to see where people live in Greece today in these neighborhoods. With regard to deprivation in western Macedonia, mines such as the closure of the mine in Amphintino with terrible risks are now closed, as restoration is not progressing. Drop drilling and increase the risk of landslides. In the Valtoneres area, the ground level has fallen by a meter and a half. We have a danger for the natural environment by stopping the natural flow of the Himaditis lake and its flow to the lake of the stones and completely sucking the mine in Ammonius the Himaditis lake. There are the problems of self-clearing. Of course the ash, which causes such major health problems, continues to be dispersed throughout the region. You have not actually committed yourself to rehabilitation. There is no primary plan for the restoration of the natural resources of the area, which could also be a backdrop of development for the area, which could respond to the great pollution of the aqueduct in the area of Agios Dimitrios with hexavalent chromium, etc. If you are actually investing in rehabilitating the territory, which you have not actually predicted in practice, we could stop this phenomenon of post-mortem depopulation in the region. We have over two and a half thousand jobs, which have been abolished over the last year and another two thousand that we have this year. You don't have a plan. Mr President, I would like a little tolerance. I'll be done. If you had, at least, the restorations, we could now talk about the employment of the people who worked for so long in the mines. If you want, we can talk about how you can sustain jobs in lignite plants after closing them. What does that mean? It means substantial funding for the restoration of these mines for which you have not committed yourself. Mr Hatzidakis signed it in the summer of 2020, as I mentioned in the question. It doesn't go any further. You are planning, with a allocation of EUR 300 million, to finance these restorations by the European Commission when EUR 150 million a year has been costing earthmoving to date. Sixty years. And you, with the money two years old, think you'll be rehabilitating. We want you to take this seriously. Western Macedonia is threatened with total population devastation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u11	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I would, of course, like the honourable Member to answer whether he agrees with the Greek Government's decision to proceed with a rapid decarbonisation of the country's energy production potential, i.e. whether he agrees to close the fugitives that smoke and pollute the atmosphere, emit millions of tonnes of carbon dioxide that cause global climate change and thus climate change. It would be very good if you could courageously say that "Yes, we want to close the lignite plants, we want to protect the environment". First of all, we must agree on this because it does not seem clear whether you agree or not. We made a very courageous decision. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis decided and finally proved that Greece can take the lead and can move faster than any other country in the carbonisation of electricity production. And that seems to be recognized by everyone whether they are either inside or outside the country. Of course, it is understandable that this has some implications for local society. A local society which, as the residents say there, lived from the'monoculture' of the use of lignite for electricity generation. This process, these actions, this activity is true that they supported the production of electricity, supported the development of our national economy for many decades. The conditions themselves, developments in the energy sector, the need to protect the environment and our planet, unfortunately, have made these activities disappear now and have to be replaced by new actions. It is a challenge, but for us, Mr Colleague, it is also a huge opportunity. It is a challenge, indeed, to replace several thousand jobs, which were linked to the use of lignite, with new jobs, linked to other actions, green actions, other actions, other activities and other investments to be carried out in this region. At the same time, however, it is also a great opportunity to prove that we can change the productive model of a region. We can change the local productive model and not only replace existing jobs, which are linked exclusively to the extraction of lignite, but create even more and more sustainable jobs that will enable desertification to stop substantially, large areas of the country, linked to this sector. We are ready, we have designed as I will tell you in my dentext, a very coherent visionary plan for changing the production model in these areas, namely Kozani, Florina and Megalopolis. It is a project which ultimately makes use of about EUR 5 billion in the coming years by 2028, where there is, of course, also mine restorations at its initial stage. I will talk to you about this following the debate, just to know, to tell you that we have already included EUR 300 million in the recovery fund, precisely so that we can make use of the measures in the areas of defoliation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u13	Thank you. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, can you tell us that you who for a thousand hundred jobs are completely destroying north-east Halkidiki for gold mining by dissolving the environment are interested in the environment? Are you coming to Ptolemais to tell us that from your interest in the environment you're throwing into the heart of twenty thousand workers? If you want to know our position on liberation read the Minutes, please be very aware. Read the Minutes. I know you are a recent Minister, read what we have said so many times in plenary. Merra25 fully supports degreasing, but not on the grounds of climate change to level an area without any transition plan, because you have no transition plan. You're creating a social hole. You create an area fully socially desolated. People are leaving the area right now. You're dissolving the whole tissue. How should liberation be done? Immediately you should have started rehabilitating territory. This may allow you to maintain all the jobs in the mines, moving away from liberation, but without a social hole. At the same time as converting PPC's units instead of tearing them down into heat stores with whatever system you find and you prefer to be able to use and store the power in effect and employ the workers themselves, what are you doing? You move on to the extreme closure of the units without any plan for employment and all you do is give the Polyfytos lake, the lakes, the soils and any hills in large multinational companies to make RES. Instead of making environmental restoration next to and within NATURA areas, I have called you again and again if you want to do something about climate change, do it where nature is not destroyed, with photovoltaics on the roofs and roofs of the house, with the benefits of the families and yes, then you can reuse the lignite plants in PPC for thermal energy storage and for any other model you find, so that they can sustain this Greek energy network, but the benefits of going to the households and the damage does not go to nature. You move on to a plan to make a social black hole in western Macedonia, no job plan, and all you do is give the very big people the whole region a photovoltaic, as if this would replace jobs. We call on you to change course before it is too late for an entire region of our country, western Macedonia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u15	Here, Mr. Screka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u16	Let me say, Mr President, the steps that have indeed been taken towards achieving the great dual objective, namely carbonisation, liberation and on the other hand fair transition to ensure that no one stays behind the people whose jobs are linked to this activity. In particular, with regard to what has been asked by the Member who has tabled the timely question, I would like to say that Article 155(2) and Article 155(2). 4 A programme contract between the Ministry of Environment and Energy and PPC S.A. is to be ratified by Parliament. With this programme agreement, which we will introduce to the vote, it will therefore take place in Members' knowledge, of course, and will be called upon to support it, expressly provided for the conditions and conditions for the upgrading of the areas by PPC, such as the monitoring of execution, the way in which they are transferred to the public following the underlying areas owned by PPC, as well as any other rights and obligations relating to these areas. Furthermore, any environmental restorations in PPC’s lignite areas are systematically implemented on the basis of natural GDP, environmental approval decisions and relevant environmental impact studies, which have been carried out while fully respecting the relevant environmental legislation provisions. In this context, PPC applies and respects its environmental conditions. 17-6-2020 decision approving the environmental conditions for the exploitation of Amyntium-Lakkia lignite mines of sixty thousand eight hundred and thirty square metres. In GDP, in what is already in force, there have already been better conditions and measures to protect the natural and anthropogenic environment here in the region. After all, the control of this mine, Mr Colleague, like the rest of Western Macedonia, is part of the programme of regular environmental inspections 2020-2021, as planned by the Ministry of Environment and Energy. The Ministry of Energy is therefore already committed and respects the implementation of these GDPs, i.e. decisions adopting environmental resources. I told you before and I repeat that the restoration of the lignite fields has been a priority, in the direction that our country has taken to restore and enable a fair transition to this area, for all the time that this transition will take place, of the local production model in these areas. One of these actions, which we will use for this is the restoration of the soil, so that we can maintain an important part of the jobs, of course, until they are replaced by new, sustainable jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u17	Minister, if you will allow me, I would like to ask a supplementary question. You talked about PPC's mines. For the private mines in the area, do you have any provision?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u18	Depends on which private mine you're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u19	The pear, for example.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u20	There are private mines, which for as long as we need to use lignite to produce electricity...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u21	No, they've been blocked to the point. I mean if these private mines are to be restored.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u22	There are provisions, as they have been approved for their operation, when these mines were operating, where provision is made for who and how should they be...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u23	I'm interested to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u24	Always when someone has a concession, whether this is a lignite mining mine or any mining of mineral wealth, it is then obliged to restore what he will deliver to the public.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u25	Yes, the private.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u26	Always.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u27	We're burned! The first, under number 634/30-32021, topical question by MP II West Attica, Evangelos Liakou, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The developments of the Trinity Trade Center" are not discussed due to the impediment of the honourable Member. The fourth under number 651/5-2021 topical question for the first cycle of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larissis of the Communist Party of Greece Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Direct restoration of the injustice and compensation of farmers - peach producers of the Larisa Prefecture for the damages suffered since the 2020 frost" is not debated as a result of an impediment by the MP. The fourth under number 655/5-2021 topical question from the F' Vice-President and Member of Parliament Laris of the Communist Party of Greece Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: ‘Simulation of all contract workers in the fields of cleanliness and guarding of primary health care structures’. of the 5th Health Region (U.S.)') It is not debated because of an impediment by the honourable Member. The fifth question, under number 637/1-4-2021, is a second question from MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'The olive oil is turned into an unhealthy product through the distortions of Nutri - Score'. We move to the seventh under No 659/5-2021 topical question of the second question by the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Implementation of the diversion of the Platy River and its conspiracy to improve works". The State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr. Ioannis Kefaloyiannis. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. That's an interesting question. We have a common point with Mr. Kefaliannis and a difference. The common point, the common place, is that the question is about the project of diversion of the Platis river and of the convoys for improvement that are planned for both Rethymnon and Heraklion, of course in the primary sector. It is expected with this task that the use of water resources, which are so essential for the agri-food sector, the competitiveness of the agri-food sector and the strengthening of the value of products and of course the income of producers, will be promoted. It is a project that has been launched as an idea and a proposal for too many years. Slowly, he entered a route. But I'd say it's been a thousand waves and delays. In view of the Recovery Fund, the question concerning the Minister - and here is our difference - is, first of all, to describe exactly what has been done with the projects, which are precisely what projects are included in this overall project. Because there has been a reduction in the budget from 180 to 120 million. Secondly, if it is possible to tell us a timetable for when the permits, studies, will be completed when the project will be ready. And because, at the moment, the proposals for the Recovery Fund are being 'locked', whether they will be integrated and financed by the Recovery Fund or by another financial project. Our difference in the end is that I expect answers and the Minister will give them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u30	Mr Colleague, I will tell you in advance that we have no difference, because you know that it is a project that concerns the two prefectures, and Rethymnon and Heraklion, in that it will be built in Rethymno, but in essence its usefulness will be for both prefectures and especially for the Messara area, which has particular needs of water supply. I will tell you - and I do not think I am bringing glauka to Athens - that in recent months, especially in the area of Crete, we have given very high priority to infrastructure and infrastructure matters in general, whether it relates to the development of studies and the licensing of the North Road Axis of Crete, a work emblematic and a decades' dream for the Cretan people, or other projects, such as the airport of Kastelio, where the precursors have begun and are now at the stage of implementation with a horizon by 2025. Also, what you are talking about to say, Mr President, is that it is a personal bet, because I have also expressed it as a Rethymnon MEP for many years, and therefore you realise that I have also a personal interest in moving forward and implementing this great project, which, as you rightly said in your prototype, is in fact two prefectures. As far as this project is concerned, I should like to inform you that there is a difference in the maturity of the studies. It's about two sub-projects. The first sub-project is the Platy of Rethymnon Prefecture, with a transfer line to Messara and Rethymno irrigation networks, which is, in essence, the great project, the main project to be done. The second subproject is a new study for a dam of Gerakari of the Municipality of Amari and irrigation of new areas along the transport pipeline to Mesara and the regions of Gerakari. As regards the first sub-project, it concerns the construction of the Platy dam in the Regional Unit of Rethymno, the construction of a water pipeline in the plain of Mesara and the construction of the irrigation network in areas of Rethymno Prefecture. Here, of course, is the aim of us to be able to irrigate a total area of forty thousand acres, the transport of excess water in the western area of the great plain of Mesara and the artificial enrichment of the watercourse in the Mesara plain. The second subproject, which was essentially integrated in the course, is the natural object of the study for a new dam in Gerakari, but for which technical studies have not been carried out, except for the identification geological study. At the present stage we are actually finalising the new study on the Gerakari dam, which includes irrigation of new areas in relation to the initial planning along the transport pipeline to Mesara and the regions of Gerakari. It is a cost study of a million euros, without VAT, but for which there is secured credit. And that will consider the feasibility of building - I repeat - the secondary dam of Gerakari. There will be a cost-benefit analysis in order to find whether a safe decision can be taken on the construction of the dam or not in order to proceed with the necessary studies. In order not to abuse your time, in my dentistry, I will tell you more about the main work and funding, but I will tell you in advance that it is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u32	Our difference has been confirmed. You're answering. That was our difference. I'm asking. There really are issues because the work is great and it is a special work. It is not about any technical work that may have been with standardized studies. It concerns the diversion of water tumors, their exploitation and for the benefit of the southern Rethymnon and for the benefit of the southern Heraklion. I would, of course, expect you to be clearer in your speech and in the timetable, but above all, about the possibility of joining the Recovery Fund and the government's intentions in this respect. However, in order not to spend time on well-known issues, because, as you and I have said, we have repeatedly raised these issues and we are now talking about another reality, today to see whether the water volumes, the water volumes, will be able to travel towards the Fauna dam, so that there will be indirect enrichment in the mesara plain, which has for many years been at risk of over-indulging. Let's see it and look at it, Minister. It is an issue that I put to you because Messara, as you know, has two dams. It has the Placiotissa dam, which will be irrigated by part of the eastern side and the Faneromeni dam, which has been irrigating for some years already the west side, with the known problems of the shortages, and that is why the strengthening and enrichment with the diversion of the Platy River is needed. We need to consider whether these quantities allow the networks of the Faistian dam to be extended to the east, so that it can be covered - let me say the names of the municipalities - beyond the Municipality of Faistos, which largely covers the areas in the Fainemene dam and part of the Municipality of Gortina, which is easter and until we reach the Placiotissa dam, in the area that is irrigated or irrigated by the Placiotissa dam. It is an issue that you need to consider to combine with the study then, in its implementation, in relation to irrigation networks, if they need to be extended and if this diversion really gives this possibility across the plain of Messara. I am asking for the source of funding, therefore, and for the timetable. Consider this aspect which I have put to you today in relation to the extent of irrigation. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u33	We too, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u34	Mr Colleagues, because we know each other very well, you know that I prefer to be relatively lacquer with regard to the evidence I give you and to be confirmed, rather than making promises that are not confirmed. I would remind you again in this Chamber when you asked me about the Recovery Fund and the North Road, when there was a parafiscality whether it would eventually be outside the Recovery Fund, that I explicitly assured you that it is within, something that was confirmed in the next few days after our speech in the House. I say the same to you now that we are going to get to funding. But it is good for this project to be specific about the timetable and how we got here. I would remind you that it is a project which, as an arrest, started by the government of Mr Karamanlis at some point in 2007. The studies continued in the government of Papandreou in 2010 with an implementation horizon of around 2017. Unfortunately, the previous government has not taken the steps it has needed since the studies were carried out so that this flagship work of the Platy dam and the diversion will proceed to a construction stage. What, unfortunately, we received in 2019 was a frozen process that we had to update. With the changes that have taken place with regard to the specifications of the studies, but also in the legislation of the projects, as I have said before, it was necessary to update them. And in order to speed up the process of updating the studies and the tenders of the project, the process of recruitment of a technical consultant was selected by the services of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, in accordance with Article 128 of Law 4412/2016. I should like to inform you that the services of the Technical Adviser are specifically the update of final Platy dam studies, a transport pipeline to Mesara and an irrigation network, an update of the tendering procedures of the Platy dam, the transport pipeline and the irrigation network, and also the update and control of real estate and real estate tables. I should like to point out here that we have already done so in advance, and we have incorporated by an act of the Ministerial Council in the procedure laid down in Article 7a for the Code of Conduct, so that we do not have to delay it. The task of the technical adviser is also to update the cost-benefit analysis. I inform you that a few days ago, by decision of the Secretary-General of Infrastructure, the award of the contract of technical adviser for the provision of the services I described to you was approved. The definition of this job is four months. In fact, this allows us to tell you today that at the end of the year, at the end of 2021, we will be able to talk about a tender. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] As far as funding is concerned, my colleague - and I am closing down with this, Mr President - first of all the work, also with the actions we have done at the Ministry, has been included in the Public Investment Programme 2021 and in the SAA-072 with a budget of 130 million, which also includes the necessary expropriations. I told you about the energy we did with the cabinet act. I confirm today to you and to all our fellow citizens who are listening to us that they have been proposed to the Recovery Fund. I can make a prediction that it will also have a positive outcome, but that remains to be finalised in the next few days. In any case, we have also looked at an alternative, if we do not have this positive conclusion, and with the European Investment Bank. But I can assure you that funding will be guaranteed and that programming is the task of being auctioned at the end of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, too. We will keep the Minister here, in order to answer the eleventh question under number 646/4-2021 of the second cycle of MP B2' West Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Scandalous rental of outdated buses at their purchase price". Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, it is really a shame that the Minister himself is not here. Obviously, we welcome your presence. Your responsibilities are clear. But on this matter the Minister should have been here. My question concerns the rental of buses, some of which have already been put into circulation these days. These are old-text cars, diesel engines, which, in essence, with their rental price, if we calculate it in the four-year period that is rental, they cost us as much as we would have bought them from the outset. And yet we've rented them for four years. Obviously, this rental will be extended for another four years, so that at the end, by another government, the purchase of the next buses, as you have announced. We'll have paid for it twice. My questions are clear: What were the criteria with which you chose to rent, which sounds incomprehensible? Why didn't you go directly to the bus market? Why are you giving extensions of life, instead of buying new buses, which are also particularly old technology? Why, although you are renting these buses with leasing, does the OSH, the public, the maintenance of them, the fees, etc., when it goes without saying that the company that gives the leasing takes over? Also, how hard will it be and what will the cost of this maintenance ultimately be for so many different types of buses? Do you have to answer, how is it possible, and there was an explicit reference from the Court of Auditors to the fact that you will proceed with this contract only if there are open windows, to take buses without opening windows? Eventually, when these buses have two doors, which one is closed for driver security reasons, will all the public come out and be cornered at one exit? And what other details we will discover in these conventions as we study them! We remain here waiting for your answers, as the questions raised in everyone's mind are shocking. You have to tell us what this is all about. You need to explain why there are shadows.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u37	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, I am afraid that your question is based on some wrong assumptions, which necessarily lead to wrong conclusions. I would point out that, first of all, the Government, in particular the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, did not approve the renting of used buses for the purchase of new ones. He chose the rental of second-hand, as well as the purchase of new buses. And you know that very well. Secondly, you will allow me to say that we have moved on to this movement, not because public transport is - as you say in your question - the proliferation of pandemic bombs, but because even a bus is supernumerous in the middle of a pandemic, we feel the need to take the necessary steps to address the problem. Thirdly, the rental of vehicles has been chosen, not only as the most economically advantageous process, but especially as the shortest one, such as the procurement procedure, because I think you will agree with me that the time for entering new buses in the Attica basin, as in Thessaloniki, and indeed in the midst of a pandemic, is a decisive factor, so that we can prevent the spread of pandemic. And, of course, I cannot imagine what you would have afflicted us as a government with the consequences of the pandemic and in the public transport sector, if we had not proceeded in the midst of a pandemic in adding some five hundred vehicles - I would remind you, Mr President, through the three hundred CCBs which have been launched and delivered through the leasing process - that is, if the Government had not made progress in the immediate strengthening of public urban transport. We would be here and perhaps discuss a question you asked about indifference or even non-preferential mobility requirements. But there is another mistake you make in your question. You will allow me to tell you that the used buses we have supplied are all Euro 5 technology. And in order to compare, what is circulating on the streets of the OSCE is a Euro 1, Euro 2 and Euro 3 technology mark. So we went to a much more new technology in a technology that we could quickly make the compromise procedures. So, where does it turn out to you that the atmosphere of the stain is further burdened by buses that are modern in terms of their technology? In fact, I would remind you that only last Friday we visited with the Prime Minister and Minister, Mr Karamanlis, the OSH train station, so that we could inspect the forty first buses from the tracosia, which will come out on the streets. I call on you, Mr President, to get on a bus like this, to make a route and then to see whether it is being upgraded under the present conditions by this procedure or not. As far as the environmental footprint is concerned, I will have the possibility of telling you more details. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u39	Mr Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, these buses are decades. What you're saying is that the buses that currently exist in the U.S. are worse. It's a lot older than that. That is why - you have misinterpreted it and I am therefore returning - it refers to the extensions that you give to old buses in violation of legislation and European law, rather than the competition. You haven't made any progress with the oldest competition. You said there were problems. You could change him. Go ahead with the announcement of a market competition, which will enter into 2024 and finalise in 2028 by another government. You are doing what you are doing is going to have buses not circulating in other countries, which is a decade, Euro 5, and even for four years you will pay them - I will say it again - at the price you would pay to buy them, with a leasing contract - I repeat, why you did not respond - that the public takes over and the maintenance costs and traffic charges, when the leasing contracts say exactly that these costs are borne by companies leasing. And you made all these costs for the public with over-profit for private individuals, for old-tech buses, without windows and a door in practice. Because, anyway, the driver's door is forbidden to open because of a coronary. That is, new buses may look more beautiful than old ones. I'm asking you again why you don't replace the entire fleet. In any case, however, at the moment, citizens will enter a beautiful box, which will have a door to come out. There they'll all be congratulated on each other, so they can get in and out at every stop. What are the consequences for the coronary? [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANASIOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] So there are too many questions, which are all left here. You have not responded to this delay in the market for new buses, nor have you answered what this leasing means to be done at market prices, because you have been renting them for four years at market price, because it is not because it takes up maintenance costs and public charges, but because you can not have approved buses without windows when the Court of Auditors has told you that it only approves them if they have windows. What will the consequences for public health of buses coming in and coming out of a door? These questions are, I think, central questions in the mind of all those who hear us and read us these days.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u42	Mr Colleague, I understand the need for opposition criticism. However, political controversy, at least as I understand it, even if it is subject to the power of the image, should take into account objective data. At the moment we are talking about, there is a process of upgrading the transport project that has been carried out in our country, at least in the last few decades, and indeed with the official information we have had in the middle of a pandemic, it has been the biggest upgrade in the last year compared with all the European capitals. I would remind you that for the first time staff were recruited in the public transport of Athens after twelve years. Six hundred ten people have actually joined the staff of both the U.S. and S.S.S.S.S.S.. We have strengthened the fleet of Thessaloniki from about two hundred twenty buses, circulating in July 2019 in about two hundred, or four hundred forty, circulating daily on the streets of the co-chair. In Athens we received eight hundred and fifty buses and trolleybuses from the Lefkadio in July 2019, and at the moment we are on a daily basis over a thousand hundred fifty and with the integration of the three hundred buses leasing we will reach a number, which will approach the number we had during the 2004 Olympic Games, that is, a thousand five hundred buses. So you understand that there has been substantial support and I give you concrete information, Mr Colleague, because we do not have to go to a general debate in this Chamber when we talk about such an important social asset, which is moving through public transport. As regards, as I have said, the consultation of the open tender, which concerns a EUR 372 million competition, will be corrected and I will tell you that it is a tender that will come out this year, will be completed at the beginning of 2022, i.e. with bus traditions, and it will not be made by any next government, it will be short, it concerns purely environmental buses. In particular, it is eight hundred in the number for Athens and Thessaloniki. In particular, they are two hundred simple urban buses, twelve meter, hybrid technology Euro 6, another two hundred compressed natural gas buses, i.e. CNG, also twelve meter, 100 buses articulated, eighteen meters, which will be electrical. One hundred are the artworks and they are CNG. In total, there will be eight hundred buses, i.e. three hundred electric, two hundred CNG and two hundred “full hybrid”, hybrid technology. So, you understand, Mr Colleague, that this time of year buses will begin to be delivered environmentally to both major cities in our country. And that's just the one contest. The second part, which will be about five hundred more buses, will come out at this time, so a total of three hundred. This competition is coming out now, because I recall that the Prosecutors' Authority had canceled the tender launched by the previous government, the SYRIZA Government electionally said that it had too many imperfections and implying too many procedures. So what did we do, Mr. Comrade? First, we raised the fleet with the existing means. I'm telling you that we increased spending on fleet maintenance by about 200%. We made the deal with the CBEL and incorporated some two hundred buses on the streets of Lefkanopedia. Three hundred more go now through leasing and go to the new competition for clean environmental buses. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I conclude, Mr President, and my colleague, by saying that, according to the EGE's sampling, but also internationally, the one identified as a indicator of passenger transmission is between 1% to 1.5% and in no case, at least, through the international data we have, it does not appear that urban transport alone is an outbreak of overtransmission. And indeed, if there are such scientific evidence and studies, it is good for the public dialogue to present them and discuss them, so that we do not terrorise the world. Measures must be taken. We are doing what we have to do, but we are not overreacting. I'm closing up on the maintenance issue, Mr. Comrade. OSH has all staff, all means and ways to deal with issues that may arise in terms of maintenance. In fact, the procedure followed is with the agreement of the OSCE workers and I would urge you to speak with them and see whether or not we agree with the way in which we chose to maintain these buses. There is no question of overcompensation, as you say, for maintenance work. The OSH shall carry out maintenance of the vehicles at its premises with its already trained technical personnel. And of course, everything will be done at contractors' expense. If you read the contract, you'll understand where I'm talking about. So, under no circumstances do we, as you say, give no private the issue of maintenance. On the contrary, we are using the know-how and workers of public urban transport. If you have a different view and view, let us put it before the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we will have a short break for two minutes to clean this Chamber and we will be coming back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the debate of the next two topical questions: Is it the third with number 641/1-4-2021 a timely question from the second cycle of the MEP of the Elijah Movement, Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on "Will the government remove the sections of Elijah?" and the tenth under number 642-4-2021 topical question by the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mrs Dionysios - Charalambou Kalamatianos to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Direct risk of disappearance, once again, of the Elias Prefecture from the map of higher education". Both of these questions, because they deal with the same subject, will be discussed together, without, of course, reducing both the rights of the honourable Member and the Minister who will reply. Both will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Evangelos (Angelos) Syrigos. Mr. Katrin, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, this is my third question - second question with you - for the university departments of Elias, and that is because we now have the decision - unprecedented for us - of the University of Patras to amputate Elia academically. It abolishes the Department of Museology that - as you know, we have discussed it before - is the only one in the country next to the historic site of Ancient Olympia, while a year and a half has done almost nothing to support it. At the same time it also carries the Department of Agriculture, which had no subject at all, but had also not been supported by the deanry, in Mesolonghi. All of this for a county which is the top of a rural specialty based on EUROSTAT. You, too, were well aware of the universal reaction of the bodies of Elias Prefecture and of the region's society, because unfortunately, if the recommendations - decisions of the University of Patras - are successful, Elias is at risk of being one of the few, perhaps the only county she will not have a place on the academic map. The University of Patras certainly has a contradictory attitude. On the one hand, it suggests the abolition of the Department of Music and on the other hand, with a later decision, it suggests that you have a certain number of importers and the Museology, which proposes that Geonia should be abolished as well. In fact, there is also a publication of the newspaper "Kathimerini" on April 6, which invokes high-ranking officials from the Ministry of Education, who stated that this year the number of university departments in the computerised journal may be slightly smaller than last year, referring to the decision of the University of Patras. So all the reform is about the University of Patras and the departments of Elias! The dean of the University of Patras, of course, on the stay of this publication, states that the final decision will be made by the Ministry of Education. I've got the relevant post here. And because there is a direct ministerial decision that will define the computer of this year's pan-Hellenics, while the way in which you have advanced the evaluation remains, if you have made it all over the country or only at the University of Patras and if you have established new criteria, I would like to ask you directly: First, will the two branches based in Elias remain in the computer, which you will announce in the next few days? Will you proceed to a substantial evaluation of them, taking into account the proposal you have in mind for the establishment of an autonomous School of Culture in Elias and Ancient Olympia? Secondly, will you bring to the House a debate on any change planned on the academic map or will you make case-by-case approaches, in other words, in some regions you evaluate and in others you leave it as it is? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u46	Thank you. Mr. Kalamatianos, SYRIZA's MP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, unfortunately the bad news about Elias is continuous and parallel. After the cancellation of the construction of the Patras-Pyrgos motorway, after the cancellation of the plans for the railroad, after the problems of the great, which we have with the service of our hospitals, the proposal of the Concert of the University of Patras, which proposes completely incomprehensible and unfounded, the transfer of the university departments that operate in Elia and essentially Elia's mutilation from the map of higher education, came to Elias. The Senate did this without having to enter into substantial dialogue, without taking into account the essential proposals made by the actors of Elijah who proposed to strengthen the departments and there were also detailed proposals, such as the operation of the School of Culture in Elias. Minister, you know that the loss of university departments from Elias will actually lead to academic, scientific, research, social and economic degradation and isolation. It leads her essentially to underdevelopment. You know that the government has the final responsibility for the map of higher education in the country and it also has the decision. You know that with the minimum import base you will drive thousands of students outside public universities in the coming years. You know that this decision will substantially affect the regional sections, such as Elijah. You know that for the academic year 2021-2022 the university proposed the rapid reduction of admissions of students to the departments of Elias by about 60%. So I ask you, and along with my question, all the people of Elijah are struggling and concerned, whether you will accept the proposal of the university, which disappears Elias from the map of higher education, whether you will retain the university departments of Elijah in computers without making this rapid reduction to the invaders and whether you will care for the practical support and reinforcement of the departments to have the role and gravity they deserve.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Kalamatiano. Minister, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware of the problem that has arisen in Elias. To be recorded in the minutes, I would remind you that the Senate of the University of Patras on 22 March decided for fifty-five votes in favour, three 'white' votes and three 'white' votes to accept the introduction of strategic planning, which provides, among other things, for the mergement of the Department of Music with a Department of History - Archaeology to be created in Patras and for the merger and transfer of the Department of Geoponia to the Prefecture of Aitolokarnania. The recommendation of the University of Patras has now been sent to ETHAE. A first question is what the criteria are, on the basis of which this decision came out. And here we have the n. 4485/2017, which, among other things, has two criteria when it says when they are founded, merged, deposited, renamed and abolished and their seat says that when they are imposed by the disproportionately large or small annual number of students or graduates per member of the board of directors and when the operation of individual HEI is not only justified scientifically, but on the contrary makes research and teaching difficult in the respective cognitive fields. So from what I read in the Committee on Strategic Planning's recommendation, this is the point on which the University of Patras is based and is coming and tabling these proposals. Since it is before the national authority, I cannot take a stand, because if I take a stand, I am abolishing the role of the national authority. The Ministry of Education can only take place after seeing the National Authority's suggestion. Therefore, any other comment I make on this matter cannot be made. I will only make one comment on what Mr Katrinis said about the Department of Music. I said this next time, Mr Katrin, and I say it again: A Department of Music, which in most European countries does not even exist as a undergraduate department and is a postgraduate or internal direction in another department that makes archaeology, for example, and with a huge number of people who are involved, I think we should go out and say directly to our fellow citizens in Elias that someone has ridiculed them all these years who have made such sections, which have no impact on the labour market. It is essential to realize that. Last point is that I am open to your proposals - we have contacted on several occasions - to see what we can do, on the basis of serious proposals, on the future of university departments in the Elias Prefecture. I have already referred to the case of Ancient Olympia and what can be done in connection with Ancient Olympia. I am open, the Ministry is open to proposals of serious concern.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Katrin, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u51	Minister, in fact, in the few years that I have been at the National Representation, I have never been able to come to a member of the Government and on a specific matter that relates to his authority to answer "I have no place and I do not want to be publicly posted". First, with your own position, you clearly took a position. We've had this dialogue in here before. You insist that a Department of Music is inappropriate. Next time I gave you a full list of which foreign universities are a undergraduate department and you insist that it is a department, which is only at a postgraduate level. So you're taking a position on the matter and you're actually telling us that you don't need it. But be careful. There are specific questions here, Mr Minister, to which you will not avoid responding. First, a ministerial decision is to publish the pan-Hellenic examinations computer in the next few days. Will this computer include the sections based in Elias, as they are today and as suggested by the University of Patras with the decision he sent you? With a reduced number in myselves, he's suggesting that he be included for this year. That is the first question. Secondly, when will the evaluation be completed by the National Higher Education Authority, so that we can also know what the conclusion of the national authority is, which will be considered before you take the final decision? Because we agree that the final decision is yours, it is the government, it is the state that will either accept the recommendations of the Senate and the National Higher Education Authority. Thirdly, you did not tell us whether the National Higher Education Authority will recommend you to all parts of the country or just to the University of Patras and the departments of Elias. And that is what we want a clear position. Is there an evaluation procedure at the moment at all university institutions, to see if uniform criteria are applied, or are you starting with case study by the willing University of Patras and the departments of Elias? That is a clear question and we need to know the answer. The last question is: When this suggestion comes - which you have not specified in time when it will be, whether it will be before or after the computer, whether it will be about all universities, whether it will be about any universities, whether it will assess all the departments, or whether it will assess some parts - and all these findings, are you prepared in an open and democratic process to bring them to the House, to discuss with the Parliamentary Representatives of Elias, but also with the self-governing bodies, who have proposed specific things to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u52	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u53	I shall conclude, Mr President. That's the last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u54	You've taken four minutes ago and four now, eight, instead of five.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u55	You made no mention - and I was really surprised at that, I expected you to make a reference - to the proposal to set up a cultural school in Elia and Ancient Olympia and I saw that you went past it without any mention of this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u56	Yes, sir. Mr Kalamatianos has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, Elias is a place that has unparalleled advantages and features. In Elia, Olympia is located. It's the place of the Olympic Games. It is a place that has enormous cultural heritage with global resonance. It is a place where one of the most irrigated, most productive and largest campus in the country is located. I think you also agree that Elijah with these features deserves to have viable and developed university departments and schools, which, of course, relate to the cultural dimension of the country, to agriculture and rural areas, to sport. That is how it is exploited and benefited not only Elijah, but the whole country. The government of SYRIZA, implementing this aim, established for the first time three university departments, Museology, Geology and Department of Physical Education and Sport Sciences. Your government has speeded up without any proposal from the university - and you said earlier that you will accept the proposal from the national authority, but you must not hide behind this proposal either from the university or from the national authority, the final decision is yours, Minister and from your government - take care that your Government without a proposal to suspend the operation of the TECA at the place where the Olympic Games were born. There you violated the proposals of the university, because the University of Patras in June 2019 proposed in favour of the operation of the TEFA. You, however, rushed to suspend its operation, instead of taking care of and doing everything in order for the Gymnastic Academy finally to function at the place where the Olympic Games were born. After decades the mistake has been corrected and you suspended the operation, without - and I say again - take into account any proposal from the university, which the university's proposal was to operate the TEFA in Olympia and Elia. So you cannot say 'what the university says, what the national authority says.' You've already broken that once. I would also remind you that the University of Patras had initially proposed negatively for the Law of Gavroglou. The government, however, at the time of SYRIZA overlooked this proposal, because it thought Elias deserved to have university departments and not only to have, but to function properly, prosper and develop, because they are linked to the comparative characteristics of the place. It is, therefore, a political decision, Minister, that is a clear decision of your Government and, I repeat, that you must not hide behind any proposal from the university, behind any proposal from the national authority, because you and your government have the final decision and responsibility. You referred to Law 4485/2017. But I would remind you, Minister, that the sections of Elias were established by law, Law No.4610. What are you telling us? Are you going to abolish sections created by law, by a presidential decree? This is suggested by Law 4485/2017, which is earlier law. Is that what you're gonna do? Won't you come to the National Representation to discuss the matter, raise all the issues, listen to the agencies and make proposals and forget all this? You didn't answer, too, as to whether it's going to be in the computer. This is an immediate, current decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u58	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u59	In the next few weeks, it will be compiled. And if the sections are included in the computer, will it be with huge, rapid reduction of the importers? Are you driving them to slow death? That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u60	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. My colleague, Mr Kalamatianos, in his dentistry, pointed out exactly the problem that exists with NGO, and which we do not understand, apparently, in this Chamber. What's the problem? The problem is that when you come and put forward a proposal to build a new section, this proposal must necessarily be assessed, see if it has any impact. Will the kids who enter the university get a job tomorrow morning, or are you going to do the unemployed armies? Are there any infrastructure to do it? If they don't exist, how long do they want to fix? In this case, despite the fact that there was a law, Mr Kalamatiane, which your government had voted for, your government chose to cancel it in practice by setting up sections without any assessment. You referred to the TECHA Department. In order to be able to operate this department, the study programme from the NEAFC needs to be evaluated. Has a proposal been submitted to evaluate the study programme of the TECA? Oh, no. So, what are we talking about the TECHA? I come to the point of the role of the National Higher Education Authority. Mr Katrin, when I was a student, we were talking about the classic distinction of powers, about executive, legislative and judicial powers. In recent years, this new trend has emerged for independent authorities, which are not related to executive power, but are being proposed. If I say today that we will do the "alpha" or the "beam", I effectively cancel the existence of the National Higher Education Authority. Obviously you'd like, very much, to go out and say that I'm canceling it. However, my institutional role requires me to tell you that I will expect to hear, see what it says and respect its decision and judge on the basis of that decision. Now, as to how we judge in these cases, we still do not judge according to what we are doing, but on the basis of the existing laws. And here we say that in order to be able to change everything you say, to have mergers and others, or to remain parts contrary to the university's opinion, there must always be the consent of the university. Therefore, whatever happens, the university's assent will always be needed, unless we follow the old SYRIZA method that we ignore the laws and say “we change with a new law and we pass the “alpha” or “bet””. Now, you referred to the establishment of a School of Culture. So far there has been no proposal to set up an autonomous School of Culture in Elia. I don't know if there's gonna be any, but so far there's no. Also, you asked whether the NSAF assesses all of the NSAs in the country. He constantly evaluates them the same way. A few days ago, he evaluated my own university, Panteio. It is a process in which the government's political leadership does not intervene. There are certain rules. They have created a full body of rules that must be fulfilled and evaluated on the basis of this body. On this basis, therefore, the proposal of the University of Patras will be evaluated. On the subject now of the Department of Music, we have said so next time and I insist on what I am telling you. I would like to see how many Museology Departments exist, for example, in Spain or Italy. Italy is a country which has too many antiquities as well as us. How many Museology Departments are there in Italy on a undergraduate level? Let's see it that way, so we can figure out what we're talking about. In some cases there are postgraduate directions, but I haven't seen any independent Department of Music. I'm expecting to see the SAD report and I wish I could be disproved. But because I've looked into it enough, I couldn't find it until now. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] And I come to the last point. I told you before that it is crucial for the Ministry of Education to sit down and discuss seriously not on the basis of our "l want" as I would like to have a section with five hundred or a thousand people in the Prefecture of Elias, but on the basis of the possibilities and needs of the county. This is something I expect and my door is constantly open to serious proposals. As far as Ancient Olympia is concerned, I told you next time that I thought it was the strong card of the Ilias Prefecture and I believe one of the two strong papers of the entire Peloponnese. Let's see how we use it properly. Just saying "we don't like each other, we don't like the other" is nothing creative. I also expect my door open, which I really mean, in every serious proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u63	Will it be in the computer?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u64	I'm waiting for the next few days to make the decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u65	We continue with the eighth under the number 656/5-2021 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece.Giannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Professional rights of graduates of AEI and TEI Library". And it will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education, Evangelos (Angelos) Syrigos. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. The issue we are bringing today, Minister, is indicative and revealing of the anti-government political character of the government over time in the specific area we are talking about. As it has been known for years in higher education, the Architecture and Library Departments, previously known as TEI, now only as university schools. The oldest of these university schools is the Department of Architecture, Library and Musicology of the Ionian University. It has been founded since 1993. And of course, corresponding departments also operate at the University of Western Attica, as well as at the International University of Greece based in Thessaloniki as a transformation of the TEI of Thessaloniki. The hundreds, then, graduates of all these departments either of the former TEIs or of the university schools are facing very serious problems of professional absorption and rehabilitation, although they could - and of course should - all these graduates on the basis of their studies, either work in the services of the General Archives of the State, as well as other archives of universities, banks, courts, ministries of various public bodies in the country, the National Library, for example, in the House Library, in university, in municipal libraries, in the libraries, in ministries, research centres, museums, hospitals, which we have tabled a written question a few days ago, of banks and other bodies, in publishing houses, in digitalisation works of libraries, or to work in documentation and information services, as they can do as well as duties that can be carried out and performed by the documentary, as provided for in 1986. Unfortunately, this is not the case, Minister, and the evidence, which was presented by the regional section of the Association of Greek Librarys of Northern Greece, in a complaint in this regard to the European Commission, is also revealing. So we ask you, Minister: What design of your Government to cover empty organic positions and to recruit with a permanent employment relationship, librarians, archivists in the libraries of the country, the National Library, the local general archives of the state, by eliminating the phenomenon of secondments of officials of other specialties? What is the design of your Government, or if it is your intention to change the archaic organization now from the State's General Archives from the far 1991 that continues to provide for the Archbishops' industry to be placed and be able to transfer philosophical graduates, legal for whom it is sufficient to have a simple three-year archive pre-service? And, finally, is it in the government's intention to include both the graduates of the Departments of Architecture and Library, in the posts announced for the recruitment of administrative officials to public and wider public sector bodies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u67	Minister, you have the floor for the prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. colleague, the project of the National Library of Greece, which provides for a total of three hundred ninety positions in various categories, of which sixty-four are expected to be graduates of Library Departments, Architecture and Information Science, and more specifically eighty-nine Library and Archaeologists and seventy-five Library Divisions. The approval of the Agency is expected within 2021. The top priority of the National Library is its full function of all the prescribed specialities but primarily of the Librarys sector, which account for 42% of the total positions of the National Library. That's the first point. The second point is that the Ministerial Council on 16-7-2020 approved the launch of 10 archivists' seats in GIS, four librarians' seats in the National Library, eight librarians' seats and six AE librarians' seats in the public librarians and the process of their promotion has begun. In addition, 13 people with librarian specialties were transferred from the mobility sector to corresponding units, libraries, GIS, etc. Finally, by the 30-9-2020 Act of the Ministerial Council, the immediate completion of five relevant organic positions at the National Library of Greece was approved. Last point in my protology. You referred to Article 22 of Law 1946/1991 in which the possibility of graduates from the Faculty of Philosophy or a legal section of the School, if they have three years' experience, was exceptionally given to them to be able to work. This has been repealed since 2019 by Article 201 of Law 4610/2019. So this article doesn't apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u70	Listening to the Minister's answer, I would like to make a few comments on the planned recruitments based on the draft new regulation of the National Library of Greece. We note that the same quota continues in relation to the recruitment of the necessary librarians in the National Library in particular. They represent only 42% of the total recruitments in the National Library of Greece. They're not the only needs. There's no need for librarians just the National Library of Greece. As for the other recruitments, I retained some numbers. Ten in some library, eight here, six there. They are only small drops in the ocean of deficiencies, Minister. Of course you have also confirmed that this inappropriate - let me still be allowed - to use libraries for the use of extracts and transfers with people who have little to do with the subject of a modern operation of the library. Minister, in the General Archives of the State on the basis of Law 4610, which you mentioned just now, out of five hundred and sixty organic positions provided for by this law, which was passed by SYRIZA, only eighty-five were allocated to the Library sector. It's a percentage of about 30% -33%. The remaining three hundred seventy-seven were allocated among non-scientific subjects. In the forty-six public libraries, operating in our country, with hundreds of ten employees employed, only forty of them hold a libraries degree. If we are not talking about the thousands of eight hundred school libraries in secondary education, for which a number of years ago a great deal of money was spent, it does not work in any of them nor a appointed librarian scientist. It also matters, as you can see, to be able to understand - and I think anyone who understands - the role and importance of the school library for the operation of a school unit. While graduates in the sector are completely excluded from taking up other positions in the public sector, it is often the case, under existing legislation, that positions requiring libraries are taken by holders of other diplomas. The Technical Chamber of Greece, for example, can be designated as head of library engineers and not librarians. According to the Law on the position of the Director General of the National Library of Greece, any higher education degree is sufficient, without any need for any relevance to the cognitive object of libraries, while several provisions are largely applicable by the founding law of the General Archives of the State. There are, unfortunately, hundreds of secondments of educational skills each year. We don't have anything with people. It is simply necessary for every worker to work where he has to work. Finally, let us say that in 2002, Law 2986 was passed, Article 11 of which provided for the establishment of a hundred librarians, fifty university graduates and fifty other graduates of the TEI, in the school libraries of Greece. This provision, this article has never been applied, an article which even applied would be a drop in the ocean of needs. So this has not been implemented yet. We think that, in the end, and I close, Mr President, this derogatory behaviour of the state over time, against libraries and, in particular, with regard to school libraries, reveals its true intentions and hypocrisy, when often - congestedly - it speaks of the upgrading of education or development, the cultivation of philanthropy and it goes on to say. All this is the result of the general cuts in education and all social services. We defend the right of librarians to work, which they have studied, as we defend the right of any man to work, based on the skills he has acquired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u71	Thank you. Come on, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I will agree with you that the libraries in Greece do not have the place they deserve. And I say this primarily as a university teacher. From there on, when I see that with Law 3149/2003 - which captures the small number of places for librarians in the National Library of Greece, the small number - we go into three hundred ninety places, of which sixty-four are expected to be a special librarian - and we are talking about the National Library of Greece - I believe that we are starting to change slowly in this area. And when the National Library comes and asks for this number of sixty-four out of the tragedy ninety positions, I am sure - because a huge effort has been made in recent years to upgrade and acquire a real National Library accessible to the Greek people - that they have distributed the positions very carefully, taking into account the needs we will have. From there on, the graduates of the relevant fields of Library or Architecture are not confined to these posts alone. On the basis of the stewardship, which is a presidential decree of 2001, Presidential Decree 50, there is the possibility for Articles 4 and 13 of the graduates of the Departments of HEIs and Library to participate as candidates in notices for the fulfilment of posts of the Administrative and Financial Accounting Industry respectively, as those branches are not restricted to the diplomas and diplomas accepted for appointment qualifications to cover these posts. Finally, I would remind you that there is the possibility for various public sector bodies to provide their bodies, their organisations and other branches or specialties on the basis of their specific service needs. Therefore, there is the possibility for these people to be exploited. I believe that with what is being done at the National Library we are changing a page and I hope that we will enter a new chapter in general in the way we deal with libraries in Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, too, Minister. We'll take a minute's break for the room's cleanliness needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Next is the fifth under the number 627/29-3-2021 timely question by the first question of the Member of the Hercules of Mera25 Mr. Georgios Logiades to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Accessory for the integration of young farmers into the Youth Farm programme’. The State Secretary for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Ioannis Economou. Mr. Loyadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'll start with the big picture first. Do we want food adequacy and quality Greek food products? Do we want farmers to live with dignity and grow? Do we want to have a national strategy or become dependent on imports, as was the case after World War II, which basically expected the charity of the Americans, because there were no food? We see today, when there is a major crisis, the first thing we do is run to supermarkets. Border closure and logging in the logistics chain push trade to reduce its dependence on imports. But consumers are also in favour of local products. There is a requirement for a zero environmental footprint - carbon dioxide - so demand for local products. This also applies to tourism, our heavy industry, where foreign visitors pay great attention to this issue. But who are we talking about when the lambs are New Zealand, the potato is Egypt, the Chinese vines and the cheeses from the Netherlands or Germany? Mr Screkas, the Minister, said earlier that the issue of adequacy in the production of food products from the primary sector is a matter of national sovereignty. That's right. We now go to this programme, the Rural Development Programme. In order to call 'rural development' rather than 'drittle' or 'underdevelopment', we should see the following. You're talking about setting up young farmers. In Greek the term "young farmers" has nothing to do with the issue of age, which you say in the first objective "refresh through age". So are we talking about young farmers or young farmers? Let us make this clear, because I have three examples to mention as far as farmers of older age really are concerned: a seventy-seven-year-old Heraklion, the only alois grower in Greece, who came from Canada twelve years ago. Another, again, engineer, is the only one involved in the treatment of carob and another in southern Africa, who is involved in the rearing of ostrichs. No relationship with age! We now go to the preconditions you have set: When the average lot in Greece is about forty acres and the government is asking for access to the measure, for example, for oily olives, the seventy-five acres, for tables over forty-eight, then it is clear that it seeks not to include any young farmer, but only large investors. Secondly, 'trips'. Typical performance. It was in the previous programme of 2016, 8,000 euros. You increased it to 14,000, you adjusted it to 12,000. The EUR 8 000 should normally apply because of the pandemic, but also because of the decline in the primary sector in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u76	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. You've been in four minutes since two. You'll tell your dentist.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u77	Of course, I know. Another topic is the "trip" once again when it comes to banning a wife from being able to join the program. Let us make it clear here that this is a meaningless and unfair measure and that the issue of dignity and freedom is raised, as either the woman or the man in a family must be together and also autonomous. In my denture, the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u78	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. I think we will all agree, Mr President, that in trying to create a new model in terms of the development of the primary sector, facilitating the setting-up of young farmers is a basic move, a priority which must be given to all instruments and all instruments, which we have in our hands to serve. Not only will it contribute to demographic renewal, which is essential not only for the primary sector, but also for the life of rural areas and the Greek countryside as a whole, but also because it brings together features which we also need very much. In other words, the integration of innovation, new technologies, enthusiasm, growing care and methods that are consistent with modern emerging practices that have to add to production and competitiveness in the primary sector in our country. These are the basis for the results that you have correctly put in the preamble to your question as a reflection. In other words, increasing production, increasing exports, extending the sense of food security and food adequacy that our country needs. In order to facilitate the setting-up of young farmers in the Greek countryside, we take advantage of the experience gained in the past and, at the same time, we make our own intervention in the context of our political philosophy so as to make the measure more operational, to close the speculators of virtuality and to implement a measure that will substantially favour those who have decided to link their lives to the Greek countryside. I will tell you in my prototype three - four features, attributes of this new emblematic measure, and I will continue in answering the second. First of all, the entry premium, i.e. the aid we give young farmers, is more than doubled. While in all the previous programmes it was 15 000 to 16 000, we now give young producers, young farmers up to 40 years of age, as defined by the regulations, a grant of 35 000 and in mountainous and disadvantaged areas it can reach all 40,000 euros. This in itself represents not only a major change, a great reform, but also a necessary condition for real sustainable farms. Secondly, by increasing the level and the entry premium, we are increasing the requirements, because we want to address those who have actually decided to deal effectively and in depth with the agricultural profession and to link their lives to the countryside. First of all, we oblige them to remain in rural activity for four more years after the implementation of the operational plan in the first four years. Because it is not a young farmer, a young farmer, who really wants to deal with and stay in the countryside without having such a long-term commitment. Secondly, and very essentially, we put conditions and specifications on moleculosis, which will actually force the beginning of the design and implementation of the operational plan to be sustainable and competitive. For example, be certified to biological or various other things, which will add bonuses and molecules to this story. And thirdly, by listening to society, by listening to the new producers in terms of consultation, we have removed things that were restrictive, such as, for example, what was actually banning those who have not gone to the military to participate in the programme. It will now include the people who either make their military obligations or at some point during the programme will go to the military so that no young people in this great age range, in this wide range, who want to deal with the countryside, will be deprived of the possibility of funding from the programme. I will return to my dentext with regard to your objections and your other comments on the moulation and architecture of the programme. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Logiadis, you have the floor for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as far as the minimum standard yield you mentioned is concerned, we have to say that the 35 000-40,000 you said will not arrive, because the farmer, the farmer, needs 15,000 to buy the animals, needs stables, needs to raise the stables, because the law says that he needs to raise his animals in a long time and needs a chapter of about 100,000 euros to enable him to start this work. You know very well that in northern Greece there are no women to marry farmers and the land is deserting. So it wants to be characteristicly supported. Also, with regard to the ban on the spouse being included in the programme when the other spouse is engaged in agriculture, and that is what we think should be abolished. Because if the spouse does not appear in the main occupation of a farmer he has the right to be subject to the measure. If one of the two is a farmer, the law does not give him the right to join. The access of farmers and more than one young farmer to financial instruments is limited, in total contrast to the comfortable leverage of resources by large investment groups and foreign funds. Other conditions, which are meaningless and bureaucratic obstacles, are, as you said, a student - fortunately you changed it - the farms located in the wider region and also the farmer staying after three years in his area. This may create a problem, make a "snatcher" and then maybe go if that is the case. Also, with regard to the subject of seminars, to attend the ELGO seminars - "DIMITRA", I will say that farmers' training in the past was at the end of the programmes and not at the beginning. In other words, a programme that started in 2009 and became a young farmer in 2009 was notified of the seminars in 2014. This should normally have been done at an early stage. Another key issue is that the farmer and the farmer work three hundred and sixty-five days a year. If something happens to him, if he gets sick or breaks his hand, the security does not compensate him either, nor to hire someone else to replace him while he is away. Farmers and farmers shall not be allowed to recruit staff through the subsidised programmes of the OAED. In northern Greece there is always demand for people to work in the fields, where many thousands of unemployed Greeks and foreigners are registered and at the end of the day they go and work "black". We believe that all these things are written in hand, create problems and do not allow the Greek farmer to develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr. Loyadis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. As I said to you, Mr Loyades, the architecture of the programme was based on past experience, but also on distortions that we have observed and which we wanted to correct. Since we made the brave decision to increase very much, to more than double the entry premium, we were obliged to tighten up and the demands, to " touch" the program really to those who need it, who need it and who are aware of how to deal with and how their lives will evolve over the next seven years, eight years, as the program includes around. All the restrictions that have been introduced are designed to limit or, if possible, eliminate the virtuality which, in a significant percentage - I do not want to call it less or more - has been observed in previous years during the operation of this programme. In this context, the logic of removing the yield crops has been included, by counting on molecules and logic - we do not ban spouses, obviously and can spouses, under the standards laid down by the measure, participate in the programme - within the same house, to drop so high a number of subsidies from the time resources are not unlimited and, therefore, the basic philosophy - which, I imagine, you share - is to be able to join as many producers as possible. The consultation we have had was a consultation which was not pretextful. We did take into account specificities which made the logic of the measure and the programme inappropriate in certain regions of the country - I am talking about the islands and, in particular, the smaller islands or certain mountain and lessfavoured areas - which has led us to lower the entry thresholds of the standard output from those originally mentioned in the consultation. In any case, in response to the anxiety you have raised and you are right, that a new producer to build a modern agricultural farm must also have access to funding, to capital, to obtain the necessary agricultural equipment, which will help him to be effective and effective in his work, we have also made sure that something else is done for the first time. This programme of young farmers will coincide with the proclamation of a new cycle of improvement plans, where those who have already been approved as young farmers will receive privileged treatment. They will also have the right to submit to the new improvement plans - in October, we have identified their new tender - an application for access to financing, so that they can invest in the necessary equipment or building equipment that is necessary to complement an agricultural holding. This is a measure - the beneficiaries believe that they will be between ten and twelve thousand people - which, in fact, will help and serve what must be our central priority if we want to change the model of the primary sector and of agricultural production. What's that? To facilitate the first establishment of people in Greek rural areas and their involvement with the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u84	Thank you very much, Minister. It will now be discussed the tenth third with number 650/5-2021 topical question by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of "In a dead end, the dynamic export industry of mucosal production is at risk of extinction". And in this timely question will be answered by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Ioannis Economou. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Good week to everyone and everyone we're here. I should like to say, Mr Secretary-General, that, regardless of your person, I have to ask why this question is not answered by the Minister or by the State Secretary responsible, who has fisheries. I suspect that you have a good answer, because, you know, the musculoskeletal farmers and the musculoskeletal producers, in general, in the country feel they are forgotten by the Government of New Democracy. I hope your presence is not a underestimate of the answer. But if you give us an answer, we'll appreciate it very much. There have been eight months of SYRIZA's questions on this issue, which have not been answered, and that also concerns the previous political leadership. In fact, we are talking about a problem which is aroused by the musculoskeletal industry, since it is directly linked to the pandemic which creates serious losses throughout last year's production. Last year's production could not be sold, there was no demand and prices were too low. The figures we have are talking about 20% disposal and a reduction in value of at least 40%. But what are we talking about today? We are talking about a sector which is particularly dynamic and exportable, and which receives no subsidy from the European Union or from the Greek Government, it refers to two hundred and twelve units throughout Greece, about three hundred companies, where in the Thermaic Gulf it is 85% of Greek production. It's about sixty points in Kymina, twenty-five points in Chalastra, and sixty-five points in Makriyalo Pierias. 90% of this production is exported. So we are talking about a product that has a significant added value in the Greek economy. In view of the effects of Lockdown, the effects on the market, the fact that they do not receive any aid or subsidies, we have serious problems in this sector and so far have no government response. In fact, the industry is under an obligation to renew last year's crops, that is to say, to effectively clean up the new production, because it is now called into question and the production of 2021. So the producers are taking double costs, while the government is too late to give answers. Since no aid has been granted, because it is an important export sector, because it does not take any other aid or subsidies, that is to say, it is not in the agricultural and primary sector subsidy and aid system in general, the question first of all - and we will see your first answer - is: What will the government do to support the musculoskeletal and musculoskeletal industries in order to ensure the development and dynamic of the industry and its sustainability, but above all the sustainability of the producers' jobs and households? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u86	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Obviously, in the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, we also understand the unfavourable situation in which the agri-food sector has come, obviously also the mydo-growers and mydo-growers. Obviously, we realise that all branches have been affected because of COVID, when exports have fallen to levels that have fallen, when the focus is closed not only in Greece but throughout the world, it is obvious less or more that all branches need support and have this unfavourable financial impact from pandemic. As far as mydoctorals are concerned, I have to answer, Mr Famele, that the problem with the so far non-payment, as you claim, and the reality is, of the compensation, is due to the fact that it is not entirely the same as other aquaculture, which is applied to the other types of aquaculture. In order to respond directly to your question, the Government takes into account the technical report of the association of Greek mydocles and shellfish farmers in which, moreover, the different circumstances are confirmed and the EEAS has immediately undertaken to draw up a proposal to the Ministry and from the Ministry to the European Commission in which to see how and to enable their direct compensation. All shellfish farmers have received EUR 200,000 in 2019 as compensation, which is obviously not enough to cover all the damage. Obviously and it is not enough to cover the deadlock in which people find themselves in order to plan for the new season all functions that are necessary. Nevertheless, we will soon be ready with specific answers to tell them what money, through what measure of the ESDP with the correct documentation required in these cases by the EU regulations, will be compensated and they will also receive the support required, as other branches have also been given by the Greek Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Minister. Mr Famelos has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Secretary, I would also like a clarification if you could do so in your dentistry. You mentioned having received support from de minimis. I would ask you to say this a little more clearly in dentistry, because we do not have that information. If you want to testify, please. The assessment we have, Mr Secretary-General, Mr President, is that the government's position with regard to the musculoskeletal producers is disgraceful, because today we are almost eleven months after the problem has been recognised. Because this problem was recognised at the beginning of last summer. You do not answer the question of twenty-five Members of SYRIZA in July 2020. So, as the problem appeared, we asked you a question, and we put proposals to you. In fact, we have also put forward proposals concerning PDOs, which welcome mydology and mydological culture. You didn't answer that. These people rose up, because they did not have to live, and Mr Vorides, together with members of the New Democracy and MPs, met in the report with them and promised aid. And now you're coming to tell us that you're going to send it to the PSC for evaluation, too, from there in the European Union? But there's one more thing. I don't know if you've been informed. In November, Mr. Vorides met as Minister of State with the Muscle Producers and told them that in 15 days the money would be in the General Accounting Office of the State. The fifteen days of Mr. Voridis from 12 November are not 27 November, but are they likely next June and we see? Because the Minister's commitment was specific, unless you want to tell us that Mr. Vorides was a liar. I accept the Secretary-General's position, Mr President, if he tells us that he was a liar, Mr Vorides. To transfer it to the musculoskeletal producers, also to the New Democracy MPs who are going on these dates, if you are telling truth or lying to the people of production, the private market, the free economy, the one you have supported. And then you sent them, after Mr. Voridis' commitment, to make a report with a study of the EMCDDA, did you, did you, did you, do you have two months in your drawers, and did we have to ask you to tell us that you will send it to the EMCDDA and the EMCDDA to the European Union, to finally see if an export industry in the Greek economy is going to go bankrupt? Shall we put them in a row? No aid has been granted to this sector. The returnee is a returner and has gone to a very small percentage, hasn't caught them. These people are now cleaning up their production and they've already planted the seed to produce. In a month, they're taking out a new product. In some areas they may already have matured the products. They have not sold last year, they have not received any aid, Mr President, and they have made you a proposal, an aid of EUR 1,800 per acre. All you have to do today is tell us how much reinforcement per mydology acre you will give and I very much ask you to do it today. If you do, we'll welcome, I told you all over again. For we consider that there should be aid for a sector outside the Community. He has no other way of living the musculoproducer. We're talking about three hundred VAT, all exporters, almost 80%. Of course I would like to say something, Mr President, and I am very sorry. It's the state's responsibility to take over, and he's done it in several branches. We learn that some large businesses have taken almost 50% of the loans from the Greek banks. The Bank of Greece has said so. It is up to you to prove that the Greek producer of the primary sector, who export products and are famous throughout the world, will support him. We have made such an effort in the Thermaikos Gulf, we have taken the first PDO license there and we support the next one, which is stuck by your own responsibility now. So we want you to tell us today if you only have money for direct assignments or have specific support to a sector that offers the Greek market. Please commit today the amount to be allocated to the aid. It is 1,800 euros the acre, which has come with study to you. Please commit yourself, and not "We will send it to PSC, to send it to Europe." Because we're going to make an announcement that you're also mocking the musketeers. It's up to you to disprove me. Please very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr. Femmelle. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let's start with the first question. What I said is that shellfish farmers have been compensated for by de minimis, I did not say about muscular farmers. Clearly, shellfish farmers have been compensated for by de minimis EUR 200 000 for 2019, which they received in 2020. Part of the repayable advance has obviously gone to the mydocal farmers as well. Now, listen, Mr. Famele. The government has proved in practice whether it respects the problems, the trouble and the deadlocks in which all those involved in the primary sector have been found all the time in the past. Away from the excesses, over-simplifications or koruna the opposition, which often densely invokes, not only you, but also your colleagues from the Civilian Opposition Party. The numbers speak for themselves. But in order not to escape the outlines of today's question and the space to which you refer, half a billion has been allocated by the Greek Government for compensation and support due to COVID in the primary sector. Half a billion, to explain and know what it means and what we are talking about, is about 25% of the basic aid received every year by Greek producers on the basis of what they are entitled to. Half a billion! If it is to you that we are mocking, that we lie, that we degrade them and that we do not understand the unfavorable situation that has come, those who hear us and know what they judge. From there on, you know or should be aware that any aid granted with Community money must be properly documented on the basis of Union regulations, the loss of income, the result of being involved, and not in de minimis or other aid, so that we do not find ourselves in front of the unpleasant development of demanding the money back, making allocations and moving on to situations that, I think, no one wants them. There are therefore a number of crops and the demands which the government is examining, which are based on the information we take from the market, on the basis of the cooperation between the respective producer groups, and in such a way that there is no question of any kind being called into question, in order to have a substantial effect, it is right that decisions are taken, that the money corresponding to each one is made and given to the people. This has so far happened with a number of crops and products, other faster, others later. They always play a number of roles in delaying the payment of these allowances. But no one stays behind. Nobody stays on the sidelines. It is precisely because we have to do the right documentation, often such delays are observed. And I told you before that, in ongoing discussions with these people, on the basis of the technical report they have submitted to us, taking advantage of the possibilities of operating the PSC and the Community regulations, we will very soon be able to tell them at the outset that we will be on their side, as long as they are presumed to lose their income, and the amount with which they will be compensated. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, too, Minister. The fourth question with number 3550/26-1-2021 will be discussed, concerning the question of the cycle of petitions - questions, the Member of the Heraklion Movement, Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of 'Environmental Plans': are many, to be ignored...'. And it will be answered by the State Secretary, Mr. Ioannis Economou. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, before I go to the question, I would like to ask if you have any news about the rehabilitation of the wronged, who, while the beneficiary was mainly professional farmers for the aid due to COVID, were not at that time in the system. Let us know if you have any news, because the producers who were beneficiaries are constantly asking, apart from those who have been excluded for other reasons. The problem hasn't been restored yet. The question we have today, Mr President, is indeed January. We are discussing three months late, because the Ministry did not receive a written reply. And I want you, Minister, to come to the position of a farmer who has been waiting for two - three years since 2015 to present a 'Best Plan', they agreed to open the invitations in 2017-2018, after a continuous postponements of almost four years has been considered as successors, and today is characterised by the fact that, on the one hand, the great delay in the evaluation, but on the other hand, the reduction of resources for this programme, leads him to a dead end. There are now perceptible participants who are not in the framework of financing the amount left for the "Enhancement Plans" because the sums have been reduced to go to other areas, as you know very well, non-productive, not developmental, but necessary, areas such as aid, which are not the pillar of development. This producer, the farmer who has waited for a long time, who is successful and who is characterised as sceptics, is now seeing the process delayed again six months in order to answer it. I think, Minister, that, in the context of the general realization of the economy which we are all seeking, and of course, first of all, the government must make use of all possible financial resources - the Recovery Fund, the ESDP, the common agricultural policy - to relaunch the economy. So where is the issue today? One hundred and fifty million are needed, the ones that have already been removed from the government from this programme, to come back, in order to finance these programmes immediately, improvement plans in order to move forward. The injustice is double - and I have completed my first speech - for young farmers. Is it possible for their first establishment to have been approved, to have the improvement plan approved, and then to tell them that they did not make it, and that there is no money in the budget, but after they had removed the money to go to other sectors? Your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u94	The Minister has the floor. This is an interesting matter, Minister, which concerns us all, from rural areas and with interest, we will hear the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u95	Indeed, it is a very interesting issue, not only because the improvement plans are perhaps the most popular ESDP programme and undoubtedly one of the most effective ones, but because the ESDP has helped thousands of producers in our country to have access to capital for the purchase of agricultural equipment. The previous notice was a notice that resulted in many distortions. After many years of delay, a measure was announced. She stayed open for too long. Both the long waiting time and the long term duration of the measure have resulted in too much demand. Subsequently, huge delays were observed, which with regulations and decisions of the next government unlocked the measure, unblocked the measure, started the assessments and gradually and paid payments. What is going on in substance? It is not true that money has been deducted from the budget for this measure. The reality is that the budget has doubled. It was at the beginning of 314 million. He went to 600 million to cover as much of this demand as possible. Indeed, there were people who successfully met the evaluation procedure with regard to moleculosis, but who were involved in the classification, that is, they were not one of those who were premiums and had the highest scores in the ranking of the measure. These people were close to the four thousand. The first point I want to make relates to this particular part, and I think it is a question of openness to everyone and to the measures that have been taken and to the measures that are being taken. It shall not be understood as a measure without perpetrators, nor shall the term contingencies automatically mean that it will ultimately be accepted and financed. I understand that a number of these people, listening to some misunderstandings, some ideas, perhaps some odds, have gone to some cost. Obviously this shows that they are indeed determined to deal with the agricultural sector and we must recognise and take it into account. However, there was no clear state or government statement that the participants would be included in any measure. However, apart from what is at the outset and which I think it is right to say and clarify it, because all measures will have great demand and, in all measures, there will probably be those who cannot be covered, I told you beforehand that if we had the potential to introduce them - I will come back to that in my dentistry - there should be two hundred and thirteen million euros. This is the exact amount based on the analyses of the management of the ESDP and the data produced by the people who have declared, two hundred thirteen million euros, so that the rest of the people can join. That money doesn't exist. This money doesn't exist in the PAA, not because some money was given for coronary compensation. I think that no one doubted and no one had any objections, and that was necessary. There are no plans for this programme period, because the possibility of overcompensation has been exhausted, of overcompensation in respect of this measure. This is the architecture of the program. What remains of the Rural Development and Food Programme was about 150,000, 000 to 170,000, 000 euros which we also channel to important development programmes, such as the programme of agricultural advisers. I do not think there is anyone who objects that our farmers, Greek producers, need a free access to an extensive agricultural advisory system, which is missing for years from the Greek territory and the Greek countryside. They are also channelled to the innovation programme and to the small improvement plans of 30 to 40 million who are fully qualified in the area of irrigation. Therefore, three specific comments. Firstly, the word of complication does not mean that resources will definitely be found to join the eligible, the fully subsidised. When these possibilities exist, they are exhausted from the outset. Secondly, there has never been any public commitment by a state authority that it will be so. The programme is competitive. It's always on the basis of the ranking. Thirdly, there were no resources, beyond a great deal of overcompensation. It's almost double the amount. Of the 300 million went to 600. There were no additional resources to fit into - to say this - in this programme and other people, despite the fact that no one would have intended to exclude them, and most likely that people had already been put to some cost. I will return to my dentext on regulatory issues, but also on what comes from now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u97	On a point which the President of Parliament rightly described as of great interest, I think you did not give a proper answer. And what do I mean? It is not the formality of the case if the Government has made a commitment to incorporating the perpetrators. It is the need that exists today to relaunch the economy. A government thinking otherwise would take this opportunity, which, with ready-to-date studies, has been evaluated, to provide funding to move the economy and, indeed, to a sector of agricultural production that can bring Greece forward. It is a different concept from the one you have answered, Minister. And I think it is irreversible to talk to the perpetrators by saying: Yes, you are perpetrators, but you are not approved, but be careful. Go back to the scholars the new program, re-study, pay again, evaluate - for the same investment - and then get approved. No, Minister. There are two issues. The first is the flexibility given to you by the European Union in order to transfer money from other sectors and even to strengthen the programme from national resources, or to overcompensate or continue with the new financial framework of the new CFP. There's all three of them. All three possibilities. You need to choose one of the three. Either you put about 150 million, which we estimate will be the final cost of these investments, or you will put overcompensation, covering or connecting it to the new funding that will come from the new CAP with a bridge financing, which may be available from national resources. It's all three. What's our difference? Now listen. All those who are involved, who have gone ahead with the preparation of investments and started the first markets, which are eligible if the programme continues - whether it is a machine market, whether it is technical equipment, work or anything that has been done - are eligible if there is funding to continue under this programme. While going to a new programme, they are not eligible, they are rejected and they turn the money in the sense that they will not join a programme, except that we have extra costs and additional waste of time. I would therefore say to your Government, which in the words that it has a priority to relaunch the economy, to support agricultural production, to support the people of hardship, to do so with one of the three proposals that we are tabling to you. A reference to the future - I beg your pardon - is not interesting. It's not at all of interest. And I will present to you in the Minutes the letter from the coordinator of the farmers, calling for the approval of the participants, their integration, their continuation and funding from the existing programme, so that these investments can be immediately completed and that they can be useful to both the national economy and farmers as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, I am starting with Mr Kegeroglu's objections and the doubts and reasonable questions of all these people, who are in this category of four thousand, who are nothing but analgesic to them. We are very understanding of them and, indeed, we have exhausted all possible energy that could be done to join them. However, as far as the regulatory framework is concerned, I will read you because there can be no institutional basis for this. I read to you - I will present it in the Minutes - from the criteria of eligibility and good operational practices of PAF 2014-2020: 'As is shown by the guidelines, namely Chapter 5.9.2.'. - is the passage I will present in the Minutes - "the integration of the participants in the improvement plan may only be possible if the resources available under the same programming period and the same notice." I told you earlier why they don't exist. Firstly, the programming period is over and within the same procedure we have already gone from 300 million to 600. Therefore, there is no additional resources. And I continue to say: '...who has submitted their investment proposals and until they are exhausted'. The resources have been exhausted. This possibility has been exploited by almost doubled funds, and that is why there is no way of finding more money, even if we wanted it. I am presenting for the Minutes a passage 5.9.2. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Ioannis Economou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] From there on, a series of actions that have a measure of financial support play their part in restarting the economy. In what we are discussing, as far as the Programme for Rural Development and Food is concerned, with regard to the support measures for the primary sector, I think that the programme of the 'Georgia Councils' and the programme of the 'New Farmers' and the programme of organic farming and the programme of afforestation and the programme of nitrates and the programme of agricultural education and the new 'Environmental projects' are programmes, which contribute to economic relaunching, which meet basic needs, which hit chronic structural weaknesses in the primary sector and which obviously play their decisive role in the change of model of agricultural production that we want to achieve. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, those who listen to us must know that the Greek Government's planning is to draw up a series of programmes and measures both in the transitional period and in the new programming period, as far as the "Improving Plans" are concerned. In October, there will be a new "Enhancement Plans" programme which will be able to apply for and those who have joined the "New Farmers" programme and obviously not all those who have been approved by the previous programmes. We will see what flexibility is there to deal with such distortions and weaknesses. A new program will be coming out a year and a half later, so that there is no longer such a long period of "Enhancement Plan" again and that we do not lead to a distorted operation, as we were led by the announcement of the program in 2017. We understand the need, the will, the enthusiasm, the economic need of the people who are implicated and who have entered into costs, have implemented part of the investment. We say very clearly that these funds are not there because they have been exhausted. Even if there were regulations, there would be a problem, as I have developed and submitted to you in the Minutes, so that there would be no doubt about it. There was also the corresponding correspondence of the Ministry's political leadership with the relevant members of the committee, where this was clarified. In conclusion, I would like to say - because I think we should be honest in this Chamber and because the good accounts make good friends and come a number of programmes - the concept of 'comforts' does not necessarily mean that it will also be eligible, because the limits for financing are absolutely specific. Programmes are designed to be as effective as possible and to be able to include as many as possible. However, there can never be a programme that is effective and includes everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, too, Minister. In view of the fact that the Minister of National Defence must go to the Committee on Equipment and, of course, having the understanding of the Deputy Minister, Mr Aygeakis, whom I thank, as well as Mr Amanatidis, who is waiting for an hour - I ask for your understanding - the Minister of National Defence Mr Panayotopoulos will be preceded by his obligations. So we will now propose and discuss the second question under number 638/1-4-2021 in the second cycle of SYRIZA MP II - the Progressive Alliance of Georgiou Tsipras to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Appropriate sale of the Greek Defence Systems Hypothesis plant". The question will be answered by the Minister of National Defence, Mr. Panagiotopoulos. Mr. Tsipras, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, the question was tabled, as you know, before the Prime Minister's announcements from Hymettos were made from the factory. I imagine you know that in terms of general visa policy, we are in favour of any initiative, which gives green space to the public, to the inhabitants of the region and others. Therefore, that is not our issue. Our issue here, as with a number of other initiatives taken at times by the Prime Minister without a prior study, is exactly what the government and the Ministry of National Defence have prepared, with regard to the Greek Defence Systems and possible relocation, closure, privatisation and so on. Questions in particular are two: First, is the constantly fuelled with new data scenarios for the sale of the Defence Systems to the Hypothet and the relocation to Lavrio? What is the Minister's position to extend the activities of the Hellenic Defence Systems and the company's growth, at a time when defence spending is generally being strengthened - otherwise, we will be the only country that strengthens defence spending and shrinks the defence industry - as well as the need to support armament programmes? And the second: What position does the Ministry express on the possibility of a possible relocation and the impact on the supply chain today on the Armed Forces? Is there an approved strategic plan for the company, which provides for or processs and substantiates the relocation of the Hymittos plant? So I am telling you - it is also written in the question - that there are objections on the part of the association that it is not possible to relocate the whole equipment. What about this? I would inform you - although I imagine you are aware - that the future is not known to the workers as a whole about these plans. And finally, all this depends on the future of the defence industry. I repeat once again from the Step of the House that the Prime Minister himself had announced the option for Rafale last September from Thessaloniki that it is the government's choice to strengthen the defence industry, and so far not only have we not seen the minimum step in this direction, but everything that has seen the light of publicity, including the issue of the U.S. Hymittos, is in the opposite direction, i.e. uncertainty and insecurity of what is going to happen for the defence industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u102	Good. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u103	I would also like to thank Mr Aygeakis and Mr Amanatidis, the next person to ask, for their tolerance. I'll try to be brief. Mr. Comrade, when the government received it, the NSAs were unable to pay wages from their cash reserves. In fact, this has been possible, but we have not received it without any problems, we have actually received it under a paralysis regime. Now something's going on. Secondly, you put two questions and I am clear in answering both of you. Firstly, sales scenarios are scripts, it is not a reality, there are no sales scenarios of NSAs at the moment or privatization and so on. And with regard to the negative impact on the Armed Forces' supply chain, neither is that there is for the simple reason that they will continue to operate, as a factor and, sooner or later, the NSAs will be able to attract further orders, to carry out other orders, to implement other orders, including to implement the large data from the NSA's "National Tyfélécom" equipment programme which we have announced. At the moment, if I'm not mistaken, the eight candidate companies, to go into cogeneration scheme in Greece of the "New National Typhy" are in a phase of evaluation by the general staff. In all likelihood, from next year we will have a finalisation of what will take place, of the company that will take over to co-production the "New National Print" obviously with NSAs. In this respect, therefore, the prospect - I would say - of the future of the NSAs is certainly deleted positively. Now, the concerns were evidently intensified after the Prime Minister's announcement of 3 April that the company's factory complex - formerly PYRKAL - will be relocated to the company's factory in Lavrio. It'll be relocated, it won't be closed. The aim is that, by 2026, nine ministries will be transferred to the premises of Hymettos, which are currently located in the center of Athens, while at the same time announcing a urban renewal plan for the development of the area to be liberated. You know, in the details, there is no objection to that. The point is, what about the NSAs? I would remind you that the removal of PYRKAL's plant from the Hymitos had already been planned for decades ago. This is why the general urban plan of the Municipality of Attica had been approved with this prediction that this plant would be removed. However, the relocation to the complex of Lavrio, such as the design, will have absolutely no impact on the supply chain of the Armed Forces, as well as on the programs that the company has contractually undertaken to implement and deliver to the Armed Forces for each phase of the relocation, when it begins to be implemented, will also have clear information from the administration of NSAs. I would prefer the company's administration to account on how this relocation of the company will develop despite the unauthorised trade unions. I'm guessing the company's gonna put this into its whole design. From there on, I talked about the imminent assignment of important for the future of the National Defence Industry and the Hellenic Armed Forces projects. In the meantime and until the major certainly and ambitious co-production programme is implemented with any foreign company selected by the new national rifle, the NSAs will shortly be entrusted with producing a quantity of Minimi plutonium and upgrading the Armed Forces' Browning Plugs. At the same time, the company also claims to be involved in other RM70 missile unit upgrade programs and their ammunition. A memorandum of cooperation has already been signed with the Pyrenees Directorate of the General Military Staff. This can be carried out directly at the company's premises in Mandra and Lavrio, as well as another ambitious programme, the participation of NSAs in the co-production of the large supply of the Spike NLOS missile system, which is currently being negotiated with the Israelis, and we believe that in 2021 it will begin to be implemented, as we bring it through and pass, as you know, by the relevant Committee on Military Programmes of the Parliament. We also negotiate with the NSAs their participation in a large number of Armed Forces supply contracts, such as armour ammunition at a hundred and twenty miles, long-range ammunition at a hundred and fifty-five miles, maintenance of a mobile anti-aircraft system arrow. Therefore, there are many plans for NSAs to undertake orders on behalf of the Armed Forces. In fact, these are projects that are visible in the near future. Therefore, there is no question of selling them. The plan is to extend and upgrade the company's activities and of course, as you can see, there will be absolutely no impact on the Armed Forces' supply chain. On the contrary, the future is full of new orders, all that I have said before you. And of course, with this data anything but gloomy is the future for NSAs, despite any problems. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr. Tsipras, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I think we will have the opportunity to be more detailed both myself and you around the future of the Hellenic Defence Systems as a whole in the current question, which has been tabled for the Greek Defence Systems as a whole. Indeed, it was tabled before the present, but it has not yet come to Parliament. However, this question is precisely about the enormous concern about the future of the Hellenic Defence Systems, due to the mismanagement, which exists from June until now. I remain and attach great importance to what you say, that there is no question of privatization or sale of the Greek Defence Systems, as well as to the determination, in which we agree, that the Hellenic Defence Systems have a very long future ahead of them if it is the intention of a government to use them. However, there is also the privatization of "strong through the engagement", i.e. not taking over programs that can be undertaken by the NSAs, so that they can be taken over by one private person, limited the object, the share that the NSAs can have and take over by another. Now, on the point you are referring to, that it is obviously not the union responsible to say exactly what timetable things will be going to be, it is because there is absolutely no information for the workers as a whole in the NSAs, and in particular about what is going to happen, which is something that the government and the administration are responsible for. If there was an update, there wouldn't be a problem. And I'm telling you, it's not just an ESA problem, it's also an EAA problem and a shipyard of what? The fact that for some years now there has been the phenomenon of workers being paid off by these companies and it has nothing to do with just employment is the least of the case, but it has to do with the fact that we have been out of skilled personnel, for which the Greek state has spent money, resources, otherwise it would not have been specific. Because when we talk about know-how and the ability of these plants, it is primarily the human factor and the knowledge it has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr. Tsipras. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u107	Very soon, I will say the following. I understand that there is increased concern because of the announced, ambitious real, but also very necessary - in my view - of a project from the Prime Minister's lips to make use of his property 'PYRKAL', which, in addition to giving the local society tens of acres of greenery, as was planned very long ago, will also save in the state over five years about EUR 1 billion from the difference, resulting from the rents that are currently paying for nine ministries, for their housing in scattered properties in the center of Athens, by relocating them to this area. As planned, the project is expected to be built over five years. But the discussion here is about NSAs. I think it has been shown to us that the Ministry of National Defence has plans for NSAs and is trying to implement them. I personally believe that the future for this kind of defence industry is as competitive as it is for them to attract orders, that is to say, to take jobs. That's where everything will depend. Of course, there is the main orderer, who is of course the Ministry of National Defence and the general staff. From there on, however, it would be hopeful that these elements of the defence industry will develop into extroverted competing companies that can stand on the international side. We believe that this will be possible if we attract co-production schemes with foreign houses that have proved - if you like - these qualifications. The "National Typhoon" and co-production, which the Ministry requires in the specifications set by a foreign house - because if you simply introduce the new typhoon, then it will not be, as you can see, a national product - it can only be done by co-production in Greece and that is why the NSAs have been chosen. I think that this ambitious programme, when it starts to be implemented, is one to two years from now, as we have said that we are in the process of evaluating the bids we have from foreign companies - it will also be the programme that will allow NSAs to take off their prospects. At present, however, there are orders which need to be implemented. They're going to happen to the NSAs. Our interest is therefore a given and very real one. Tomorrow, the Undersecretary, Mr Stefanis, will go to the premises of the Egyptian of the former EBO - the annex of the NSAs is today - to discuss these prospects either with the extra order for the Minimi or with the rest. And of course we will begin to discuss the issue of the 'National Typhic' next day. Of course the administration will have to present its plan. The plan is there. Of course we, too, are interested in having an administration active with a plan that has to communicate outwards. Of course the Members of the House, especially those involved in armaments, have the right to know what is going on, but given that at the moment the NSAs are developing a perspective, with the problems they have had from the past. And when I say past, I don't mean from the days of the previous government, but before. I think the way to overcome these problems is to ensure a stable labour flow through orders. And orders are several, as I mentioned. Therefore, this is the NSA plan. There's no selling scenario. There is a upgrade scenario to meet the supply conditions of the Armed Forces of the next day. This does not mean a negative, but rather a positive overall impact on the supply chain in the end, both for the benefit of the Armed Forces and the domestic defence industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, too, Minister. The first question will be debated under number 628/29-32021 of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Georgios Amanatidis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: 'Mastiga the manipulated struggles'. The Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport will answer Mr. Leuteris Augeakis. Mr. Amanatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'll start with the self-evident. What's that? That the problem of manipulated matches and illegal preconsent, when this happens, is afflicting healthy competition deadly. At the same time, of course, there is also a threat to the future of sport, culture, social, cultural and economic activity, because, every time such issues arise, healthy sport is also questioned. So this reduces his attractiveness. The government so far - we must admit - has shown boldness, has shown a strong political will to deal with this phenomenon by promoting institutional arrangements. In particular, it has so far brought to Parliament and ratified by Law 4639/2019 the Council of Europe Convention establishing a framework for cooperation and coordination at national and international level. Secondly, it set up the national platform of sports integrity, which is responsible both for collecting information against the manipulation of sports matches and for managing this information, in order to be taken in the light of the conclusions of the respective decisions. In conclusion, all of this is that the reports and complaints made are evaluated immediately. Because, Minister, we want a high-efficiency sport based on values, you ask: Will you take further initiatives to strengthen healthy sport? In the event of a affirmative response, what are these, what are the expected results and what impacts do you expect to have on the common goal that we have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Amanatidis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, my dear colleague, Mr Amanatidis, ladies and gentlemen, the sports reform that we have been implementing for twenty months, as you know well, brings renewal and transparency to the sporting structure. We gave voice and role to the entire sports family. We are now having an equitable dialogue with her and bringing together a real revolution in sport. Of course, a valuable part of our sport reform is the radical treatment of manipulated matches. There for the first time, my dear fellow Member, we have introduced an active mechanism for managing petitions and the way in which we coordinate all relevant bodies is a lead and an internationally recognised example of good practice. Indeed, the fact is that manipulation of the games is a challenge to the rule of law, because it is linked to fraud, organised crime and corruption. At the same time, it is a threat to the future of sport as a social, economic and cultural activity that is questioned every time doubts arise about its integrity and principles. Due to the size and extensions of the problem, it was evident that it was necessary to work together with sports bodies specialising in relevant issues. That's exactly what we found when we took over the sports portfolio. But let us see what has happened so far, dear colleague. To date, as far as the manipulation of racing is concerned, there was absolutely no control mechanism for any sport at all. The only mechanism that existed concerned football, which - from the result - was ineffective and completely weak. It was a mechanism that was unable to use elements and I stress that it was only football and no other sport. What did that mechanism foresee, really? It provided for the collection of references to a specific analysis company working with UEFA, the ‘SPORTRADAR’. These reports were sent to the OSH and from there to the Committee on Professional Sport. Then, because there was no such mechanism for collecting more data and for crossing, they ended up in the file. In recent years, all references to the whole of them ended up in the file. In other words, there was no mechanism for resolving the problem, but a mechanism for archiving and, indeed, quite time-consuming. Imagine that this mechanism was compiled reports of sports events two years ago and three years ago. I agree that these reports alone are not enough to haunt a accusation. It needs analysis, evaluation, investigation, to be exploited. The other way of course, of course, of criminal investigation, was with reference to the prosecutor and all the other, also time-consuming procedures provided for by the law, which, however, requires full and undeniable evidence to be applied. Our government, my dear colleague, has shown since the first months of its term of office the force to face this scourge drastically, but especially directly. We have worked intensively, Mr President, with Mr 4639/2019, whom you know well. We put the foundations of the class in chronological problems of Greek sport. The key part was the ratification of the Macolin Treaty, such an important and important tool that our country had signed since 2014 and which should have been ratified by Parliament immediately the next minute, unfortunately remained in the drawer unexplored and decommissioned for five whole years. In fact, we have been one of the first countries to ratify the Convention, only three within the European Union and a total of seven countries across Europe. And not only have we condemned it, Mr Colleague, but we have taken the lead and we are taking the lead in international developments. Generally speaking, from the seven European countries we are showing greater mobility, despite pandemic and residual function to a large extent public administration. And we didn't stop there. By Law 4726/2020 we officially established the National Platform of Sports Integrity, which comes from the Macolin Convention. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] For the role of PESTHLA, as we call it briefly, as well as for the next steps in this shattered initiative, let me speak in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Amanatidis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I listened with caution and I will focus on what you said, escaping from the reasoning I had about my dentistry. In fact, in order to evaluate the efforts of a government representative, such as you, one should see what he has found, what has gone ahead and what has resulted in this effort. So what I see is that the result is visible, so it is evaluable and the footprint is also visible from this effort. Both the Macolin Convention, which you said, and the national platform, were indeed efforts and initiatives, which were successful. And the reason I mentioned it was to try to seize what you think about the future following these initiatives. I agree with what you said that the issues were actually archived and were not concluded anywhere. I agree and it is clear that important steps have been taken and not in the form of a fireworks, which, when it goes off, is forgotten. Furthermore, the institutional framework that has been launched gives a sense of one, I would say, of seriousness in how we treat sport, healthy sport, and lay the foundations with strong roots. The manipulation of sports games, of course, has nothing to do with the "BUT" that one could think about. What has the Council of Europe done? He has created a typology of how to identify the problem and how to take action against the manipulation of the games. Of course, one theme of all of this is the 'TECH' on the issue of manipulation. I want you to allow me to give two examples of how I understand manipulation. Manipulation, for example, is when false evidence is corrupted or declared in relation to how and where a athlete will fight. I also appreciate that manipulation is the prospect of losing a team to indirectly choose the opponent with whom it will play next. So there are many distortions that this effort should continue to address, as has been done so far in a successful way. I would therefore like, Minister, in your dentistry, to mention the design you have, the holistic design that I believe is needed in this direction. I say this because I think of the young people for whom we need to shape a healthy environment and an attractive environment that can withstand time and give equal opportunities. After all, young people must go in the sense of a major effort and we must support them for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr. Amanatidis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u115	Colleague, we don't belong to the left wing for theorem. We are judged daily by the result, not by intention or desire. So there was no way for our government, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, to turn its back on the real problem, which you mentioned quite rightly. By exploiting the provisions of the Macolin Convention, we have created a comprehensive structure with clear responsibilities, role and clear objectives. The main thing is that, for the first time in the narrow core of the platform, the General Secretariat of Sports with the coordinator of the Secretary-General, Mr. Mavrotas, with institutionally competent bodies such as the National Transparency Authority with President Bini, the Greek Police represented by Mr. Papakostas, the head of the E-Colice, by the Sport Prosecutor Mr. Simizoglou and the Commission for the Supervision and Control of the Games, represented by Mr. Janatos. This is the narrow core, which will then develop cooperation and create working groups with the Olympic Committee, which we have already spoken about, the players' associations, the federations, which almost a week ago completed their election process, the universities, the betting companies, the legal bodies with which we are working, and other bodies to develop their various functions. This makes it possible to achieve a better but, above all, to coordinate more quickly all the actors involved. The complaints are handled and evaluated by a step by all four bodies, where each contributes according to his or her know-how and his or her responsibilities. And I'm talking about the athletic piece, the betting piece, the piece of the investigation, but also the piece of prosecution. The “PESTHLA” assesses information, which may be recommended by the competent authorities, so that bet limits are set by chance and are excluded from betting groups, organisers, sports, athletes, and even bet types. Not only are the legitimate betting companies benefiting from the operation of the national platform, but the state, all those who want a clean game, the athletes themselves, the fans themselves, and at the end, the values of sport themselves. As I mentioned at an online event on the Macolin Convention last Friday, the "PATHLA" came to stay. From the beginning of January, it has started processing data from raters, betting companies and betting companies. Already, my dear colleague, I am pleased to inform you that ETATHLA has its first "client" references and I am putting it in introductory form. By using the references of “SPORTRADAR” through UEFA and operating in exemplary cooperation with the experts, it took advantage of the information provided by the betting companies, upon access granted by the SEP with its valuable help. Through this in-depth cooperation, EPATHLA considered it acceptable to transmit it to the sporting prosecutor, the relevant federation and the EPA the first finding of an assessment of a suspected struggle for manipulation in order to have criminal, disciplinary and administrative implications at the same time by the relevant bodies. But it is worth keeping something as important. Within the month, the website of "PATHLA" will be ready. It will include the platform on which confidential reports of suspected struggles to be investigated and evaluated by operators will be entered. With this platform we are opening the'umbrella' of cooperation with every body responsible for combating the manipulation of racing, always safely, with methodicity and with careful processing of all elements. Furthermore, it should be stressed that manipulation of the games is not only linked to the “TECH”. It is also linked to any unfair practice, as you quite rightly said just before, and therefore also to a counterfeiting of the sport effect. More we'll tell you in the official presentation of the platform when the time comes. Obviously, however, and we do not just want the audit character of EPATHLA. We also want to give a social dimension, because manipulation of sport is above all a social issue. That is why we are already cultivating cooperation to create a campaign for the promotion of the 'ESPATHLA' mechanism and the promotion of messages of sports integrity and healthy competition throughout society.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u117	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you. Above all, we will emphasise the importance of prevention. We will work with the new administrations of the sports federations to fill all the gaps that our country is currently facing on this issue. We know that there are problems, but there is now the strong political will to create that framework that can effectively deal with this phenomenon, in an institutional way, rather than with communications manipulations or theories or intentions. Coping with the manipulation of sports games is a team sport. We all need to unite forces, to protect sport, to have a sport based on values and not corroborated by suspicious economic transactions, and I am sure we will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Minister. Next is the sixth question by Mr Nikolaos Igoumenidis, number 639/1-4-2021, on the subject of the second question by the Member of the SYRIZA MP, Mr. Nikolaos Igoumenidis, on "Energy of the Ministry of Health for the concession of the two buildings of the IKA Minas and Hersonissos for the strengthening of the Primary Health Care in Heraklion". The Deputy Minister for Health will answer Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, you are aware of the scientific community's position on the importance, the decisive role of primary health care in dealing with an epidemic or a pandemic. However, despite this position, in my opinion, your Government in our time, has not incorporated primary health care organised, structured and on the basis of a plan integrated in the treatment of the health crisis. On the contrary, yes. It was not few times, and the cases, which were virtually disfellowshipped by medical staff, the primary health care, since your government made sure that this staff were taken to hospitals. In any case, from the whole chapter on 'Strengthening primary health care', I would like to say a little bit about the question of infrastructure, which is about aid, and in two specific infrastructure, which is included in the question, two flagic cases, IKA's two buildings in Hersonissos and in the center of Heraklion, in Agios Minas. The subject is familiar with you. In November 2019, when I was back with this question, you replied: "In terms of the concession of the two buildings, the former IKA to Agios Minas and the Hersonissos, we are progressing rapidly towards the required procedures and we believe that in very short time - you also know that, the buildings are part of the Ministry of Labour - the procedures will have been completed". That is what you responded to, Minister, on 1 November 2019 and I will table it in the Minutes, so that we can remember the debate then. And quite rightly the first question is: Who are the fast rhythms for you? Secondly, are your government's departments aware of the state of IKA's building in Hersonissos today? Do the services of the Ministry of Labour, which is the owner of the Ministry of Health, which is to use the Ministry of Health, which will manage or implement any decisions? Because of extreme weather phenomena we have had serious disasters in the Municipality of Hersonissos, and unfortunately this building has not escaped either. There is a recent report on a local channel, KRITT TV, by journalist Karyotakis. I mention the names for the story, and I will also submit it to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u121	I shall conclude, Mr President. In fact, sludges flood the building, windows broken, incalculable damages, damages, in a building paid by Greek taxpayers to build, which is devastated, while next to - let me express and apologise for it - the structure of the Hersonissos Regional Medicine is housed, the vaccination centre, which collects population from all over Heraklion for vaccination and the TMY of Hersonissos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr. Igomenides. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Igoumenidis, the issue you are aware of, because you have nursed as commander of the 7th Health Region and proceeded to take action with your papers on the concession of these buildings. The next commander of the 7th Ministry of Foreign Affairs did the same as you when you left this post. In July 2016, she was the last mail from the then commander. From then until July 2019, when you handed over the country's governance, nothing happened. Indeed, we had answered in 2019 and I will tell you what further steps have been taken. But we must not forget that a pandemic has taken place and you must not accuse us of being oligopoly, because we have also taken concrete action through this pandemic. Let me refer to this. You know, first of all, that the property on St. Minas street 11 is the property of Efka and houses the services of the first local payroll branch of Heraklion. It is worth mentioning that the 7th Health Region in the middle of a pandemic collaborated with local authorities and immediately leased a property and converted the 5th Heraklion TOM, which was located at Heraklion Health Center for over a year. The network of services provided in the city of Heraklion was also significantly strengthened, strengthening the existing Heraklion Health Centre and the local hospitals of Alikarnassos with medical, nursing and other personnel. For example, there are twenty-three doctors, five open-air doctors and fifteen people in nursing and other staff, thus enabling further development of afternoon doctors of various specialties to serve citizens. This will extend the new thirty-seven to cover positions of primary health care personnel at the level of Crete, as well as the possibility of strengthening existing structures by means of the new notice, which is already on the air. So there is no flaw in the first place. It is confirmed by what I said that through a pandemic that, not only did we mobilise ourselves, but there was substantial concern and significant support for the health services provided in the city of Heraklion. Through the support to staff, as well as the planning of the supply of new equipment from the Ministry and the Business Program of Crete, Heraklion Health Centre and the local medical services Alikarnassos now provide complete services until 9 o'clock every day to meet the needs of our fellow citizens. It also operates a vaccination centre, where more than fifteen thousand vaccinations have been carried out through eight vaccination lines. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Also, on the basis of the long-term strategic planning of the 7th RCM administration, and in the context of - because there are developments at this time - public consultation on the development potential of the imminent removal of the international airport ‘N’. KAZANDZAKIS’, the 7th Health Region has submitted a specific proposal and focuses on the development of health structures and services in the Municipal Unit of Nea Alikarnassos, the Municipality of Heraklion, but also on the wider area of responsibility of the municipality. This proposal refers to the possibility of including health services as essential social equipment for the development of housing as a whole in the area of the existing airport. And I conclude, Mr President - thank you for your tolerance - regarding the property of the former IKA - the EBRD based on the Municipality of Hersonissos. The request of the 7th Health Region provided for housing health services. Currently, housing needs are covered through cooperation with the Municipality of Hersonissos and the concession of the use of the property for a reasonable period of time, of course, and lays the foundations for the implementation of a set of actions and the fulfilment of housing needs and other services. We are completing our cooperation with the co-legislative ministries so that we have a clear and comprehensive view of the potential for exploiting this property, with a view to meeting the needs of the citizens. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u125	Minister, I'm sorry, but you didn't answer. First, you referred to July 2016 in order to give the SYRIZA government responsibility for how it went. Go ahead. And we have in Parliament - I didn't even imagine that you would give this answer - in March of 2019 from the then Minister of Health Mr. Blonde on the same subject as how the cooperation of the Ministers for Labour and Health had begun the concession of the two buildings. This is in relation to 'nothing happened'. Let's go down. Secondly, you have responded to various issues. The question is one, clear: IKA's building in Hersonissos will be granted for use in the Ministry of Health, yes or no? IKA's building at St. Minas will be assigned for use, yes or no? Of course, I am very well aware of the reactions. When, in April 2015, the Minister for Health, Mr. Kourublis, is here, Mr. Kourublis, asked me about the question of whether the IKA of Agios Minas has access to HEME, at the same time - and I do not want to stand on conspiracy theories - on the table for the use of the building - you can see the journalism and the press of the period - the proposal was made that the IKA of Agios Minas would become a commercial center. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] If you visit the IKA of Hersonissos, Minister, at the doors has a haemorrhage room, a pediatric doctor, a cardiological doctor, an orthopedic doctor, a septic surgery, emergency services. That's what's on the doors. And this building has been flooded once you see the images. Your services and the S.O.S.O. who speaks have no idea. They're incompetent people, unacceptable consultants that expose you too! That is the point, Minister. For example, he himself as a doctor says "I am a volunteer roamer". Because, as I have said and used the inappropriate expression, you may be using a "hole" that is housed in the vaccination centre, the "TMY of Hersonissos" and the regional medical office. And next door, there's a building as far as the Hospital of Ierapetra that you let it flood. You are unacceptable to that! You said here that in a short period of time they will proceed. What's the short time at last? The people who listen to us want answers. At IKA Hersonissos' TOMY, the vaccination centre and the Regional Public Health Laboratory can also be housed - the professor of the microbiology at the University of Crete can tell you where the machinery and equipment of the laboratory are kept in the basement of medicine - the EKAV can be housed in the 50 meters from the building in a container. But that's not how it works. We don't go that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u127	I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you for your tolerance. The IKA of Agios Minas, in addition to the high flagrant value it has for the people of the city of Heraklion, could - and we planned this, which you call "nothing" - become a university-level health structure, trained by doctors in primary health care...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u128	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u129	I'll be done. ...until all health personnel. The world that listens to us, Minister, awaits answers. Will these buildings be given or not? From reports of people's ideas, which you have appointed to the administration of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we are full!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u130	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Igoumenides, you blamed us for flawing and I told you that from 2016 to 2019 there was nothing going on about your administration. There were, in fact, specific documents to the competent bodies in order to obtain these buildings. Of course, the time we will need will certainly be less than three years. But I told you that, in the midst of a pandemic - because from 2019 onwards, the pandemic period has been intervening - we have done things, we have strengthened the structures of this particular and logical nature, it is time-consuming to have our design changed. In the case of Hersonissos, I think it's not a matter. We agree. I told you that we are completing our design together with the Ministry responsible, so that we can see exactly how we can make use of this building. But I told you that both Saint Minas and you didn't make it. At the moment, they're housed there with the administrative services of the FBI. Also, there are other data. There has been a development of services as far as possible. However, I mentioned the design of the 7th Health Region in terms of the development potential of the region, where there is a concrete plan to exploit the facilities of the international airport ‘N’. KAZADZAKIS’. In any case, any building installation should meet specific criteria. And these criteria are the service of the citizens, if intervention can be made, and to what extent - you know that it is difficult for us to have building interventions in the building of Agios Minas - the savings of economic resources and others - we do not need to waste financial resources when we are able to plan and implement something better - and, of course, the possibility of developing operational and modern structures and services to meet the needs of the citizens of a wide area. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u132	We are now continuing, as the President informed me, in view of the specificity that Mr Igoumenidis had requested, with the second question under number 4388/19-2-2021 of the cycle of petitions by the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Strengthen the future of workers in the special employment programme of four thousand long-term unemployed in the public health sector'. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, there are constantly issues that arise with vaccinations as well. I'm putting one, not to answer, but to take it into consideration. Self-tests are done, but it is not predictable what is going to happen with the device and everything that those who do it will use, so that workers are already complaining about the lack of this welfare, because they may be put into danger. I'm putting it to you, not necessarily, to get an answer. If you have an answer, however, you will be happy to give it. The question concerns the four thousand long-term unemployed who, through the programme, the OAS, have placed themselves in the public health system and offer their services. For four years their contracts have been renewed in one way or another. The pandemic has come to highlight the great problem of subscribing the public health system. Recycling contractors anyway becomes wider. But with these contractors we have also achieved these results which are, indeed, very positive and show the need to strengthen the national health system further. Our view is that there should also be a way of finding the subsidiary and those who work in any form of contract for a long time, so they serve standing and constant needs, workers in medical, nursing services, paramedical, administrative specialities, subsidiary of all specialties, after assessing how to permanently join the health system. It's the job insecurity today. But they do not feel it because they feel the duty to operate within the public health system to deal with pandemic. We therefore want answers to the Ministry's intentions and actions, which he has done about what is going to happen with these people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u134	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u135	Mr President, Mr Kegeroglu, with regard to the rejection of self-tests, I will answer Mr Kurublés' question immediately afterwards and I will give a clear answer. As far as your question is concerned, I should like to tell you that the issue of the initial four thousand workers in the OAED specific employment programme, I know that, very well, because there was perhaps the first priority when we took over the country's governance in July 2019, and this programme was brought about by the great risk that the beneficiaries - benefiting from this programme could be found without work. And what did we do? We renewed this programme two consecutive times, first for 2020 and second for 2021, so that we also have time to see how we can make use of these workers, which the National Health System certainly needs. And I've answered in the past and in such questions, and we were clear what we're thinking about. And recently, last week, the benefit of this program had met with me at the Ptolemais Hospital that I had visited. I repeat that they form an integral part of the functioning of hospitals and the National Health System, and they are certainly such a number that the health system needs. They are equally, with subsidiary and permanent staff, serving the needs of the pandemic health system, and we owe this part of the staff to the National Health System to recognise this as well as to all the employees of the EHS, who support the battle that we are all fighting together to curb the pandemic. And I want to recognize one more thing as well. Their presence in the National Health System is beyond necessary and imperative in numerical terms, and is mainly necessary and imperative in terms of quality. Because these people have gained experience so long that they work in health structures and we need them. And what concerns us - because it is easy to ask for solutions - is how we can achieve the goal and keep them in the National Health System beyond the OAED programme in which they are currently employed. In this case we must see the forest and not the tree. Mr Kegeroglu, you know that too, and the Ministry that you have nursed, that fixed-term contracts, subsidiary contracts, OAEDs or any other form of contracts for all kinds of personnel serving with a work relationship in the National Health System, which are not permanent, are about twenty thousand. This is a large number, as is our needs and intention - we have said - to provide permanent solutions to the one and only directions of strengthening the National Health System. The choices we have are limited. On the one hand, we have procedures of the IASC, very specific, time-consuming, which do not ensure that all those working under a fixed-term contract will cover corresponding positions. On the other hand, there is no possibility of directly calling all these posts. So let me tell you that we are considering all the solutions available to us and we are looking for that procedure in which the proper conditions are created, which will enable contractors, who are currently serving in the National Health System to fill the gaps, the shortcomings of the National Health System. This scenario is already being implemented for medical staff, which through the three successive notices in 2020 for a total of four hundred and twenty-five posts, a significant percentage, has been covered by the existing ancillary staff. And of course there are other notices, both permanent medical staff and other staff, mainly through the AACC. Mr Kegeroglu, allow me once again - and I conclude, Mr President - to say that other opposition MPs have asked questions, common features of which are two, congratulate the health staff and ask the government for the permanentisation of those of them who are contracted. However, how, in particular, this permanentisation will take place, so that we can do so together - I do not think anyone will disagree in this Chamber that we need this staff - to strengthen the National Health System. For our part, I respond and want to be clear that we have the political will and we are working on concrete solutions, constantly moving towards further strengthening the National Health System. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, too. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, since you have expressed the government's will today to resolve the problem and to deal with any bureaucratic procedure or even the 'prohibition' - within introductory terms - of the Constitution, I believe that the next period must go ahead with the solutions which exist and are specific. The roads are two, or you are going to a wide-ranging notice based on the specialties, which are covered by people who are currently working in the health system, with the strong moleculosis, imposed by their long-term work on the health system and especially now, during the pandemic period, and it is the classic path that we have taken many times, earlier, to staff the JEPs, and recently, to staff "Help at Home" on the basis of existing contracts. This is the one way. But we must also say that these people are no longer being asked to meet permanent and permanent needs or temporary needs. This has been proved in practice, it has responded in practice. Their only four-year-old employment shows that the needs are not temporary, but cover permanent needs, when in fact the gaps in the organic positions of the health system, in general, are tens of thousands. They therefore cover these positions, the work that the permanent people would have done if the organic positions were covered, and here comes the solution from Europe. We often have problems with Europe, but many times we have solutions. The judgment of the European Court of Justice, C-760/18, recently delivered on 11-2-2021 in particular, which held contrary to what we thought until now that the conversion of fixed-term contracts into indefinite contracts is not prohibited, since the needs covered are stable and lasting. This decision of the European Court of Justice, which our country must comply with, must be dealt with in the next few days by the legal services of your Ministry and, of course, by the government as a whole. Because it is a question which, if it goes ahead, will facilitate the current will, as you have told us, of the Government to apply in a way that is perfectly legitimate, on the basis of a decision of the European Court of Justice to which we can comply and move on. So what I ask you to do, beyond having taken into account the decision of the Court of Justice to the President of the Parliament or to other ministries, is that the Ministry should consider the decision which I will present to you. I mentioned the numbers and you can find them. And to commit that you will also consider the possibility that you, even outside this judgment of the European Court of Justice, may proceed with a similar procedure to that of 'Help at Home'. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, we can still have a shorter process, because the evaluation of the National Health System and a pandemic has been done in the midst of a pandemic and has been shown to meet fixed and lasting needs. They are already people who offer their services to permanent staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u138	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, I have stressed since the beginning of my reply that we know this very well. We know the need for these people and not just those people, because there are gaps in the National Health System. We've really covered enough, but there's definitely more. And we recognise the contribution of these people to the battle that all workers give to the National Health System. Of course, and we also know the decision you are referring to and I have told you - and I say it again - that we are investigating all possible solutions in order to give a definitive solution to the issue of these people. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u140	The second question under number 636/31-3-2021 will be discussed in the first cycle of the SYRIZA MEP - the Progressive Alliance Mr Anna Vageias - Kylaedonis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Urgent need to be vaccinated, by priority, against COVID -19, the inhabitants of the earthquakes of the Larissa Prefecture". Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for being here. A month after the catastrophic 6,3 Richter earthquake in Larisa, which resulted in the loss of a man and serious damage to schools, infrastructure and many residences in the villages of Damasi, Platanulia and Tree Tyrnavos and Mesochori, Amuri, Amuri, Vlachoyanni, Sicily, Domeniko and Malagoula, many residents are still exposed to fear, uncertainty, adverse weather conditions and uncontrolled dispersion of the coronary. With almost nine hundred houses characterized as non-residential, hundreds of families, among them infants and elderly, up to a few days ago, they lived in tents, as the containers who had settled were far less than the recorded needs, so that all necessary protection measures against the pandemic virus have become difficult and the risk of exposure of residents to it is multiplier. From the very first moment on, both the inhabitants and the mayors of the Larissa Regional Unit have repeatedly called for the self-evident prevention measure to be taken to avoid the spread of the pandemic virus in the exceptional and unfortunately extremely appropriate conditions, namely the immediate vaccination of all the inhabitants of these regions, where compliance with the health measures is difficult to achieve. Unfortunately neither the warnings of all of us nor the agonizing cries of the earthquaked inhabitants have so far managed to activate the reflexes of the government, so that the number of cases is now on the upward path between the intact inhabitants of the earthquakes of Larissa Prefecture. So we ask you: do you agree that the inhabitants of these areas are exposed to the pandemic virus dispersion? Is it your intention to satisfy, even with a delay of one and a half months, the people of these regions for emergency and, above all, emergency vaccination against COVID -19? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u142	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Bajassa, let me begin by pointing out that as far as the vaccination of the population as a whole is concerned in the Larissa Regional Unity is concerned, this is progressing smoothly and at a rapid rate, as is the case in all the regions of the country. This rate - we have said - also depends on the availability of vaccines, which will be increased next time in our country and we will be able to incorporate larger population groups more quickly. So far we have been in a plan, which means that at the beginning of the summer we will have vaccinated a sufficient and critical percentage of the population, which will enable us to build the desired immunity walls. Indeed, Larissa has gone through a great trial. A catastrophic pandemic in a pandemic, with loss of human life, civilian injuries and significant material disasters, particularly with great mental damage for people, who have suffered the consequences of these disasters. The state, as it had to, stood by and stood and did it from the very first moment without delay. Allow me to say that in any case all the planned protection measures against the spread of the coronary are being complied with and much more so all the necessary measures to protect public health in general. The National Agency for Public Health has sent mobile teams to the area so that mass diagnostic tests can be carried out and there is a follow-up. In the period from 4 March to 9 April, a hundred thirteen actions had been organised in which more than two thousand eight hundred coronary detection checks had been carried out and forty positive cases had occurred. As regards the vaccination of the populations of the earthquakes, these continued to be in line with the programme and the priority set by the National Committee for Vaccines, where they are primarily among the categories and priorities set by the National Committee for Vaccines. Decision on universal immunisation of residents in these areas does not exist. I think that, since vaccination is progressing smoothly, protection measures are being observed, the relevant public bodies and services, which are presided over by the National Public Health Agency, are in the area, monitor the pandemic, carry out all necessary checks, there is no cause for concern, and the data so far do not show the need to vaccinate the entire population in the earthquaked areas. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u144	You're welcome, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u145	As far as I can see, Mr Secretary, you told us that there was nothing to do, namely that there was no need for these people to be vaccinated as a priority. You say that there is no reason, that everything is evolving very smoothly, that those who are vaccinated according to the overall plan, which applies to the whole country, are being vaccinated. But I have to tell you that today I contacted the President of the Local Community of Mesochori, Mr Yiannis Zarladianis, the President of Elassona, and said that yesterday a fellow citizen of ours was lost seventy-six years old from Mesochori from a coronary. Also, in the village of Vlachoyanni in this space, three people have died of coronary. Of course, in this village, in Vlachoyanni in Mesochori, they have not yet reached all the containers that people need. There are seven of the twenty - four - six who have asked I think, and so many residents are staying in houses of other forgivers. This means that there are too many people congested, more than one family in a house and too many are staying in homes unsuitable to enter their homes. Therefore, the conditions are not completely covered in health terms, as you claim. Also in the village of Damasi there are five to six cases of COVID right now. In this village, and the two hundred out of four hundred homes are inappropriate, the inhabitants are not inhabited. So I understand from what you said that they cannot be disposed of, that there are no vaccines and I ask: is that possible? The Prime Minister yesterday - I do not remember when it was, I think yesterday or yesterday - in an interview he gave a big newspaper called on the world to be vaccinated, as if the people who want to be vaccinated could and does not want to be vaccinated. Responsibility goes to the world again, people have the problem. Here, these people want to be vaccinated. Tell the Prime Minister that he should go for vaccination. Let's go there and give them the vaccines. They want these people to be vaccinated in the flooded areas. So don't tell us things. Should you follow the example of neighbouring Serbia? Should you also benefit from other vaccines, as do other countries in the European Union? You tell us that by summer a large part of the population will have been shielded. I wish we all want this to be done so that we can finally open up the economy in our country. But we cannot tell these people, who died yesterday by a fellow citizen who lives in tents, even in containers - that is not the best hygiene conditions, you know, it is obvious - to wait until summer. Unfortunately, Mr. Undersecretary, you have not responded. You must have answered these people. And I think I've been put on it as many times as I went there - and I went there several times after the earthquake - as a priority. Thank you. I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Contozamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Bajas, first of all, I would like to refer to your comment on the statement by the Prime Minister inviting all our fellow citizens to be vaccinated. Let me remind you that our country has ensured vaccines - doses of vaccines - for the whole population and I hope the entire population will be inoculated by the end of the operation's'FREEDOM' vaccination programme. The Prime Minister obviously referred to age groups in which vaccination has taken place since the start of the programme and which have not come to be vaccinated. There is a specific programming for both age groups, which are vaccinated as well as for vulnerable population groups and, more generally, for the rest of the population. The epidemiological picture in the region is not different from that of the rest of the regional section and the rest of Greece, especially with regard to the average picture we have, because there are variations from regions to areas for the development of the pandemic. Therefore, there are no alarming signs for the region, which will lead us to decide to take further action, which might be because of the earthquake if the population were to be vaccinated. In any case, I repeat that since the first day of the earthquake, the presence of the relevant institutions and the state in general is in the region, we are supervising, intervening. Vaccination is progressing, according to the programme, in the area as smoothly as possible. Controls are carried out and we take all necessary measures to ensure the health of our fellow citizens in this region. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u148	The twelfth will now be debated under number 649/5-2021, a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mrs Panagiotis Kourublis to the Minister for Health, on the subject: "Danger from the rejection of used self-tests for COVID -19". Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u149	Mr President, Minister, the current situation in the country shows that we are moving uncompromisingly towards the future. Product of this situation is the recurring, backwards, contradictory decisions, things that should have been done like opening up small and medium-sized enterprises, retailers or schools when the pandemic was in a mild state. Today, then, in your desperation, you are constantly making moves that create a misguided society, which does not know what to believe. One says that, the other says it. And they came into our lives and the great self-tests. Mr Minister, I ask you directly who has decided to change the content of the directives, which contained these self-tests in French. It is an extremely important issue, because you have changed the whole process. The French text of which you chose to use the product clearly says that the liquid, the sample should be taken if you like, from the rhino-pharmaceutical cavity and you changed the instructions. I don't know who made the decision. I will personally submit relevant documents and you will have to answer who took this decision and that feeling.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u151	My second point is that in the same text, the French text states that this product is biological and there should be care and care for how it will be destroyed. This is also an extremely crucial issue. You chose the doctrine of individual responsibility, i.e. you told the Greek people "cut your neck, take and implement it yourself".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u153	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I have to finish my thoughts. So, how's it going to be?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u154	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u155	Then don't let the MPs talk to the ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u156	Mr Colleague, the Rules of Procedure are specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u157	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u158	You've reached three and a half minutes instead of two.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u159	Three and a half minutes, I didn't go to seven! Wherever you want, you hold tolerance and wherever you want, you do other things.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u160	Listen, these are arguments that do not exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u161	All right, all right now! Please let me go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u162	I'm the one who's here to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u163	This is extremely important and let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u164	I judge that, you don't judge.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u165	Two minutes won't make the world go away.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u166	Leave that and finish your thoughts. You're welcome soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u167	Now, what thought of finishing after your intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u168	You're an expert, I'm not afraid of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u169	So I say, Minister, that this matter is of particular importance. Why? Because of the scientists, I have heard Mr Epadactyl - I do not think he is a person in opposition - saying that the effectiveness of this product is 50%. Imagine and if the procedures set by the company that produces it are not complied with, what the result will be so that too many people who are going to be unreasonable and therefore the contagion to reach where we are today and who no one knows where most we can go. And they are exceptional issues, therefore, that want great attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u170	Please, Mr. Colleague, you've reached five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u171	And I will close, Mr President, Minister, by saying that I am one of the people, who say that Greece must support production in that country. I read in the press that there is a Greek company, which is exported to Germany, France and in some way excluded from the procedure. But I'm not making a complaint. I'm asking you to look into it a little bit, 'cause it's unfair. At least allow them to take part in the tenders.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u172	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade. Just know that there is a Regulation, which has to work not in terms of time...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u173	I respect the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, but the Rules of Procedure do not provide for tolerance here or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u174	Tolerance for anyone, like your question, concerns the risk of rejection of used self-tests for COVID -19. I remind you of her just to...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u175	We know what's going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u176	Mr. Curublis, I'm sure you've been here for many years and you know. However, I am telling you that your question - if you want to be honest, and this is happening at the very end of the day - has nothing to do with the question, that is, the Member is coming to ask another question, and in the end he ends up asking another question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u177	Are you going to judge that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u178	Of course, under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u179	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u180	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kurublés, I think the self-tests thing is exhausted. Thank you for giving me again the opportunity to repeat some things that have to do with self-tests. First of all, I would like to say that the measure has already been embraced by our fellow citizens. By midday fourteen thousand seventeen thousand seventeen self-tests had been allocated to the beneficiaries in ten thousand seven pharmacies in the country. And we have said it from the very beginning that we announced this action, this initiative, that it is an additional action in terms of our strategy for controls, diagnostic tests for the coronary. Under no circumstances is this action coming to replace the actions under way. And we see other countries taking our own path, because we were perhaps the first country to use this measure so widely. We see other countries doing the same thing, for example the United Kingdom. And I don't think, therefore, that we've discovered the wheel. It is something that international literature provides for, that we have predicted and implemented in time, and it will help us very much. Let me just remind you that our aim is mainly to catch the coronary asymptomatics, who perhaps do not know that they are suffering from coronary diseases, so that we can safely open up activities that the country needs, as we are now opening up schools. One in three coronary bodies is asymptomatic and I have said that there are already many studies in international literature that demonstrate the need for these diagnostic checks. In no case do we transfer responsibility to the citizens. These tests have been approved for self-intake, self-diagnosis, and that's the difference with rapid coronary detection tests. In no case have we changed either the languages or the package leaflet. These products have been used professionally, can be used by health professionals and have been taken from the competent regulators of European countries this license that enables them to be classified as "self-diagnostics", as self-tests. It may harm them, even if their symptoms are the same as yours. This is also a condition for obtaining this licence, that is to say, that the package leaflet is legible to every citizen who is conducting this test alone. And of course it is a test that is either saliva or nasal intake rather than nasopharyngeal, as you said. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I believe that the next time we will be able to really have a broad use of these tests not only in schools, but also in other population groups, which we have already mentioned, so that we can safely return to normality. And I come to something last in relation to the rejection of these tests. First, did the pain catch us for rejection? We're always trying to find something for self-tests. At first there were the "photographic" notices - specifications of the competition to get a specific company. Then it bothered you that a public authority such as the General Secretariat for Civil Protection did the contest and now you have discovered the issue of rejection. Yes, there are questions about this issue, but the answer is given and clear, and there are instructions in the package leaflet how anyone should reject these tests. So the answer is very simple. This waste is managed as normal household waste. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, too. Minister, it would be nice to present these documents to the House as well. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u183	Minister, I tried to keep very low tones in the conversation, but you really didn't convince me. I shall therefore seek the French text, and then we shall discuss it, because, as you know, this biopathological company has been addressed to the prosecutor that what is stated in the French text has been breached. You tell me everything's right. I sincerely hope - and I hope you do not deny all of us here in Parliament - that the results will be positive for the country. But when you know very well that efficiency and reliability in the way we test will not be the ones we expect, it is natural that we will have many asymptomatic people, whether we talk about teachers or children, who will be in schools and without wanting to become "transponders" of this terrible story that we are all experiencing. Incidentally, Minister, I wanted to raise an issue concerning the detainees and the mobile disabled. I would therefore like you to look at this because there is no organised concern about their movement into vaccination centres. I also want you to tell me in your reply right now - of course also to prevent the President from being involved in my question, but it is an issue that 'hots' us all - how many people are imprisoned outside of the ICM. I want you to tell us, in order to have a picture, because we hear people inside the system, and who are not necessarily people, who serve political purposes, to state publicly that there is a very large number of tubed out of the ICM. Also, with regard to people, who need to intervene in the system, because they have problems threatening their health, such as issues relating to surgery that are very difficult - and waiting can create situations in the health of these people - you need to tell us what you are thinking about. Because there are people who can't go to the private sector. They don't have any money, what do we do? The last thing I want to raise and close is this. We all care. I don't question anyone's health care interest. If you do not have any ideas about this system, then we shall all go together - and I do not think there will be a Member who disagrees, it will perhaps be the law that will be passed by three hundred MPs - to find out how to permanently perpetuate people, who end their contracts or who are under contract. It is such that the humanitarian crisis in the country justifying any excesses, which Parliament could take on such a very serious case, and we can actually convince society as a political system that we can really serve it at such a difficult time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u184	Thank you. Minister, let me ask you a question. Would it not be very simple to submit the instructions for each preparation, if one or the other were to end this debate? People are listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u185	You're a doctor, Mr. President. You know. The instructions are on the Internet at first, but we should put them down. Let me repeat that we have not discovered the wheel. Mr Kurublés, I am opposed to what you have said beyond your question, because you have raised other issues in your dilemma which have nothing to do with the question. For whatever else the Ministry of Health is at your disposal, ask a question and we'll answer it. The question here is specific and I will answer specifically. If you want to answer the whole health system, ask a question about the whole health system.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u186	The question is specific, and you must answer it. You can't answer that. I do not demand it, but you must understand the advisability of the moment. Now, what are you gonna do...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u187	Mr. Comrade, the Minister will answer whatever he wants. Now, what do we do? That's right, unfortunately. And you, as Minister, replied what you wanted to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u188	Mr. Kurubli, would you like to come here and answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u189	Mr President, you do not recall him in class!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u190	Please, Mr. Kurubli.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, I would like to answer the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u192	I would never ask a Member to say to him: 'You write me this and I do not answer you to the others'. Never! Let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u193	Mr. Curublis, please, what can we do now? That's the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u194	That's the process. There's a rule. You asked a specific question to answer. Here we go. We're present at parliamentary control...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u195	We can't afford it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u196	Mr Kurublis, the MPs when you were Minister had the same chance as you, who are a Member of Parliament now. I don't understand you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u197	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u198	The Minister under the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u199	Do not address me, but the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u200	Leave what you know. You asked a question about the tests and you continued for another question to create impressions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u201	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u202	I'm not going to allow you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u203	He had to answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u204	Mr. Curublis, it's incredible what you're doing. These well-known shows are over. It's none of our business. There's no show.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u205	You're the ones who show.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u206	You've asked a question. You took nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u207	You express your personal sympathy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u208	Sit down. You'll hear it now. You asked a question. You got another five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u209	When people die...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u210	Mr Kurubli, I am not going to allow you to be more sensitive than me. Now for the others, I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u211	Doesn't anyone have the right to ask a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u212	Mr. Curublis, what is this thing you're doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u213	Leave what you know. You're a doctor. You should be the first.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u214	Please very much. You're a former Minister of Health. You've asked a question. We're trying to answer you. You're not letting them answer. Why are you doing this? Look at you now, I understand you want to have a show. We're not going to allow it. Please, let's get this over with. Two colleagues from SYRIZA, Mr Blonde and Mrs Auger are waiting for the Minister to answer their questions. We can't do twenty-five minutes with you. Please, Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. I repeat. I'll answer your question. For anything else, Mr Kurubli, the Ministry of Health is at your disposal and we are here to answer any questions you have asked. So I'm coming back to self-tests. Repeat: We haven't discovered the wheel. It is happening in almost all European and non-European countries. These self-diagnostic tests have approvals from competent regulatory authorities. Scientists have mentioned how to reject these tests. I'll say it a little bit more simply to throw a little tons. Probably in a tissue that we reject in household waste the viral load is far greater than in a self-test. Disposal procedures are provided for in the instructions for use of the product such as those are issued by the competent regulatory authorities. We're handling them as household waste. Thank you, Mr President, for your encouragement. I am not at the moment bizarre not only for the product package leaflet, which is circulating in Greece, but also to submit to the minutes what is in force in other European countries. There are also instructions from the Directorate-General for Waste Management of the Ministry for the Environment and Energy on the proper management of waste.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u216	Are these the same instructions in the French as in the Greek text? That is what I asked you and you did not answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u217	They're the same. Mr Kurublé, you are confused with the package leaflet. You saw a post for a French product that said it was for professional use. But the derogation has to do with their use as self-tests. You're messing with it. Clear it up in your mind, and if you want here, we're gonna answer again. There are clear directives, Mr President. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u218	We will now discuss the first question under number 4378/19-2-2021 of the circle of petitions - questions, the SYRIZA MP Rethymnon - Progressive Alliance Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Damage, inadequate preparation of the ESS, problems in the development of vaccinations and the need for a new'mixture' of health measures'. Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u219	Thank you very much. Minister, this question was tabled with many other SYRIZA colleagues about two months ago as a written question. He didn't answer. I thought it was necessary to testify at this stage. Many questions and topics, which were mentioned at the time, have lost track of them, without being dealt with of course. I think I will also focus on the issue of this juncture, which is the way to open up the economy, the market, society and the health conditions to do so safely. The big picture is known. I don't think anyone needs to describe it. The health tragedy is continuing. The health system especially in the Lecanopod is on prolonged blackout. The anguish of workers, patients and their relatives I think at this time, really, has taken dramatic proportions. Yesterday there were seven hundred eighteen tubes and over fifty piped out of intensity. That's called war medicine. To be informed. Now, at this juncture - basically at the top - I do not know whether we have actually reached the peak of the health stage of this third epidemiological wave - the government, by pressing down on the discomfort and discontent of society, which is now also recorded in polls, as 63% of citizens think that management is ineffective and problematic, by pressing on the generalised sense that we are in an inefficient five-month lockdown, which neither the virus intercepted, nor the health system supported the society nor control the pandemic has succeeded, makes the political option to gradually open activities. Because everyone understands that this has a huge risk, it invents the self-tests strategy to gold - let me the term - the pill. I have heard the Prime Minister say today that it is an additional tool. It cannot be an additional tool and at the same time be 'key' in opening schools and tomorrow, the day after other sectors. Also, the Prime Minister said that today’s picture is a success. In two hundred and fifty thousand tests, six hundred and thirteen positive cases were found. Positiveness rate 0.24%, i.e. substituting the rate of positiveity, which exists in asymptomatic entities.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u220	Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u221	I shall conclude, Mr President. The question is obviously not whether these people were well diagnosed and did not go to schools to catch others. The question is about the remaining two hundred and fifty thousand people, how many have taken a false negative result, as we know that these tests are of low sensitivity and the methodology is problematic when we do not take nasopharyngeal coating, but simply nasal coating and when we know that especially in asymptomatic agents - Mr Mosialos has said so - they have very low effectiveness.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u222	Please, Mr. Comrade. You're talking four and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u223	Thank you very much, Mr President. So the question is: does the government really think about modifying this strategy and going to a coordinate "opening" with extensive diagnostic checks, with molecular and rapid tests, which will be prescribed and carried out free of charge by public structures and by certified laboratories?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Look, time has gone in five minutes. I am not only talking about you, Mr Xanthi, but there is an attack by other colleagues on each other's time. We are all fellow Members. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Blonde has raised many issues in his question. In fact, Mr Xanthi, I am sorry for the introductory part of your question, because you continue to zero everything, even this great national effort. I have said that your enemy must be the COVID and not the government. We all have to see how we can manage this situation. You have a miserable, old cutting, outdated tactic that often moves to the limits of the undermining of this national effort. I have said this and I will say it again, thankfully, that the pandemic crisis has found the New Democracy government at the wheel of the country. We do not say so, it is the view of the majority of the citizens. You have recently seen the measurements, which show citizens' increased confidence in the National Health System. Even that bothers you. We have strengthened the public health system and you tell us that our ultimate goal is to privatise the system. I don't want to talk about the past, your governance and the emergency situations you have been called upon to manage, the results you have brought, but the pandemic...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u226	Let's set an example.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u227	Mandra and Matty.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u228	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u229	Mr. Xanthi, would you like me to tell you more? Mrs. Constantopoulos said what would have happened if it were the SYRIZA government and SYRIZA managed the pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u230	Please, ladies and gentlemen. I see a bit of an emergency today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u231	Did I? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u232	Look, Mr. Comrade. The Minister is responsible for what he says, as are you and each of us. Please, you'll answer later when you're given the floor. I cannot interfere with any Minister or Member outside the limits laid down in the Rules of Procedure. Please, Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President. I repeat that it is no coincidence that all the foreign countries have designated the management of the pandemic as a success to date in our country. Imagine what would happen today if we had not taken the measures we have taken. You are also accusing us of the measures we have taken! It is worth mentioning two points. Greece is also in line with the ECDC Charter - and I will present it in the Minutes - among the first countries of the European Union in terms of carrying out diagnostic checks on the coronary, 'deep green', and it is sixth to full vaccination coverage of the population leaving behind such countries as Italy, France and Spain. And it is not enough to stand well, but because pandemic is a dynamic requirement of constant vigilance, an assessment of the situation and additional measures. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Vassilis Kontozamanis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That is why I say that you have a different view and your attitude is unjustifiedly negative and you always stand negative on any action by the government. Our pandemic management strategy is based on the following three pillars: firstly, a strong and reliable health system, secondly, mass diagnostics, and thirdly, vaccinations. At least that's what I don't think you're arguing about. Let me refer in particular to the National Health System, how you delivered it to us in 2019 and how it is today in the middle of a pandemic. We have given priority to strengthening the health system to staff, with very targeted actions. Recruitment was made at such short notice of permanent staff and subsidiary, which had never been made at such a time in the past. We have proclaimed two thousand three hundred and fifty-four positions of U.S. doctors compared to the two thousand seven hundred fifty-four that your own governance had announced in four and a half years. For intensive treatment units four hundred ten permanent doctors are already serving in intensive care units. And the units that we have operated, we first made sure that we serve them with the necessary human resources and then cut ribbons. And I will repeat something about the Minutes, because I mentioned it the other day and mentioned it today, and I am sorry about that. In response to your own on January 21, 2019, when you were Minister of Health, you said that “the information available is available, we have the smallest number of intensified treatment beds in the last 15 years”. And now you're telling us about the number of tubes. Identify, at least, the great effort made in the intensive care units sector, the new beds opened and the new beds that we continue to open and...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u234	Minister, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u235	I'm sorry, Mr. President. It's an important question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u236	It's all important.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u237	I'll stop in a little while and continue in my dentistry. ...are these beds, which have enabled us to stand up. Aid to equipment and complete adequacy in personal protective equipment and medicinal material having ensured access not only to the vaccine but also to any medication available. To reiterate once again our country's involvement in the common European supply of monoclonal antibodies. I shall say a word, Mr President, about the self-tests that Mr Xanthos has started to say and I shall continue in my second language. We are not changing our strategy under any circumstances. The self-tests tool comes to complete the strategy, which we have with regard to diagnostic tests, which are clearly more than ever and every day increased. Mr President, I shall continue in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u238	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u239	Minister, you are politically insensitive, and you and the government. I don't like to talk like that, but that's the truth. At a time when society is experiencing a drama, you see that you have done everything well. I mean, mercy! Of course citizens trust the ESS. We knew that. Its support was a nuclear element of our programme, our values and our interventions in the previous period. You've been questioning it for years. You have not even voted for it here when it was legislation by PASOK No. 1397/1983. You did not have in your programme the strengthening of the public health system, but the opening up of the market and the private sector. And 66% of the citizens, Minister - the previous poll - believes that you did not support the health system. This is the sense of the citizens. And obviously we are dealing with a major global cross-border threat, but how each country is mobilising the available forces, structures, people, everything, it determines to a large extent the outcome of the battle. At the peak of the pressing juncture you have not done what we have been saying for so long, to involve both the private sector and the military hospitals. I said it the other day. Of the fifteen thousand beds that the private sector has in the country, only two hundred fifty have been officially available for CIVID hospitalization. Stop what you're saying now. Stop these comparisons. We cannot compare, Minister, things unparalleled. We cannot compare policies and interventions, which are carried out in another financial framework and, above all, outside the pandemic, with interventions when the country is experiencing a major health crisis. It's like comparing the bullets that the army consumes in a period of peace and in a period of war. Do you understand what I'm saying or don't understand? To end this mockery, I'll tell you this. You delivered in 2015 four hundred forty beds, a history of low country! And we in the Memorandum, in austerity and without pandemic, managed to add another hundred and twenty. They're here? No, of course not! It was at a divergence from Europe's average. But don't tell us that you've developed new IF beds...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u240	Let's go see them!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u241	Wait a minute, listen up. In addition to the two hundred fifty added by private donations, with the donation of the Greek Parliament, private institutions, etc., which are new facilities, infrastructure and equipment, the whole of the other is internal transformations, Minister, which will end. They have an expiry date. They won't remain as a deposit in the public health system. You have made us crazy lately: 'A thousand tracos, a thousand four hundred, a thousand five hundred'. That's how the intensive beds open? Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u242	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u243	I shall conclude, Mr President. We're having a lot of trouble. We, Minister, do not welcome the difficulty, nor do we invest in destruction and failure to have a small-party benefit. So don't make suggestions for seriousness and responsibility. The responsible political proposal has been put forward by Alexis Tsipras for a long time, which says that the Board of Heads under the President of the Republic should be convened to agree on a strategy of strengthening the ESS and, with society upright, saving lives. That's what we've said. You didn't accept it, because you're doing everything well and why you're taking it, and all you care about is communication. This is why self-tests have appeared as a fig sheet of a risk-taking choice. We've told you before. Strengthen the intervention by the health services of the country by means of extensive checks, targeted at where overtransmissions are, i.e. at the workplace.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u244	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. You've been talking for eight minutes already.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u245	I shall conclude, Mr President. One last word. Do you seriously believe that this story of self-examination and self-declaration of positive cases can stand in the private sector where the dividend will be at stake, the operation of the business, the operation of the shop? He can't move like this. Understand it and change strategy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u246	To finish the process earlier and go to the last question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u247	I will be brief, Mr President. Mr Vandemeulebroucke, in fact, I do not want to go into comparisons with situations managed by one or the other government, because they are not our benchmark. And, of course, we all recognise that pandemic is something special in size and consequences. But at least we should agree on some basic things. You mentioned what we're doing at the peak of this wave. Consider what you did at the peak of this wave. You invited people to gatherings. At the moment in the public sector, which has rightly taken over most of the management of the pandemic, there is now accumulated knowledge and experience. The private sector and the Armed Forces participate in this battle. And it makes sense for absolute control to have him with the public health system and the state, and wherever he needs to be able to intervene, so that we can achieve our goals. I repeat that self-tests are a complementary action so that we can safely open up. Because you also mentioned in your question a free test, I would remind you that the tests carried out in a public body are free of charge for the citizens and will continue to be free if necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u248	One third of the world pays it out of his pocket. An examination of public health pays her out of his pocket.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u249	We don't ban people from going to a public structure to do the test.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u250	They don't do cholesterol, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u251	I would like to say that the central message in the current juncture of the pandemic is more degrees of freedom, with increased self-control and faithful compliance with measures, so that we can overcome this difficult situation. That is the reality and this is the new policy mix that we are implementing and we believe it will be a success. The country needs a unity of all political forces and a strong and reliable, above all, deserveful opposition in order to deal with this pandemic. I repeat that your enemy must be the COVID and not the government. Once again, I have said so once again, that the Civic Opposition must finally demand, in order to use a word of topicality, the least accountability that the people demand from a Civic Opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u252	In any case, in order to be honest, what is provided even free of charge to the citizen is. No one's giving it for free. In order to be absolutely honest, we all know what is going on. I mean, obviously, what it is, we all pay it together. Nobody pays for it separately, not even free of charge. The bill will come sometime. The third question under number 4126/12-2-2021 will be discussed in the circle of petitions from Members of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theodoras (Group) Aegis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Intensive recognition of the heroic efforts of the missing health workers, the support of the state, the relatives of the national health system (NSS) who lost their lives in the battlefield against COVID -19." Please, Your Honor, you have the floor. I hope you guys stay in your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u253	Mr President, if you see that I am overtime, you can also get from the time of dentistry. In any case, I will probably not need him, because I see what climate the Deputy Minister for Health has suffered, and I think that is the answer I am going to take to the question. I am tempted, Minister, to supplement what former SYRIZA Minister for Health, Mr. Xanthos, said, does not possess political indifference, but immorality and disrespect, because you violate the truth, and you are truly disrespectful to the memory of these thousands of people, exceed the eight thousand anymore, and much more you do not respect the pain of their own people, who have lost their own people in beds and in the ITH, who have been in the public health system. If you want someone to visit the hospitals, do with their relatives, begging for an intensive treatment unit bed. Just three months ago, Minister, on 12 January 2021 we asked you a question which still remains unanswered by you today, and most of the questions we ask today. It has to do with the effort on the part of the state to recognise the health supply of the health who fell on duty, to fight against COVID -19. It concerns the State's support for the relatives of both permanent workers in the ESS and subsidiary or contractors who lost their lives in the battlefield against COVID. Throughout the health crisis, the staff of all specialties, who served in hospitals and health units, give the bravest battle in war conditions. He fights unequally by risking his health and life itself. According to the evidence we have managed to collect, these people must be about twenty-five, health workers of the ESS, who have lost their lives by giving this battle. They left the children behind, the wives, the parents. It is necessary for the state to intervene and actively support the families of those who are losing their lives. I would like to have your answer to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u254	Thank you. My colleague was brief and concise. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Aeger, the state's operation is governed by a series of provisions in thousands of laws with a depositary above and above all the Constitution. I believe - we all believe it in this Chamber - that whatever the government is, the state has continued and the legislator has made sure that it also has consistency with Greek and Greek towards every citizen. And where there are gaps or where new needs may arise, we are here as a state, without red, green or blue shades, to legislate for the benefit of citizens, defending the public interest, that is, the interests of every citizen. You raise an issue, which I dare say you could, without creating impressions and making a noise about this sensitive issue, see where there is a gap and come suggest some change in legislation. We are open to any legislative intervention that needs to be taken in the direction of improving this framework, and I tell you, without second thought, that we will implement it and consider it. I shall refer in particular to: There is a general legislative framework covering such cases. There is the general provision of Article 14 of Law 2266/1994, which provides for the possibility of appointment to the public or to the public sector of the special members of the family of civil servants or of the public sector who died in the performance of a service and for the performance of that service. This is, on the one hand, acknowledging the public's objective responsibility towards its employees, who at times risk their lives in order to meet their duties, on the other hand as State assistance to the family of those persons. The notion of worker in the public or in the public sector includes, on the basis of the nature and nature of their service, both civil servants and recruitees in relation to private employment, including those recruited under a fixed-term private-law contract to cover needs. Consequently, the various benefits and, in particular, the benefit of the possibility of appointment to the public are granted to the special members of the family, including the subsidiary and temporary staff to whom you have referred. I repeat, Mr President, that there is a legal framework. If any legislative intervention is needed to improve this, we are here without second thought to implement it. I do not think there are any disagreements on this issue, nor is it appropriate in our political culture to push for socially more sensitive. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u256	Mrs. Aegiris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u257	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. Is this news that you are giving, but, really, why did it have to take three months from the written question, which we submitted forty-six Members of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, to come here now after my own timely question to answer that? It's very interesting. Obviously, even the relatives of the twenty-fifths of health - it is not more than thirty - because if they knew it, there would be no need for reports from their relatives. For example, the wife of the 15th - fifth - sanitary - who fell, the nurse, the sanitary from Florina said that on the official state side they had no practical recognition of the heroic efforts of their relatives "goed", but there were not even condolences from the state, Minister. I do, however, hold on to the positive side that, even after three months and after reintroducing this timely question with the timely question, you politically commit yourself to doing what we show you, precisely for the minimum, that the state must give to these people who have "god" or possibly "go" because this wound, this war, is still open, Minister. I expect your own legislative initiatives, but also the condolences, as a first sample, to those families who have lost theirs. The main thing, however, we expect, Minister, to close this debate today, is an apologies to the relatives of the nine thousand people who have been lost. We're getting to that number! I see that you are following the footsteps of your Prime Minister, who made the unfortunate statement ten days ago that the government was doing so well and that if it were not for New Democracy we would still have eight thousand dead. You treat these people in a very cynical and immoral way, Minister, as numbers. You have no conscience about the drama that people live in, about exactly what they have to face as a social and economic treaty within their own families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u258	Ladies and gentlemen, a statement to this House. The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: "System of Internal Audit of the Public Sector, Adviser to Integrity in Public Administration and other provisions on Public Administration and Local Government". The Minister has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Auger, while you started it well, you ruined it in the end. You told us about the deaths. So you're saying we're happy about death? Haven't people died in other countries from pandemic? Only in Greece died and you think we're happy about that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u260	Not a single apology, not a single tear!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u261	You're making a big mistake, and I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u262	Now let's talk about the sanitary. Let's start with this, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u263	Oh, shall we start with that? Because you said some things that touch the limits of populism.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u264	That's all you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u265	As far as your question is concerned, therefore, I have told you that this issue has a number of aspects in relation to the coronary. That is why I told you that we are looking into this and, of course, if there is a proposal, we would like to hear from everyone here and vote together. But there are several issues, especially about this period and the pandemic and the coronary. And I told you that the legislator has made sure that there is an institutional framework and, if there is any possibility and concrete proposal to improve this and to resolve several issues - I repeat, there are several issues relating to the coronary and we need to resolve them if we want to legislate correctly - here we are, I wish, all of us together, to vote on it. And to repeat that there is no political controversy about who is more socially sensitive. We're talking about human lives, not numbers. And I repeat that I regret your last characterisation in terms of death. We are all aware that the aim of every organized state, the aim of the Greek Government, is to protect the lives of all citizens as far as possible and by every means to ensure that they return to normality as best possible safely and with adequate health system. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u266	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-12-S1-commons.u267	With the consent of this House at the time of 19:02 the sitting is closed for Wednesday 14 April 2021 at 9.00 on the subject of Parliament's work (a) parliamentary scrutiny, discussion of topical questions, discussion and decision on the request for waiver of immunity, in accordance with the special agenda distributed and (b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda to be distributed.
