ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "For the Protection of Labour - Establishment of an Independent Labour Inspectorate - Validation of Convention 190 of the International Labour Organisation to eliminate violence and harassment in the world of work - Clearing of Convention 187 of the International Labour Organisation on the Framework for Safety and Health at Work - Incorporation of Directive (EU) 2019/1158 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on the balance between professional and private life". We're starting where we stopped.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u3	Here you go, Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Have a nice day. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance will table a proposal for a roll-call vote at first, a series of articles and on the whole bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u5	We, Mr President, will be tabling a proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u6	It was said by your rapporteur yesterday, but it is also recorded today. You said you intended to table a proposal for a nominal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u7	And the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u8	And the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u9	And from the Change Movement, Mr President, a proposal for a roll-call vote will be tabled on a number of articles and on the whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u10	All right, Mr. Mulkiotis. And the Change Movement. Let's start with Mrs Iatridis, Member of the New Democracy, Mrs Chabika Iatridis. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are on the third day of the meeting, and what we have seen so far from the Qualified Opposition and from the other parties is a cresent to falsify the provisions of the bill and a constant distortion of reality. Furthermore, we see the obvious embarrassment of the parties in the Disarmament, the majority of which see themselves as the Left, to support the government's undeniably positive initiatives for workers and workers. I will try, as calm and calm as I can, to approach the provisions of the bill and the general political and social reality surrounding it. And I do this because I believe that the cries cannot have a place at a time when Greek citizens want to see their lives improved. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality is that this draft law by the Ministry of Labour is another implementation of the election commitments of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis. It is about the implementation of a modern framework of work, which responds to today's challenges and faces pathogens of previous years. One could say, in the past, that the Left - Central Left in Greece regards its labour issues as a privileged field and a key element for any political sovereignty. However, on the basis of the 2019 election result and the polls that have been followed, it has to be seen to date that the Greek people want to modernise the working framework, they realise that in many cases there is an abusive exercise of the right to strike and see, of course, that when the Left is a government uses completely different phrases and adopts policies that they are then denounced as opposition. On the basis of the above, the Government of New Democracy submitted a draft law which ensures the protection of workers, meets the modern conditions and contains provisions which are progressive, respects all workers and are in line with the labour legislation of the advanced European countries. The fact is that the government, too, disguises the needs of the Greek people, the state of the economy and the labour market, and shows by its boldness that the Left is only talking about working on terms of the past and with a view to serving the interests of its trade unions and the privileges accompanying it. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill contains important provisions for workers and workers. I would like to focus on the following. Greece is one of the pioneering countries that progresses in the settlement of the 190 Convention of the International Labour Organisation, which introduces the creation of a wall for the protection of the gender and the fight against violence and harassment in the working environment. The Government of New Democracy believes in the principles and values of respect for equality and the role of women in our society, with the arrangements introduced in the bill on work, broadens the existing protection that faces harassment as a form of discrimination and adds violence to the behaviors that are punished. Verbal and psychological violence is unacceptable and must be punished, as the collapse of the personal self-esteem of the individual through this process is extremely disastrous. Through the bill we mention as protected persons even jobseekers and volunteers, now covering all legal employment relationships. We are establishing the employer's obligation and, therefore, we can control him, prevent, stop and deal with incidents of violence or harassment, inform workers about the risks, measures, obligations and rights of them, to address public authorities to examine complaints and to hold light throughout the process. It is also worth noting that we now oblige companies employing more than twenty people to adopt a corporate policy to combat violence and harassment, strengthening the new culture that we are now seeking to achieve horizontally in all working environments, ensuring healthy working conditions and at the same time respect for everyone. This in itself ensures the smoother functioning and performance of workers who, when they feel safe, pay more and more, since they are committed exclusively to their objective. It is important that in the event of an incident of violence or harassment, the employer is now obliged to take action in the context of industrial relations, in order to stop it even by a complaint from a working relationship. If the employer fails to take measures or is insufficient, the worker or worker concerned may inform the employer and leave work for as long as necessary so that it can return substantially. Dismissal, as well as any discrimination in the treatment of the complainant or witness, is prohibited, and the sign of equality is strengthened in enterprises, which is also extended to policies to combat violence and harassment at work. Through this treaty that creates all workers, women and men, they feel safe, stronger and more shielded, and our society needs to feel that the rule of law is there preventive and not only therapeutic. We are creating an operating framework that strengthens the position of women who are mainly affected by their work environment, due to anachronistic perceptions and stereotypes that should have been eliminated yesterday and have no space in Greece in 2021. We are protagonists and I am proud as a woman, as a mother and as a representative of the Greek Parliament, who I am part of the chain that has established this change that so many people have dreamed of and, today, is finally being done. Ladies and gentlemen, our resignation, our government, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, all of us, are at a constant glance in the future. We are adopting and implementing the most modern and flexible policies implemented throughout Europe. We are next to the workers, we support the creation, innovation, safety and the balance of professional and personal life and, most importantly, in these two years, we honour our commitments to the citizens, as we have done with our previous bills, as we have done with this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Chabika. Mr. Tree Alexiadis now has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, the debate on this bill has been exhausted, the arguments on each other and on the other have been tabled and the debate has been exhausted. Of course, we will respect the parliamentary procedure, we will be here to the end, and we will give - and with the vote - the battle to the end, because we hope that this battle that has begun will end victoriously for us, victoriously for all those who are fighting against the labour barbarism brought by your bill. The arguments have all been heard and I have nothing more to add than to the full political adequacy of the SYRIZA officials, but also of other political areas, they have tabled. I would just like to dwell on some important points. I would like to thank the New Democracy for the unexpected gift he made to Anti-Population, for the inappropriate gift he made in the country's political history. Look what you did, now we can tell you in public. You mentioned, you stressed, highlight the dividing lines that exist between the progressive democratic party and your own political area. I will not talk about your political origins and about what has been sharply heard from your own political area. Because I heard from you about the praisers of Thatcher about what happened in the previous years in Greece and a number of issues, but I will not talk about them. Well done and thank you very much for reminding them. Because each citizen now understands that, on the one hand, there is the progressive party that is struggling for a particular course in the country and on the other, you are the ones who want to turn the country back in the darkest years. Of course, that's your ideological and political DNA. I have been fighting with your own party since the 1970s, and I have had no illusion of what you stand for. You did very well, therefore, for gathering the right-wings, the far right-wing, the fans of Thatcher and the extreme neoliberal politicians, because your executives here - not all, enough - came out to remind and argue in favour of this story. So you made the tragic political mistake! The New Democracy itself removed the argument, removed the alibi, removed any excuse from all those who from other political spaces have started and been identified with you. They have joined you against SYRIZA or to serve your political reasons. And for those of them who have the strong argument of the Minister, the Deputy Secretary-General, the Secretary-General or the executive in any body, there is no counter-protect there, is the argument very strong, but for all others? For there are in them and honest and politically thinking people. Now, they don't have an argument. The political gap is very clear. On the one hand, the democratic side and, on the other, the right and right-wing logic. I was very impressed by the fact that I am a long-standing fighter and I have been honoured by the workers with their vote in many trade union posts - I am a much more years of union than I am a parliamentarian, two years I am now shutting down a Member - your allergy, your disillusionment, your hatred towards the trade unions. And what you didn't say! Trade union aristocracy, trade union bureaucracy and a number of other extremes which, of course, justify the social classes and who you express. But I would like to ask, in a question of human honesty and with a friendly attitude, Thodor, Yannis, Apostolis, Vassilis, MPs, former trade unionists from the New Democracy, who together we gave them and I honor them for the trade union struggles - which, by their trade unions, became known to society and the citizens and were elected MPs and some of them conquered very well and ministerially - are identified by all this attack on the trade union movement and the trade unions? Under no circumstances will I say that everything in the syndicate is perfect. As a trade unionist, I have raised these issues. However, this and more to go into the golden logic, because there are problems in the trade unions, all trade unions are the same and they are attacked by the trade unions. Let's think, ladies and gentlemen, if anything similar to any trade unionist in politicians, by any politician in journalists? It's this golden logic, as I told you, everybody's the same and we're attacking everyone. I say this again, however, to these four special Members of the New Democracy who became MPs, in my humble view, because they started out of the trade union space and, from there, they were known, they must take their position if they match this attack, with this libel against the trade union movement. It's very clear what's scaring you. You're afraid of workers' struggles, you're afraid of social struggles. You did not, after all, participated in these struggles as a political area, with bright exceptions to people from your area of course involved. You're afraid of workers' struggles. I would remind you of recent struggles, such as the struggles of the workers in the Kavala Fertilizers who have shown their strength and determination in recent mobilizing outside the Ministry of Labour, and I hope that a solution will finally be found to their problems. You are appalled by the struggles of the contractual cleaners of the Ministry of Finance, who give the mobilizations almost every day outside the Ministry of Finance a serious struggle, trying to solve problems that have been solved by other sacked cleaners of the Ministry of Finance, and unfortunately they are under a terrible attack, and by specific media of mass information, but lately, unfortunately, by a particular judge, who has undertaken by the Greek Justice to judge their case. I am presenting all the articles in the Minutes to keep the gentleman in parliamentary history and to load the responsibility of what he has done, because I was present at the court and I saw his behaviour. To lay the blame, because, even before he goes to the Chair and examines the data in the case, he was making a decision and saying that these are unacceptable things, that you are destroying the country and making political trials by the gentleman at a time when they are inadmissible even to be heard. I submit to the Minutes the complete articles in order to expose the individual in a parliamentary capacity to avoid someone else copying them and to understand that the workers have voice and rights. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Treasurer Alexiades, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing.]] I should like to close, Mr President, by congratulating the New Democracy as a government, even for something else. I would like to say, as we tell Piraeus, the phrase, but I am bound by parliamentary practice and by the conscientiousness that exists. You "did" us to lies in the election period and in the first period of government for a perfect state, for an organization. What you were telling us is not described.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u14	Finish it, because today we don't have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u15	I shall conclude, Mr President, with one phrase. Friday night you tabled amendments by the Ministry of Finance to the labour bill, while another bill from the Ministry of Finance was tabled yesterday in the Commission. But how incapable of organising basic issues and making Parliament operate in an elementary process? You close two years, you close your political period, you are against workers' struggles. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u16	Today I ask everyone to keep the time. It is the day of Heads of State and I want all the list to be exhausted and all the colleagues to speak. A colleague from the New Democracy, Mr Spyridon Spiritual, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u17	Good morning, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to give me the right to start today on the issue of the strike and ask: is it ever possible to call such a strike on a day when our children are giving us pan-Hellenic tests? It is a group of children who have been tortured in the past eighteen months by the pandemic phenomenon.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u18	They don't strike. You don't know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u19	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u20	It's the stress these kids experienced yesterday. And my kid is participating in the exam today, and their anxiety about how to get to school was an additional stress with which there was no reason to charge these children. So there is such a huge inconvenience at such a critical moment. Is that how we ultimately invest in our country's future? Who's finally gonna apologize to these kids? But it is not the only extreme we have seen in the past days in the context of the mother of the fighting, as the opposition tells us. We have heard here all these days that this bill is a roller, rival and destructive. We are hearing about galleries, about dismantling working hours, about increasing unemployment. We hear many extremes, but no creative proposal. I wonder if we've really all read the same bill. Is there, then, anyone who disagrees with the framework for violence and sexual harassment within the workplace? Is there anyone who disagrees with the provisions on the protection of family life, paternity leave for fourteen days foreseen for the first time? Does anyone disagree with the fact that our country is one of the first to introduce the right to decouple from teleworking? And finally, who does not want to create a framework for the health and safety of workers in deliveries and couriers? That's all we've heard nothing about. We are hearing about the working hours and the arrangements that exist and are being implemented for years, that the eight hours are being abolished, and it has been stressed repeatedly that this is not the case. Again, I would like you to allow me here to make a little parentheses, which could happen in real life. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen of Antipopulation, a patient who is at the surgical table, and the surgeon suddenly stands up to leave because he filled out the eighth and is replaced by someone else who has never contacted the patient and who may, may and may not have the same specialty as the previous one. I think that this is a socially unacceptable act and our whole society does not accept it. What does that mean? It means that the work can't always be measured by the eight hours and that hours. Work can often have obligations that are governed by rules of responsibility, morality and ethics. It is precisely for the protection of working hours and workers that a large section of the bill is introduced. The digital working card, which is precisely the guarantee for the time, overtime and the right to disconnect, the working time arrangement, but also the avoidance of unfair competition between businesses. This is perhaps the most useful tool to control black and implied work. I do not think anyone will deny that there are employers who give fewer hours of overtime or pay them off. These practices and the blackmailing of workers must be stopped and we are finally getting an effective instrument. And again, why are there all these reactions? In the end, does all this fuss and the dormant concern the arrangements for unblocking the trade unionists, that is, the arrangements for electronic voting within workers' organizations, so that they no longer decide 10% of the workers for the remaining 90%? Just here, it is enough for anyone to remember in the 1980s when we held conventions that lasted for hours until the Chamber finally emptys, to remain a very small percentage of people who also made the final decision. Do we dream of this democracy? Or the incredible fact that with the present regime we see that trade unionists can have more benefits in the workplace than a pregnant woman? It's something that changes with today's bill. Provisions on the civil liability of trade unions are also introduced in cases of violence during the strike, as well as the abolition of unions - seals through electronic registers. All of this may be annoying by some, but it is not under the pretext of protecting workers from trying to maintain some of their misconceived achievements and interests, by empowering every effort to change. The professional trade unionist's model with the wooden rhetoric of the 1980s has now been overcome by society itself. Workers want to apply legality, protection against arbitrariness, full pay and better conditions and employment. They want the protection of their eighth hour, which not only will not be abolished, but will be implemented and controlled by the new digital working card. They want to have the opportunity to work a little more than four days to have an extra rest day or to do more overtime to fill their income legally and legally. They want to be able to regulate their working hours individually, in consultation with the employer, if they so wish, and with the protection of the law, without having to speak to a third party. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing.]] In conclusion, I would like to say that this bill never devalues healthy trade unionism, nor, of course, the guaranteed right to strike, which is guaranteed by the Constitution of our country. Rules are introduced that put an end to the immunity and suffering of the entire society and of the few. The union is denounced by past practices that must end. This reform must go forward not only because it brings the labour market to the conditions of today, balanced by the modern needs of workers and businesses, but also because it leaves behind ideas and absurd trade union privileges that ultimately harm the interest of society. I would therefore urge you all to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u21	And we, Mr. Spiritual. Mr. Christos Gokas will now take the floor from the Change Movement. They have left four, five colleagues since yesterday. I see one, Mr. Castanides has arrived in the Chamber. They'll be inoculated at the time of reading the list. This deal was made yesterday. Here, Mr Goka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that our country today, after the extreme economic crisis and the health crisis with the pandemic and its additional adverse effects on both the economy and the Greek society, now needs an integrated plan for productive and development reconstruction that supports production and the world of work, namely businesses, professionals and workers, which will bring investments in productive activities, but also offers decent incomes and working conditions for all. It will reduce the unemployment that has taken rise to social cohesion, with a modern social state, supporting social security at risk of collapse. However, the predictions are bleak, since, with the many problems of small and medium-sized enterprises, the risks of unemployment and other workers create a great deal of insecurity in many. On all sides, ladies and gentlemen, there are various estimates of the new reality created in the labour market by the development of technology, the digital transition, robotics and automation. Others see this reality as a risk, others as an alibi for changes, however, that overthrow in labour relations at the expense of workers behind vague and general theories of reform. We are saying that there really needs to be a new arrangement that corresponds to the new conditions in the workplace, but we are not talking about this today in this bill. We are discussing a one-sided rival at the core of the bill, which obviously considers that it serves growth without dialogue, without consultation with society, with the bodies for arrangements that support and ensure everyone's participation in a new development path, productive activities, businesses and workers, linking growth to new jobs. We, ladies and gentlemen, are talking about a new welfare regulation for the worker, about his safety, about his dignity and about using his skills in training and training. Indeed, the data are changing and the argument on the part of the majority of the New Democracy is that the changes, the developments justify overthrows in general and often ironically and cynically at the same time. You forget, however, that some things, some concepts and some values don't change, they don't have anything to do with the years. The rights, the working rights that we are discussing today, individual and collective security, the equal safeguarding of dignity at work and at the level of security, do not go beyond any decades. And what needs to be changed in dialogue. In this bill, anachronism is presented as innovative provisions, while in reality labour and social inequalities, uncertainty and insecurity of workers are favoured. You claim to be guaranteed and protected by the worker. Do you really think these arrangements are in favour of the worker? Is that a reform? Is that what the world of work expected in the conditions it is experiencing? Did you talk to workers and they told you that they were in agreement with all this? And what protection are we talking about when the collective bargaining replaces the individual arrangement of working time, when there is a reduction in the income of workers and when we have the liberation essentially of redundancies, when the Labour Inspectorate turns into a so-called independent authority, when it is abolished the eighth and you institutionalise the ten-hour employment for workers with an individual rather than a collective labour contract and without an increase in pay? The concepts of "excession" and "excession" seem not to concern you, but ladies and gentlemen, and in the difficult years of the economic crisis, political instability and strong pressures and demagogy, n. The PASOK Government made provision for the settlement of working time - which you did not vote on - but with the conclusion of a collective labour contract and that is the important and substantial difference. What, too, do you talk about when you remove the right to collective claim? This piece of legislation today leads to any issues that concern trade union activity at the other end. The Court ruled as follows: PASOK, President of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his report. The Minister claims that workers will be able to make constructive use of their free time and that the bill will offer decent conditions for them and their families. How? By extending the list of enterprises legally operating on Sundays, too? By facilitating redundancies, since the employer is relieved of the obligation to pay late payment, which is replaced by the payment of a small additional compensation, when all protection of the worker is destroyed, since the loss of a job in any case cannot be cured by the payment of this additional compensation? For our young people, things are even worse. Flexible hours, the reduction of already low income, the irregular working time disappoint young people, strengthen the choice to leave abroad, deprive the country of the best human resources, and this situation will obviously dramatically exacerbate the already acute demographic problem, since those who remain will not be able to create or complete a family. Any positive provisions we have mentioned, as our rapporteur, Mr Mulkiotis, has mentioned on all matters over the past few days in detail. However, the Digital Work Card, which you voted against in 2011 and could be a tool for controlling working time, is, in fact, an empty letter, since it is not provided for its immediate implementation. For any of your counterparts, Minister, and ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you have nothing but to read both the report by the Scientific Committee of Parliament and the positions that come from the field of justice and the lawyers who are clearly and absolutely documenting their criticism and disagreement on all the issues we are raising. One is the option: to withdraw these provisions. It is necessary not to abolish rights, not to give space and room for authoritarianism. We are not saying that everyone will function by authoritarian means, but you leave the margin for anyone who wants to operate in this way. In conclusion, we are committed, for our part, to a new social contract guaranteeing rights for all, in order to create for our young people the conditions which will justify their hopes for creation and a better future in their country. And this is our commitment today and tomorrow, when changing political correlations will give us that power and that possibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u23	In order not to be two colleagues from the same party, Mr Zebblelis will now take the floor, then Mr Kastanides, then Mrs Agathopoulos and Mrs Malama will then. Mr Zebplis Athanasios has the floor. Here, Mr. Zebble, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hatzidakis does not have the exclusive privilege of being a neoliberal by SYRIZA. Nearly all the previous ministers and all the governments had the same luck without any exception. It is characteristic that in December 2016 the SYRIZA party blamed even its own government, the government of Alexis Tsipras, for neoliberalism. In particular, the Party's Labour Policy Section called for mobilisations against neoliberal policies that level labour rights as its communication self-evident stated. He even called on the world to come down to the general strike against the policy of the government itself. So this afternoon in the Constitution the ministers protested against the measures they themselves had taken in their offices this morning. In this context of bipolarism they are calling today on citizens' mobilisations together with SYRIZA and against SYRIZA top executives who have previously legislated to set working time. Along with SYRIZA to abolish the Hatzidakis Law, against SYRIZA who literally applied Article 7 of the Katseli Law. This populism as an identifiable element is unique worldwide in political matters, as international media have already pointed out. We have been watching the same thing for three days now in Parliament from Anti-Policy. It is bound by the Step of the House by the relevant Head of State that it will abolish the settlement of the working time it had itself legislated. So these are the deadlocks, and these are the contradictions from which the Civic Opposition seeks to escape and face this draft law as the battlefield. Because behind the crocodile tears, behind the lies and half-truths, behind the misinformation operation, behind the attempt at mass protests, behind the agony to lead the front of the opposition, behind the attempt to find a account, the painful reality is that SYRIZA is isolated, isolated from both society and the production forces and the working forces. He is isolated because he is unable to discuss and propose solutions to the daily problems of working people, such as paternity leave, teleworking, harassment at work, and also to guarantee rights for workers, for children working under unfavourable conditions as courier and deliver. Moreover, the left fails to monitor developments and to move forward to modern employment issues at the time of the Fourth World Revolution. There is no doubt that changes at work level are tectonic, so that labour legislation on several points has been overcome by life itself. Recent research by the Institute of GFCM has shown that 52% of the workers work longer than their normal working hours and that 40% of these workers are not paid for their overtime. Is it because of this well-established employer arbitrariness experienced by thousands of workers, the Hatzidakis Law, which has not yet been voted on? Because this is the harsh reality that has been created in our country since the years of the memoranda and, from this point of view, with workers working in the secretly blackmailing and informally overtime, without remuneration and without rights. This problem seeks to address the digital card established by this draft law, impeding employers' abuse and undeclared work. The existing infringement procedure, which created unfair conditions of competition to the detriment of undertakings which complied with the laws and collective agreements, is thus terminated. In other words, the draft law which distinguishes healthy companies leading up to social and corporate responsibility, companies giving dividends and specific incentives to workers because they know that success lies not only in innovation and ideas, but mainly in human resources. It is no coincidence that such pilot operations have been successfully implemented in Greece and Europe for years in order to regulate working time, an institution based on mutual understanding and facilitation of the parties and contributing to ensuring a balanced secure and friendly working environment. In this respect, moreover, the safety of workers' rights, the protection of dignity and gender equality reaches many provisions of the present which seek a brave effort to reconcile, personal and family, with working life. However, the protection of workers' rights would not have made sense if the draft law did not contain provisions on the modernisation and immunisation of trade union representation. This is how we have regulations aimed at protecting the social system by providing the minimum guaranteed service during strikes in the public interest. Furthermore, transparency is ensured by the compulsory registration of trade unions in the electronic register, in order to prevent unions - seals and the possibility and distance of workers being involved in the general assemblies. Now you're going to tell me: was there a need for these arrangements? So let us see, in all the polls in the question to the citizens whether they trust the institutions, the trade unions are last coming between the twenty-fifths or structures included in the questionnaire of around 13%, even lower than the employers' organisations that certainly cover much less. This means that, against the fragmentation of forces, faded demands, trade union violence, against the colonies, opacity, militant trade unionism, against organised minorities, the majority of labour forces are standing, a majority demanding a courageous and modern trade union movement, a trade union movement that will not be held by conservative fears of the technological developments that the flowers had in the 19th century. In this silent majority so far, this draft law is aimed at giving it a voice and a strength to renew trade union action in order to regain its lost credibility in society as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u25	The honourable Member has the floor from the Movement of Change, Mr Kastanidis Charalambos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u26	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion sets out every known rule of individual and collective labour law aimed at protecting labour, from working time to trade union rights. And I wonder that the government insists in a universally monotonous way to defend the position that its arrangements help the worker, and not only help him in the field of work, but help him to regenerate his free time and family life for the happier. And it is certain that the opposition fails to understand what the government is trying to do. Let us look at the fundamental problem, which is the adjustment of working time. The institution of the working time arrangement has been a well-known institution since 1990, but it has never been the subject of an individual accession convention. It was a result of operational collective agreements or contracts with the trade union in a particular undertaking. It was never regulated by an individual contract. In the employment relationships, the government's fine state of affairs does not apply, as it describes it, namely that two friends of each other agree with each other and have the time of the worker. To give you the understanding, let me use a real example. Assuming that Mr Pafilis Athanasios works in one of the companies of the employer Hatzidakis. One morning of a positive spring Mr. Hadjidakis, addressing Mr. Pafilis, says: "Mr. Pafile, let's go to a working time arrangement for your own good and business." Then Mr Pafilis says to him: 'You know, I would remind you of the relevant provision which states that only I can propose the adjustment of working time, and if I may be fired, then your dismissal will be invalid'. As he listens to legitimacy, the employer Hatzidakis responds to Mr. Pafile: "Mr. Pafile, I have had to pay attention to this regulation. Excuse me! We won't go any further. You will remain in business with the time you know and not only will I not fire you, but I will hold you for the next thirty years in my business." Happily, Mr. Pafilis, because he was heard by the employer in a work relationship where Mr. Pafilis and Mr. Hadjidakis are strong and powerless. This is what Mr Hatzidakis and his Government describes. Of course, however, Mr Pafilis did not consult the House's Scientific Service to denounce the latest Scientific Service of the House that there is no worker, nor a professor of the Labour Court, nor a person who is in fact involved in the institutions of the collective and individual labour court, who defends that a dependent employment relationship can be made so simplely an individual arrangement. But it doesn't just expose working time. It goes far enough to the point that the worker is now officially demolished. Because the government is forgetting to tell us that, in addition to the compulsory overtime imposed by the employer, overtime may also be overtime which, up to 50 hours, are no longer paid with 60% of the paid wage, but 40%. So when the opposition tells you that we will proceed with a reduction in workers' wages, it says so because your text says so, not because it imagines it. The ADR arrangement? The government creates another independent administrative authority. Independent Authority it is called, insulting the independent principles of constitutional law. The government. He wants to do an independent management authority that will inspect legality in the workplace. EC 11-1989, Now, what kind of independent management a Authority is when its administration is chosen by a council whose majority is designated by the Government? We're used to by the government. Was it going to proceed with the selection of president and Vice-Presidents of the AACC? It changed the recruitment regime after almost thirty years of validity of the old rules. He wants to go ahead with arrangements I don't know about, does he? It changes the choice of the head of the independent authority for the laundering of dirty money, placing retired judges, who will be chosen by a joint decision of the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Finance. Now he wants to do an independent administrative authority, of which - I repeat - the leadership is chosen by a council controlled by the government. However, there is one more thing: the regulation of labour relations, and in particular the protection of workers' rights, is the hard core of the Constitution and therefore the hard core of state obligations. It cannot be regulated, even independent - supposedly independent - of the administrative authority. It is a basic, fundamental obligation of the State and, therefore, the State must have an absolute, total responsibility for enforcing legality in the workplace. I should like to close, Mr President, with one comment, even though I have to say differently. Conservative anti-reforms are not only dealt with in the House, but also with the presence of society that must be upright. It welcomes the government and reflects the reality, because society is not to the extent that we wanted to be present and active in its action, against such conservative reforms, exponential'reforms'. There must therefore also be a message to the citizens. There are no changes in the right direction without the presence of society. This society, however, the government will find it sometime in front of it. It's a society without collective consciousness. The collective consciousness is ruined. It is a society that is resigned and tired of a super-10-year fiscal crisis, followed by the sufferings of the pandemic. A resigned and tired society can temporarily be treated and rejoiced. But at some point, he will rise, because as a very conservative intellectual, Edmund Berk, said: "When you reduce the rights and welfare state, the social state, then you will resurrect and see social tolerance towards the policies being pursued." Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that Conservative Edmund Burke will inspire the government, although I do not believe it. Here neither does the dead father of neoliberal ideology inspire them, who, as you know, stated shortly before he died: "I told you, privatize, privatize, privatize. I was wrong. The right thing is that we need to strengthen the welfare rule, because only with this welfare state can there be a balanced society," Milton Friedman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u27	Mrs Agathopoulos has the floor now from SYRIZA. After Mrs Agathopoulos she will take the floor for three minutes to present his amendment, the Minister of National Defence, Mr. Papanagiotopoulos. Here, Mrs Agathopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office, we have talked about this in the committees, and you have heard it from the institutions. The bill that we have been discussing today and these last few days is the epitome of regression, the absolute elasticisation of labour, unconditional support for employers. It is, in fact, the continuation of the Memorandum policies that you implemented by 2014, but now without any memoranda. After all, then Mr. Adonis Georgiadis said that if there were no memos, we should have invented them. And just such an invention, a monumental one, is this bill that we have been discussing these days, which, with mathematical accuracy, leads to a reduction in jobs and an increase in unemployment, a reduction in wages, exhaustive hours of work, a complete violation of acquired rights and, of course, the migration of our young people abroad. Why does who want to stay here to have such exterior working conditions? You say the circumstances change. What are these conditions changing and can man now work ten hours a day continuously, four times a week for at least half a year? We suddenly acquired superpowers? The introduction of the eighth hour ago was random? And thankfully the New Democracy Government has today been found to open our eyes to us, that this no longer needs to be true? The six-hour promotion countries what is it? Are they underdeveloped? There's no job there, is that why they work less? We're supposed to live in the 21st century, that technological progress would make it easier for people to work and we wouldn't have to work as long ago as possible. But you've been clinging to the middle ages before. And I wonder if any of you have worked ten hours on a permanent basis, to know if that can be possible. And as a veil to all these anti-government regulations which have been debated very thoroughly here during this three-day debate, you also bring two international conventions and a European directive - the country's obligations - to tell us that you are protecting workers. First of all, if it were up to you, you will never bring these arrangements. It's the country's obligation, and that's why you bring them. Neither to combat violence and harassment at work are you interested in health and safety nor are you interested in reconciliation of family and working life. Besides, you now, Mrs. Syrégla, give me an unpaid day off. What can workers do with parental leave? They don't need them. They'll have the unpaid day off. You are therefore bringing the arrangements for the reconciliation of family and working life within this paternity leave, parental leave, and so on, licences which, as a whole, relate to a few months of our working life. And so you think you've come to an end with reconciliation, that this is reconciliation. On the one hand, on the other hand, a ten-hour daily job, a reduction in wages, flexible individual contracts, as the employers want, and on the other hand, we throw a cheese with certain licensed European standards so that you do not feel completely slaves. And that's what you call reconciliation. So you think you'll get the young people to stay in Greece and have a family? So you think so, why have you made your flag of demographics, that you're helping in the demographics? Or are you helping in the demographics with your participation in some unacceptable conferences on fertility? And I want you to answer, Madam Secretary, which woman or couple doesn't know today that after forty it's very difficult to have children? Wait for the conferences you're supporting to tell her? So that's why, because people don't know, they don't have a family before thirty-five, forty? Does their lack of knowledge prevent or precarious work and poor wages? You are completely irrelevant to equality issues, and I am sorry to say it completely dangerous and you prove it every day. You have no contact with reality nor with what you yourself have voted on. And I will give you an example, Article 45 of the bill, you've seen it, says about the leave to single parents and says in particular: "To the workers who have been widowed and the single parent who has the sole custody of a child is granted six working days a year in addition to the one who is entitled to other provisions." Do you not know that a few days ago you changed the law on custody and more than a majority of cases of custody after the divorce will continue to be exercised jointly? You're not talking to the Justice Department? You're not talking to Mr. Chiara? Do you not understand that when you put a provision here for six working days' leave to parents who have the sole custody of a child, you are thus limiting to the minimum the beneficiaries of this licence and will remain on paper only? I move on to the International Convention on Violence and Harassment at Work. You told us that GFCM was in agreement with your provisions. In fact, twenty-two pages of comments by the GFCM only on the contract because it agrees with your provisions. What if he disagreed with what he would bring down as a text? I'll testify to them in the Minutes. If you haven't seen them, at least see them now. Does the National Committee on Human Rights agree with the provisions of the bill, because apart from being judged - I will table this in the Minutes too - on the legislative procedure, what does it say in the 190 Convention? It says: the LRA negatively assesses the way in which ratification of the 190 Convention is attempted, as the text shows serious issues in the enforcement measures. Its implementation is expected to be difficult mainly due to a regression in relation to the existing national institutional framework due to ambiguities, omissions and contradictions. Congratulations! What else does he say? A limited scope only for large enterprises, while the composition of the Greek economy consists mainly of small and micro-enterprises. We have also told you in the Commission that you do not understand. What else does he say? Confusing SEA, Citizens' Counsel and National Transparency Authority to the detriment of victims of violence and harassment, the risk of protecting workers as a result of the withdrawal so far of the collective dimension of working time arrangements. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing.]] What else does he say? The protection of workers from dismissal is excessively affected by this bill. What else? The draft law promotes a disproportionate restriction on the right to strike.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u29	Mrs Agathopoulos, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u30	I shall conclude, Mr President. But these are not my words, they are not SYRIZA, they are the National Committee on Human Rights which has nothing to do with SYRIZA. You keep deaf, you keep listening to no one. You will vote for this bill yourself without the support of neither society nor the other political parties isolated from the whole society.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u31	Mrs. Agathopoulos, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u32	I shall conclude, Mr President. So, as SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, we are committed to coming to implement what we are saying today, and the reconciliation policies in practice, and the 30-day and four-day period, and the attempt to increase the minimum wage that we have started, because we are not living to work, we are working to live. I'm closed, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u33	Ms. Agathopoulos, but close.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u34	We can take the meeting today until 3: 00:00 at night if you're in such a hurry for all Members to speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u35	You won't tell me until what time we're going to take the meeting. Learn to respect colleagues from all the next parties. I would remind you that by unanimous decision of Parliament at the beginning of the bill we agreed on 20:00. Thank you for the suggestion, but I would remind you of the unanimous decision. Before giving Mr Velopoulos the floor, I will give the floor to the Minister of National Defence, Mr Panayotopoulos, to support his amendment. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, my intervention concerns the amendment of the Ministry of National Defence tabled under deposit number 929 and the specific number 62/11-6.2021 in the bill under discussion. In some ways, it also has an impact, since it supports the project and ensures the sustainability of the Greek Defence Systems, it is the NSA, one of the main pillars of the National Defence Industry. The proposed provisions therefore amend two Articles 125 and 126 of Law 4446/2016. It was the articles by which evidence of insurance and tax information was provided for a period of fifty-four months starting from 22 December '16, when the law that is being amended today was passed. As you can see in a simple numerical way, the fifty-four months expire in June, that is, now, and there was therefore a need to extend twelve months to this regime. Therefore, this amendment seeks to provide the company with uninterrupted evidence of tax and insurance information and to suspend enforcement and enforcement measures at the expense of its movable and immovable property for a further period of 12 months, i.e. by 22 June 2022. Why are we doing this? This extension ensures the further participation of NSAs in public works or procurement tenders, the possibility of collecting money from the Greek State and the continued operation and operation of the company in the production and marketing of ammunition and war materials in connection with the completion of outstanding contracts with the Greek State. It is a necessary measure for the company to continue to operate and to be able to claim and take jobs rather than from the domestic Armed Forces, which is, moreover, its regular tactic and demand. Therefore, an extension of 12 months in the regime for the granting of proof of insurance, tax information to ESDC, and I would ask the House to support and vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u38	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u39	Mr Minister, I would like to ask, because they are not clear from the amendment, about their land and location. First of all, what exactly is the point of selling land? Secondly, does it concern an earlier sale attempt, which was partly completed, of a land adjacent to the ELPEs? Is this other land? Is there a starting price in relation to the sale? If you can answer these questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u40	All right, they have nothing to do with the amendment, for another thing is the amendment. To explain. Minister, for one minute you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u41	This question has been answered, it can be re-established under parliamentary scrutiny. I just came here to support the amendment to extend the tax information regime. This isn't about it. Twelve months in the law of '16.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u42	All right, we heard that. It's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u43	Because there was a report, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u44	For the other, ask a timely question for the Minister to come. The President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. I was expecting Mr. Skourletis to ask whether the new US bases will be given to Skyros to place the Americans on the radar. As if given, Minister, the new bases in Xanthi. It's Alexandroupolis, Xanthi, Skyros, we constantly give bases. But root and payment are forgotten.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u46	And the Russians should give everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u47	You gave it to yourself, that's the way it is. When we rule, we give more. That's how I expected it to work. To talk about the Americans. Consequences of the Left Party, the JRC. You're turning them away from us. Sometimes, you know, power is smashing and ideology changes, if necessary. Minister, the work relieves the man of the three greatest evils, said the great Voltaire, first dementia, second defects and third need. That's what Voltaire said many centuries ago. You come with a bill of working elephant really to form a new working middle age in complete contrast with the ancient Greek secretariat and logic of Focylindos, who said about wages: "Find the man who worked. Don't worry about the poor." You are a party that comes from the wide popular strata, but you hate the poor. You have confused capitalism with extreme liberalism. Why am I saying that? I speak as a businessman, you know. Tell me which company the poorly paid worker is happy and produces well. Tell me a company, a job. Unless you change the tone and work, you do the job. Because another job, another job. You're confusing things. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Of course, slavery comes from your relationships with the fewer, because political slavery leads, I repeat, the worker at work. Because it's about slavery. What do you do with this infamous medieval bill? Repeal of the eighth. And what party? The party that with the general Karamanlis and the collective agreements passed, and the eight hours he brought, and the employee, gave rights. You have nothing to do with that New Democracy. You are another New Democracy that is not about the voters of the New Democracy. Fifty-hour week, uncontrolled redundancies, the abolition of Sunday holidays, violation of the basic rule of Orthodoxy, which you are members of the New Democracy - I understand that the JRC has another view - but Sunday is the day on the scriptures we pray. Even that you forgot. Repeal of Labour Inspectorate. Instead of hiring people to carry out checks, you give them to private individuals to control companies. And can I tell you something? This is completely unconstitutional, and I'll put it down below. Prohibition of strikes. It is the highest right of the worker to strike. Of course, I have to say that there have also been abuses. Because, furthermore, the use of the strike and abuse by bad trade unionists. Having each week strikes, I tell you directly, all he can do is damage to the worker and not help him. But criminalizing trade union activity is shameful, is it inappropriate and rewarding the strike? So we're talking about the new donors, the new mobs that will break the strike and be rewarded. These are unbelievable things in a winter society that is falling, that the Greek does not have a job, which has left six hundred thousand Greek birds from the Greek area. So I'll tell you the mistakes one by one in this bill. Wrong one: The report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament is a catapult. Article 59 for working hours is incompatible with labour law. It criticises the possibility of an individual contract between an employer and a worker. Wrongly, the staff manager can indicate to the worker an eight-hour elastic, that is, he also has ten hours of work. The worker may deny, but the tampering break of redundancies is above his head. These are selfish things for those who have worked. But for those who have not worked in their lives not a single day, they have not stuck a single sign, they have not produced themselves real wealth and have not worked are unfavorable things. We in the Greek Solution are one of those who are also free professionals, and entrepreneurs, and workers, and we know what it means to fight and trouble and pain. Wrong third: If he protests, he'll be fired for another reason. If the dismissal is unlawfully decided by the court, the undertaking shall not be obliged to reinstate it. These are incredible things. He's given him a little payroll, that is whispering, and he says go on. Wrong fourth: The digital digit card, which Mr Pierracakis and New Democracy are so attracted, will not be implemented in the next period. So no one knows whether the reduced working hours will be applied or not. Wrong fifth: Overtime is effectively abolished. In the event that an additional two days per ten-hour period is allowed, it says that the right of an hour of overtime shall be deleted. What's this? Where did you get all this? Wrong Sixth: By individual contract the company may suspend employment for an indefinite period. Wrong Seventh: Five-hour can be shared in a three-hour and a two-hour breakfast. They spent it in the House here, where others come in the morning a couple of hours or an hour and come in the afternoon an hour, but are paid normally. That's where they won't be paid at all. That's the truth. They steal the worker, steal the poor, rob the Greek worker's pocket, that's what they do! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Incorrect eight: For post-acquisition mothers a four-month maternity leave is provided for, but only two months will be paid. I ask you: In a country where demographics are the major theme of a nation, you come and say to the mother: "Forgot what you knew, we don't care, it's none of our business. Come to work and leave the child where?’ I'll tell you where. Because things are tragic. But of course you have a solution with the President of the Republic. We will enrich the country with illegal immigrants, with new Greeks, with twenty-two-two-year-old children, who, he says, will help to solve - insurance contributions - while we have so much unemployment, but also to enrich the country with new Greek citizens, whether they call it Hassan or Ibrahim, it doesn't matter to you, it doesn't matter to you. It's our business. We will motivate Greeks to be born, to produce Greeks and not to produce what you want to be multicultural. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Wrong Ninth: Workers will be paid with the day off. From tomorrow I propose that the New Democracy implement this in its Piraeus Party to its workers first, piloted for a year, to pay the workers a day off and see them here. Who are you laughing at when PPC Golden Boys get 350 grand a year, your Golden Boys? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Wrong tenth: The bill overturns the most important laws of labour law, Law No 2112/1920, Law No 1264/1982, Law No 1876/1990. The main principle of the bill is growth, but with a cheap labour clause. Who's that working for? The fewer you serve and the Germans who allegedly invest in Greece either "FRAPORT", or "EL DORAD,O" or all those who came here. They serve and serve. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] European, foreign state-owned protagonists. Is the Greek airports 'FRAPORT' a private company? It's state. You don't know that? Are those who bought our airports private? State's in the back. But you don't say that. You hate the Greek state. You want to dive it, privatize it and buy it other states from the back door. Wrong tenth: Labour poverty explosion, wage cuts, cheap overtime, favourable arrangements for collective labour contracts. In a new and bigger wave of immigration, it will lead to the medieval bill you brought here. Manual society produces and creates not a society of workers who are smiling, a society of workers who can go home mocking their children, talking with them, hugging them. You are creating a society of young people who will have no fate in the sun. Wrong eleven: put the strike in perspective. That's unbelievable. It's tragic to me. Another misuse - and there is a bunch of laws that are canceled with them - is the abuse and another deletion of the right to strike. You have suffered an anti-constitutional slip. You've committed yourself to a big crime and you haven't understood it. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Wrong twelfth: Anti-constitutional replacement of the EIA by independent authority. You have a weakness in the independent authorities to help your own people, and I am sorry to say that. The Constitution says five, thirty-two we have, thirty-three you are now doing to share 600m euros, according to the Minister's answer, to governors, directors, board members sitting in chairs, failed MPs and your members having votes. The other children of the Greeks, the children of SYRIZA, the children of the KKE, the children of Greek Solution, the children of Mera25 or the Movement of ChangeINAL, aren't they children? Only your children are cozy and you have to take care of them? These are crimes. Also, Minister, I was told that you had an obligation, an interview, I understand, it is a heavy burden, but in any case we are going to go a little bit to the economy. The gentleman's here, too. Minister. Minister, I heard you complain to SYRIZA yesterday. And you did well because they would vote and if they did not apply them, you are now applying them. We must become Europeans, Minister. At some point the Minister said here that we must become Europeans. Should we be Europeans with Greek wages, with Greek insecurity? Unemployment to such an extent? How do we become Europeans? Do we have the same tax regime? Do we have the same benefits as Europeans? No, Mr Hatzidakis, you have the wrong idea of Europe. For us Europe means 'I take the good first and apply them, and then I experiment with the experimental animals in the workers, in the Greeks'. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You're wrong, Minister. You have travelled abroad as I do, and if you think that's the way the workers in Germany, France or Italy are wrong, Minister. You probably don't go abroad or when you go out, you don't see well. Also, and this is important, at some point for the economy, Minister, we have noted you many mistakes. Wrong first: I was reading "BLOOMBERG" yesterday and talking about Bill Gates, this known one. It holds two hundred and sixty thousand acres in eighteen states in the United States because its new business plan is the production of agricultural products. He's not a sucker. Unless some ministers here think they're smarter than Gates, unless some in here think they have more food, they're bigger brains and more successful than Mr Gates. So when it leads you mathematically in a direction in the next decade, which is the production of agricultural products, the use of water, but mainly of the goods that man needs to survive, it shows you the way. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You found another way, in the fields, you put photovoltaics and forklifts, wind turbines to keep your friends from working, and I'm sorry to say we've become the dumpster of the wind turbines of the Germans. Second mistake: Hydrocarbons. I have fought since 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 here. I was the only one who said it. All of them fooled me and came out today, the Greek Minister for Foreign Affairs, and cancels the possibility of mining the hydrocarbons. But if you buy wells and go out for hydrocarbons in the Eastern Mediterranean, you'll have $10 billion, $20 billion, $30 billion, $40 billion. That means you'll pay the Rafale and the freshmen and you'll get a profit. But if I do what you do, I go and get some loan to pay the guns, I'll pay them five times over because they're loan and interest. This is the difference of the Greek Solution. We will produce wealth to pay, you borrow, charge the next generations so you can't pay it back. That's your fault. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Also wrong third: automobile industry. Greece is the only country that does not have a car industry. Listen to me, not even accessories. Two hundred and ninety-eight companies with accessories in Europe and not even one has invested in Greece. Instead, they gave Turkey 216% over money for vehicles produced or manufactured in Turkey. Turkey produces two and a half million cars. Companies such as 'BEKO', 'VESTER', 'ZORLU' and others are one of the largest electronic devices producers in Europe. This is the Greece of deindustrialisation, of the hitting of the rural economy, of livestock farming, of fisheries, of the non-production of wealth. That's our difference. We want to produce wealth and pay, you borrow - I repeat - and charge the next generations for thinking about the next elections and not the next generations. That is our fundamental difference. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Next mistake: the Germans are doing business, they've found us a bunch of suckers. That's the truth. I won't say we've been found by suckers, I'll say we've been found by suckers. Instead of recompensing us for at least EUR 100 million for Diesel Gate which the Minister for Development does not claim - nor did you ever claim it as a government - they put in forages all over Greece, they shut down the lignite for the Germans who use lignites and the Poles. Why should we close 200 billion, 300 billion - how many lignites are there? - to make green growth and green horses? I'll tell you to understand, all Greece to fill with fortresses again, we don't have energy self-sufficiency and adequacy, understand it. The only solution is what Mr Denktia has released: the extraction of natural gas, energy self-sufficiency and export of it abroad to have currency. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Because you don't know the basics, I'm going to testify a study carried out at a Greek university for the problematic installation of wind turbines in relation to our radars. Look for a bit at the danger of wind turbines on our islands. Our radars will have a problem tracking. I'm stopping it here because you've committed crimes in this matter. Next mistake: the economy cannot rely on tourism. Mercy with tourism. Germany has a trillion in GDP, but it has a heavy industry. It produces pins, supplements that we produce in Greece as well as me, but even helicopters, planes not, but it produces tanks. Don't forget, warships produce. You're shutting down the shipyard with criminal errors. And you didn't open them. You have closed the Greek shipyards, you have sent unemployment to Greek shipyards and abroad to work for Germans, for Frenchmen, for Italians and we are forced to buy French, Dutch ships. Who? We taught shipping, shipyard, all over the planet. Good, you're defeated, you're bankrupt, you've ruined the place! That's the truth! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Wrong Seven: I was talking about tourism. We expect to buy from the German aubergine salad with the sandal and sock. That's where you got the Greek. What tourism? Which tourism is all inclusive that kills the region, which kills every island that has tourism? What tourism? On the other hand, while the Prime Minister knows very well, Britain excluded Greece, Russia has just one flight a week, the Germans prefer Spain and Portugal, most islands do not have any PCR TEST centres that they need to return to people. And the Greek Prime Minister is begging Johnson to tell him, send us again "green". What are these things? What logic of irrationality are these? And you reached a deficit of 8.16 billion in the first few months of 2021. You are constantly receiving loan at the expense of our own children, at the expense of the children of Greece you are constantly borrowing at small interest rates. Who's gonna pay for this money? Tell us at last! Loaning is easy, we all know what to do. I will tell you, gentlemen of the New Democracy and gentlemen of the government, not everyone really does for everything, but some people are not doing for anything, and you are unfortunately you and your government, because with loan you cannot make a policy. It can't be done. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Let's go to the reasons I think the world has voted for a New Democracy. The world has voted for a New Democracy for three reasons. The first one is for Skopje, with the headlines, with the chlamys you were going to the rallys, and now we've suffered a defeat of the race that took place. And I'll tell you more now. The second reason is because they did not want the Turks to enter the Aegean. They believed in you. The third was not to do what is happening with illegal immigrants. You blamed those who are melted from the side and now they are better melted under the shed. And the important thing to me is this. Listen: The problem with you is that you use a wooden word. You don't understand that the wooden word dismisses the world. For example, there is no point in the stability pillar in Greece. Tell me what that means? A pillar of stability, resentment and endemicism? Is that a stability pillar? Also, tell me what a democratic arc we all say in here. We've violated every concept of the Constitution. You're getting certificates of a new type of vaccine pedigree. You are canceling the proceedings in Parliament, you are shutting down microphones of the group leaders, calling for the Rules of Procedure of the House that you have forgotten in this House many times. You're talking about growth. Development without industry where have you seen it? "We see light in the tunnel", yes you put the darkness, go bankrupt the country and now, you see light in the tunnel. That's a wooden reason. We're on the same show. I'm sorry to say that. The Prime Minister spoke to Mr Erdogan. It's not bad to talk to someone. I agree with that, too. But with someone who has the brakes safely, not with an authoritarian fascist who has imprisoned the whole world in Turkey, one who claims pieces of Greek territory and legalizes his claims. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Also, I've heard it thirty-eight times before: moratorium in the Aegean. And on the 20th of July Erdogan will go to Cyprus, which the Prime Minister curiously left. He didn't even mention it to Cyprus. Because Cyprus is Greece. Understood. So the Turks, while the Prime Minister was meeting, on the day before, were hitting a Greek port two times. And this ship was taken from the Turks with Greek money and European money. We're talking about these Turks. You're talking about a challenging freeze. Erdogan goes on July 20th and opens a drum base in the Occupied Territories. What are you talking about? I'll say something else. And I'm not just addressing you. I address everyone, the media and the journalists. Since the Prespecies Agreement only relates to state institutions, why is ‘SKAI’, ‘STAR’, ‘ANDENNA’, ‘ALPHA’ and all channels and MPs, but also journalists call Skopje Northern Macedonia? You tell me, since it's only about transnational relations. That's what SYRIZA signed. It's not about the rest. So why are they constantly talking about northern Macedonia, while their intentions when they talk about them, talk about Macedonia, not even about northern Macedonia? You're committing a crime. You excite the Greek people to the name of Northern Macedonia, to swallow it, for six seconds. The habit tells you. After the other one gets used to, Macedonia will be swallowed. The Greeks will not swallow either the north or the south or any of it. You want Albanians? That's the way it will be. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Can I also hear the Greek Foreign Minister begging the Skopje Minister for Foreign Affairs? Listen to this: "Get out of the shirts in the middle of Macedonia." And the Skopje Foreign Minister responds to him, the Albanian in origin, Osmani: "Read what Greece signed the Prespecies Agreement." This is your big deal. Rejoice with SYRIZA! Rejoice that you implement it in the New Democracy! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I am sorry to say this, because I know that many of you are honest people, whether nationally or nationally, to say it very simply, or you love the country as we all love it. But prove it. Do you love Greece? Evidence. Do you love Macedonia? Proof, not in words, but in actions. I'd like to say something on the left. When I see you ironing the thoughts of the Skopje on the field, the chlamyds they were wearing and you tell them graphics - thoughts with corpse - then I will convince you that you are against evil nationalism. Until then, for me personally - and I am referring to myself - you will be Greek-phobic and not - I repeat - people of peace. It's over and out. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I did not see any announcement from SYRIZA condemning Skopje's fascist, chauvinistic, militaristic slogans on the field. And this is abstract of your bad agreement, which the New Democracy applies faithfully, because the state keeps up with it. They're just things. Dissemination of responsibility is called this. We as Greek Solution do not say "Only Greece, only the Greeks". We say 'First Greece, first Greeks'. That's our difference. Other ‘only’, other ‘first’. We're clearing this up. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Of course, our goals are perfectly normal, for the survival, strengthening of the countryside, the survival of the Greeks, the empowerment of the Greeks, to have Greeks in a few years' time. That's what we're doing and that's what we're going to do. You've been crashing for the last three days for a spot. I wasn't involved in the absurdity. You never thought about what the cause of women's infertility is and what the primary problem is to cure it. Because what you have been discussing again was the origin of the cause. We're having some or no kids. That's the truth. How to have children with 450 euros, gentlemen. My Minister, how can someone else have children with this middle-aged working thing you're bringing? How Greeks will give birth when you make Greek slaves and not workers. Because the Aristotle right-wing governments took the Greek into taxation, made the child presumption, because the schools are miserable, because there are no nursery stations, because both parents are not working every day, working to survive they have no place to leave their children, because the parents take together 1,000 euros and have a rent of 450 euros, because a birth costs 3,000 euros, because by law you consider the child to be a presumption. The kid's not a car. He's not home. It's not a luxury kind. It's kind of an emergency to survive the nations. It is a 'kind' of reproduction of an entire people. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Eject society to polarization. You are fighting for the small, unharmed and not the serious ones. You are starting to say a lot of nonsense, nonsense deliberately, fraudulently and dangerously, because instead of finding a way to solve demographics, you have one ultimate goal: the dissolution of society, polarisation, division for party and only small-party reasons. And that bothers us as a Greek solution. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] It's a parliament that's really scary. He'll find thousands of pretexts to avoid the substance, avoid the debate on the importants. It's been defeated before he even fought. And you know why? Why are you behind the scenes praised for political slowness, all of you without exception. You agree with The Hague, you agree with the vaccines, you agree with everything great crucial there is for Skopje and you disagree with the little ones. You're in favour of paralytic slowness. We are in favour of the vigilance of Greece, the vigilance of the Greeks, to move forward. You're yesterday and we're today. You're the past and we're the future. We're the solution, and you're the last one. It's over and out. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Also, I'm going to say something that makes me sad. We've been saying good-bye in '21. We welcome a middle ages, unfortunately. One is the solution to all of this - and that is our view - one is the real solution. Or sit down and talk seriously about the big flaming issues that come and are not hidden or four years and the solution will be given. The solution will be Greek. The Greek Solution will give the solution. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] To close, in order not to abuse more time, now, gentlemen of the New Democracy, which we have dead and side effects, when I told you that we are alert, we are not against vaccines. I'll do the pneumococcal vaccine next year. I was telling you not to risk lives. Even a lifetime risking is a crime in our view. Now that we officially have dead and serious side effects, will these numbers be announced every day? Will they say we have side effects from the vaccines or will you bury them again? So I'll tell you your mistakes. Wrong first: Prime Minister to Schrotter at ‘ALPHA’: ‘We have not stopped from the first moment. I want to remind you of the vaccination with the vaccine 'AstraZeneca'. We have seen that the vaccine is absolutely safe." It can't be said this thing today, after a few days to say it's forbidden for the over sixty or don't. Wrong 2: You're asking us to make any vaccine that's been authorized for emergency. It has not been a normal development and integration research phase. I'm telling you exactly what the WHO says. Not officially approved by Coreper. The third mistake: an unexplained decision of the Committee on Vaccines. ‘No vaccination with ‘AstraZzeneca’ for under sixty’. Now you tell me. What will the under-six who did "AstrazZeneca" say? What are you gonna tell them all? They went to my friends and acquaintances and they did it. Because we didn't stop anyone from doing the vaccine. We are in favour of freedom, democracy, the integrity of each other's body. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] While you are the imposition and, above all, extortion, that if you do not, you will have this. You're getting ministers out on the channels of blackmail as if they were Sinaloa here and blackmailing the Greeks. Wrong fourth: You are confusing the world. Lino's coming out yesterday. What is not yet said by the Commission is that JOHNSON & JOHNSON have the same side effects for young women. I shall submit the statement in the Minutes. And JOHNSON & JOHNSON and MODERNA. I've been telling you we're skeptical. I didn't tell you we were against the vaccines. That's what bothers me. And I heard Mr Tsipras, and I honestly cannot understand his logic. I heard him say we're all in favor of vaccines other than Velopoulos. Probably, he hasn't heard from Paul or the director of his office today who made the statement. The director of Mr. Tsipras' office made a statement today. I read it carefully, and I get it. Listen: 'The pity on your neck'. Who? Mr. Tsipras who agrees on vaccines or New Democracy? Paulis says other things. Blonde says other things. Tsipras says other things. The director of his office tells him more. So make up your mind. You're more of a bunch of people, all of them together. Decide who you are and what you are. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Wrong fifth. You're really like blackmailers in Sinaloa. Not you. You put the useful idiots or scientists who have another view. Vassiliou: "Let us deprive them of what they like. They will be vaccinated.’;
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u48	Did you do the vaccine?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u49	No, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u50	Okay, good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u51	Do I have to do this? I'll do it when I'm sure and when you allow me to choose the vaccine I want. I'm not allowed to.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u52	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u53	Not you, your system.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u54	I asked a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u55	And I answer: Paulakis and the director of Mr. Tsipras' office.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u56	Please! Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u57	You're going to convince Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Polakis to tell me if I did the vaccine. Do you understand, Mr. Skourlet? Convince your people first and then convince everyone else. I'm saying. I might be wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u58	You're dangerous.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u59	Don't interrupt. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u60	Hazardous is you. Five years you have reached Greece. A hundred billion in there, but you're covered by them. They cover you, unfortunately. They don't do an examination, see who's to blame. The Skourlet spoke of dangerous ones, too. Now what to say. Who said that? Mr. Skourlet! Okay. George Papandreou. Let's actually go. Sixth mistake. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You're really inappropriate to some of your behavior. The Greek Solution never interrupted Mr. Tsipras. Never! As strict as he is toward us, no one has interrupted. But you have learned, Mr. Colleague, from 2012-2013. That's where you stayed in the minds, some of them. Let's actually go. Sixth mistake. Compulsory vaccinations. Council of Europe. Meeting of 27 January -1-2021: "Vaccineation is not mandatory. No political, social or other pressure. No discrimination.’ But New Democracy says we should do the vaccine. Mr. Tsipras says we should do the vaccine. Seventh mistake. They say he died, because he had a heart attack and a blood clot. Where'd he get it from? After the vaccine. How'd it happen? Suddenly he had thrombosis? What happened? It's like the bullet. They're arresting the bullet and not the gun or the moral automobile or the natural automobile. The opposition is a symptom, ladies and gentlemen. The heart does not wake up one good morning and says: “What should I do now? Do I have a day off? I don't have a day off? Let me have an arrest." You're making fun of the world. Wrong eighth. You're applying wrong measures. I have all the legislation of the Netherlands, so I don't get tired of you and her constitution. I'll testify to the Minutes. Never masks on the outside. Never in children even in schools. Vaccination optional. The Netherlands says that. The Dutch Ministry of Health. Even vaccinated ones can transmit the virus. No one can impose vaccinations on a worker. It's forbidden to ask a worker if he was vaccinated. It's personal. You did it before. The Dutch Ministry of Health has launched an investigation into the long-term unpleasant results of vaccines. The Netherlands yesterday! I'll testify to that in the Minutes and that. I'm not talking about their constitution. Ninth wrong. In Chile 72% were vaccinated. Lockdown, Santiago. In Santiago it was vaccinated 72% -75% with two doses and they have lockdowns from the other day. Tenth mistake. Fear, says the New Democracy, the tourists for COVID and the Prime Minister - now hear - Mr Johnson allow tourists to come to Greece. So you're not concerned about the sanitary bomb that's coming. Oh, no! That is, lightly, your heart chooses some actions. Wrong eleventh. At first, the pandemic would be over if we reached 60% of the vaccines. Later, he went to 70 percent. Now she's going to 80% and tomorrow she's going to 240%. Well, at the end of the day, we're gonna have a vaccine every week to keep everybody quiet. We're all gonna be experimental. Twelfth mistake. Peloni at ERT: "The immunity of the committee has been made to ensure freedom of speech for scientists." And that's what the Democratic Left likes. Does Mrs. Peloni say that? The other scientists who say other things, why are they being prosecuted by medical clubs? Tell me about it. Other scientists, who say other things, why are they persecuted and expelled from medical clubs? Aren't they scientists? Tell me about it. Why are they in danger of deletion? Wrong thirteenth. National Kapodistrian University of Athens, Alexandros Briasoulis, Assistant Professor of Cardiology and Thanos Diopoulos, Rector of the EMCDDA. They speak of rare cases of myocarditis and pericarditis. In the United States, we had reports. I stop here, so we don't terrorize anyone, as anyone says, but I'll say this. We have been seeing for ten days, twenty days after each other, the states back with AstraZeneca, starting to talk about the Pfizer that has side effects, and you insist as government that it does not cause any harm. How much harm can you have here when you insist on something that others take back? That is what you must say, Mr Colleague, and not ask whether we were doing the vaccine or not. Tell the Government, such as the director of Mr Tsipras' office, 'the pity on your neck'. And Mr. Tsipras' director is honest. He's not a kid who does what he wants. And also research...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u62	Yeah, I'm hanging up here. Also research into “Journal of Neurology”. Case of multiple sclerosis following vaccination with Pfizer. I'll submit it to the Minutes, please. So I close here and say: New Democracy, SYRIZA, Change Movement and some other parties are the vaccination parties and it seems. We are the parties of democracy, the free choice of each other's body. Everyone will do what they want in their bodies and we will not force anyone to do anything they don't want. This is our essential difference. We are with true democracy and you, with the democracy of the violation of the Constitution, of human values and, above all, of rights. So you are the parties to the vaccination and vaccination of Greeks. A four-year period calls for the Greek Solution to inoculate last night, to inoculate your bad texts and insanity. A four-year period and Greece will finally find the solution it deserves. Thank you very much. [[Stand Members of the Greek Solution applaud vividly and protractedly]] [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u63	Good. We will now give the floor to the State Secretary, Mr Tsakloglu. You have asked for the amendment, Mr Tsakloglu, to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u64	No, Mr. President, let me put myself...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u65	Now political leaders are coming. I was transferred from the previous President-in-Office to what you want - and I would indeed give you the floor - to develop the amendment. Now you're telling me about a placement. Warm request, if you want, wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u66	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u67	Good. We call on the General Secretary of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitris Koutsoubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that, in order to get here today in the House, to legalise this monstrous feud, you have recruited a lot of enthusiasm along with many lies and slander. Absolutely expected, of course. That's the way you are. Only lies you could use for so many new anti-corruption measures that leave nothing standing. Only by slandering about the organized, the struggler, the living trade union movement could a government like yours defend the overthrows of the century in the working landscape. But, whatever you do, even if your MPs finally pass this anti-government bill, even if this garbage becomes the law of your reactionary state and its mechanisms, you know that for a moment it will not be legalized in the conscience of the workers. That's where he's definitively convicted. It was called by tens of thousands of workers who were unemployed in the major strike gatherings throughout Greece, who defied terrorism, blackmail and the triplets that the workers tried to put them into, to use your own expressions, the expressions of the New Democracy party, as well as the Movement of Change, that is, PASOK and SYRIZA - of course -. The mother of the fights for Mr. Tsipras and his party almost finished before well - fine starts. However, tens of thousands of workers throughout the country, many and for the first time, have already sent where this bill belongs. Your parrots saved with their determination. Your bill, Mr Hatzidakis, does not have to tell you - you know - that it is not another anti-government bill, like what Mr Brutsis has to show from his ministerial term before Mrs Ahtsoglou or the previous PASOK ministers. Don't worry, then, don't have the stress you're expressing here or the channels supporting. You have already ensured your position beside and above your predecessors, by previous governments, that the law has set the ground, so that you can today give a overwhelming blow to employment rights by abolishing the eighth and limiting trade union action. You can boast of overcoming them in antiquity, darkness, because your bill intervenes directly in the heart of working rights, which is the fixed daily working time. But for the last reason, however, he is received by the workers, by the workers, by the workers, who well know what exploitation means, who live on their feet every day. The last reason for this is that young people and young people who already experience the best European practices do not need lessons from anyone like you. The last reason is that they all have him, the majority of the people, who, if they realize their power, the power of the collective unresolved struggle, can not only frustrate your law, but can also take their lives into their hands, claim modern rights to work and life. Their fear of having and as you seem to have. There is no greater proof of this than this bill, because beyond the remnant of working time you are trying to set up in the excerpt and trade union activity and the right to strike, extending, of course, older laws, in particular, last of SYRIZA. So why are you doing all this, since as you and the well-paid liars of your system, the struggles, the strikes, it's something that's outdated, something that's ineffective? And you are doing so, at a time when the labour union movement is not at its top, the opposite, because of the chronic dissolution of the government and employers' union over many years, remains in decline. The answer is self-evident, you fear the strength of the workers, you fear all those who, if they decide, can take away from you and all the barbaric system you serve. With lies, then, very courageous slander - we recognize this - you're trying to baptize black - white. To present your bill as a so-called charity. The stones laugh too. What you call modernisation is only about the oligarchy of wealth, big capital and how in today's conditions, increasing the exploitation of workers will guarantee and increase its profits further. For workers, however, even for young people who have not even met rights and conquests, even as their parents, grandparents and grandparents had, it is a great setback. They have never met in the world nor will they meet the real rights of workers with the profits and privileges of industrialists, shipowners, bankers, big businessmen, i.e. all of whom you represent the interests, even though they are a low social minority. Because profitability and competitiveness imply an intensity of exploitation, a smash of rights and to paraphrase the slogan of derelict OSCE: "Development needs impoverished workers". The new anti-government changes are the new prerequisites and the integration of the European Union's Recovery Fund, you see. This is the new super Memorandum, what you called Greece two zeros and SYRIZA Greece plus. That is why, in the end, you are not going to abolish this law, Mr. Tsipras, just as you have not abolished the other memos, but you have also voted for new ones. For the fund's 340 billion, which will end up again in the pockets of business groups, is the conversion of the whole country into a vast special economic area, cheap labour, with no regulated rights and a ban on trade union activity. Any legislative initiative, therefore, that moves around the set-aside of working time, cannot be for the benefit of workers. It is by hand anti-gay, because the settlement is, in essence, the abolition of the fixed daily resting time. This is, of course, for years now the pursuit of all those of you who have ruled to this day. Because he is the secret, but also the obvious aim of industrialists, shipowners, bankers and you are doing everything you can to fulfill him. Serve those who spit on you, like the shipowner Laskaridis, not to say anything worse. It is precisely here that the day-to-day work arrangement is the mechanism for the exploitation of workers, which is taking off with this bill. Mr. Hatzidakis will tell us again that he has been listening to these since the 1980s since he was a student. Uh, then something will have read or at least heard of Marx's capital for all this operation. Perhaps, too, Mr Hatzidakis here next door has heard that several decades ago he had been scientifically calculated that the working time needed to secure the means of survival of his worker, his family, for the maintenance and development of society did not exceed three hours of work in the major factories, so much it only took. These hours of work in modern companies were too much to pay for wages, social benefits and social security for workers. The remaining hours until eight were the so-called goodwill, the unpaid work that went directly into the capitalist's pocket. One understands how much this gainfulness is now growing by entering so many new technologies into production, by escalating productivity intensification. One understands how much the exploitation grows by increasing working time beyond eight eight hours. That is why the abolition of fixed daily working hours has been at the heart of the European Union's guidelines for decades. In fact, all of you in your government service for years have been trying to implement the European Union Directive on the adjustment of working time in full. To go through measures which, of course, you have codecision in the European Union. And you would have done it, as they did in some other European countries, if there were no struggles, the resistance of the class trade union movement in our country. We are proud that we, as a conn party, gave all our powers to the development of these games, which have put obstacles, delayed rival overthrows, that is, those which you are bringing today. It is not wrong that the Minister for Labour, who alone repeats that these arrangements apply in Europe, that they are not exactly his patents. He's right. They are taken out of the European Union's most reactionary manuals. From the time of the EEC, we are reminding you. You remember the famous White Paper on work in the early 1990s, which we as a party printed and moved to the workers, to inform them of blackness that will cover employment rights. You remember the famous post-flexicurity, flexibility and security, euphoria, a concept that invented the Union's staff to describe the new landscape in industrial relations. In this context, therefore, you have all stepped on one side by the governments. One of them gave the anti-grass dog to the next one. All of you have had your nest dirty, because you have all been compassed by this strategy of the European Union, its directives, the best European practices - and now you are telling us that this is the case in the labour market, as it was all done on their own. You all had as common reference Directive 88/2003, the directive, which calls normality the thirteen hours a day and allows a rest period within 24 hours. Thirteen hours of work and 11 hours of sleep, go and get some food. You sleep, you work nothing else. You stop being called human. The capitalist lets you live only to get his merchandise, money, and his very heavy hobbardal provides for up to twelve consecutive days of work without a day off, without stopping. This is how the people's Europe, the European Union, which, according to SYRIZA, can change, become more friendly, more humane, opened the gates of hell, of working hell. Once again it turns out that these associations of capitalists can only be worse for the people. With the European Directive work and rest is now being measured not in the twenty-four hours that the day has, but during a week or months' reference period. In 2011, with the first Memorandum, the PASOK government lawed this directive in the first phase for a ten-hour job. Would you like to remind you who were the rapporteurs and the Members who signed it? Headquarters of PASOK that today are central to SYRIZA. Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, Mr. Raguss, of course along with Mrs. Katseli at that time. And if you were then forced to set as a condition for its application to be provided for in a collective agreement of workers with their unions, you did so to cast only ashes in the eyes of the workers, who at the time were rediscovered on the streets of the race. So after you have done the dirty work, after you have set the ground, after you have legitimized in the workers' consciousness this logic of the arrangement, now you are pretending that you are breaking your clothes for the settlement of the New Democracy, as if there were a good and bad arrangement. Now, what exactly is New Democracy doing? It removes this minimum condition of the existence of collective agreements, introduces the ten-hour job, which will be imposed by employers by individual contracts of employment now. This, in very simple Greek, Mr Hatzidakis, is not the upholding of the eighth, as you are mocking, but his complete abolition. For the first time in a bill the following is outrageous, that the two extra hours beyond the eighth will not be paid, but will be returned with permissions and offshore when the job falls after weeks and months. Do you know what these two hours of work will be, which are supposed to be paid off? Loan and anguish! That's just what our people say. When and when the conditions allow it, i.e. the work and profits of the magnifier, then, yes, the workers will get their day off. We hear you're defending it. A little more and you will tell us that there are also workers who consider their right to work for 10 hours a day and that we should not deprive them of that right. Do these workers not want a reward at all? Do they only work for the experience, as a TV parrot used to say? You're about to tell us that the workers don't even expect your bill to be passed, they're already running tails out of the officer's office to sign a ten-hour job. You have the courage to give up on us, because we will not vote on it. Why are you telling us to stop a new mother from working every day for ten hours to see her kids even on Friday? Tell us exactly what kid wants to see his mother every Friday or every weekend and doesn't want her every day reading with her, playing with her, spending time with her? What child wants to see his mother exterminated, pissed off? And what do you think motherhood is, one blows the kiss for good night? I don't know what brains you carry, Mr. Hatzidakis, but as long as he passes through us, we won't condemn any mothers, no fathers to see his child. Because this will also be on Fridays, and on Sundays you are sending workers to work, since you are also abolishing Sunday holidays for dozens of branches. And while you have lied so much, of course mixed with many nonsense, to support the ten-hour job, at the same time you are increasing the number of legal overtime from the hundred twenty-eighth that currently applies in the fifty-five hours. At the same time, you set the daily limit of legal overtime at three hours, which, if they are added to the eighth hour and one hour of overtime, reach twelve hours of work a day. Sunwork with sunlight, with all that means to the health of the workers. Do you keep in mind the recent investigation of the World Health Organisation? Of course you have it, because it has already been tabled by the members of the JRC. It reveals that in developed countries seven hundred forty - five thousand early deaths are due to overworking with basic causes of heart problems and strokes, because workers worked over fifty - five hours a week. The survey tracks the ages forty-five to sixty-five years and reveals that those at that age worked for over fifty-five hours a week had 30% more chance of dying of a stroke and 17% more chance of dying of a heart attack. You know very well that this increase in hours will come to employers even cheaper, where, when we say it, you close your eyes like you say to them, "Strengthen redundancies, expel workers and keep them with unpaid work, as many hours as you want, since overtime will be free to make more profits you want." And all this at a time when official unemployment has climbed over the million again, when hundreds of thousands of workers are invaded by the inhaler of EUR 534 in the suspension. In these circumstances, therefore, and in order to support recovery and profits after the pandemic, you are signalling employers that they can easily get rid of staff, making easy and cheap redundancies. You're motivating them, that's. Even if workers are entitled to justice by the courts, you give the employer the option of reserving the dismissal. But what you are bragging about is there are workers who don't hear them for the first time. I mean, they've lived on them. I am talking about workers in the large hotels of all the tourist islands and of Halkidiki, where the arrangement with a collective labour contract signed by the Federation of workers, in which you are majority of the trade unions, the New Republic of Mitsotakis and the Changeinal Movement - PASOK of Mrs Gennimata. Workers work hours endless in luxury hotels and take months to get together as soon as the season is over. Now, with this legislative terminology they will do so without an additional fee and without a collective agreement. This arrangement, however, did not go to the large hotels in Attica and other parts of the country, but also to other branches where there are unions that collaps and collide with the FLAG and fight, sign contracts for the benefit of the workers. That's why today you're pulling out the obstacle to the collective agreement. Your bill does not simply legalise the jungle, which is already living, shapes the even worse next stage of work, without any right to rest, entertainment, rest, much more to organized claim and participation in the public. We have heard the Minister of Labour say that he is moving forward with a bill that modernises labour law, that he gives more opportunities, choices, opportunities for the worker, gives more power to the worker in the end. Where are you selling these, Mr. Hatzidakis? In your classroom? You know very well that labour law, underneath, of course, and from the pressure exerted by the labour movement, which was more powerful with its struggles, but also under the influence of conquests in workers in the former socialist countries - the past - this labour law defined the relationship between a worker and an employer as an unequal relationship. Protect the worker in a sense. Today, even this elementary thing is undoing it. Generally individual contracts, you think that the relationship between an employer and an employer can be an equal relationship. All of them are given the individual responsibility and the so-called free will of the worker. In the workplace, however, the free will of workers does not prevail, the free will of the employer and the mandate of the employer is the prerogative of the employer. So, speaking of which, a cleaner in a contractor who will negotiate alone with the contractor to work ten hours a day without additional pay, is she free to choose? A young worker who tells him: 'Would you do what the company demands or expect many more outside' will freely choose? A working mother with teleworking will freely decide to close her camera and not answer the boss's phone or email? In fact, the Prime Minister himself to support the bill says that this will give the worker power and that the distribution workers will have more rights. We do not know if you have asked the young people working on the two-cycles - either delivery or courier transport - but let us inform you that in particular in recent months workers in these areas have been counting dozens of accidents at work, have mourned their dead colleagues. The intensification has hit red with ten and twelve hours on the two wheels, which you now come to perpetuate and give further freedom to the immunity of the employer, so that he can force them to work in the morning until night. What will the Digital Card that you're running away from us as a medicine for all sorts of illnesses be solved? In fact, you are invoking workers who work with the most flexible relationships, and who work with two or three euros in an hourly manner. Does the Digital Card will solve the lack of protection measures when apart from irregular, endless hours, except exhaustion work under any circumstances, when it has heat, rains, when it snows? Will the Digital Card and your bill solve the complete immunity that the employer asks them to pay from their pockets gasoline, maintenance of their engines, equipment, that is to say, their own safety? Will the Digital Cards solve the compulsion that exists in the workplace to sign on empty paper the terms of work so that they can get the next day's payroll?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u69	Just quiet down, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u70	Will they resolve their standing requests for their inclusion in heavy and unhealthy, so that they will have a fixed working time, not to pay the maintenance equipment and costs, so that they will have a limited working radius? No, it just doesn't solve them, but with the overthrows of the century, it is even worsening the position of thousands of young workers who work flexibly, mispaid, it leaves them completely unarmed in the face of the interests of their employers. Of course, you could not legislate on the overthrows of the century without taking measures to limit trade union activity, give yet another blow to the right to strike. Let SYRIZA do half the job to get you to finish now. He then said Mr Tsakalotos, when the SYRIZA government voted for the restrictions on the strike, 'every obstacle to good'. We wonder: Now that the obstacles to the strike are even bigger, is it even better for the workers? Now, with this bill, the trade unions' action is like a criminal act and the strike is now happening - or you want to do it - a symbolic act. Why are you targeting the strike? So the world won't be troubled by minorities, as you say? No way! You do so that a minority of this country, a handful of exploiters, can trouble the many, the workers, the people of everyday labour. You are targeting the right to strike, because you know that the strike is not only the tens of thousands who protest with their unions, strike is the engine that goes off, the gate that is closed to the factory, the roll that goes down to the store, the erasable computer, the office that is empty in the business, the ship that is tied to the port. And that's what hurts you, but especially those you represent, bankers, shipowners, industrialists, big businessmen. The strike is not the roads that are closed to be ravaged by some people in the channels of all of them, the strike is a weapon in the hands of the workers to defend their jobs, their rights and you want to do it symbolic. They didn't tell you well. This is not Japan, where workers strike - supposedly - by working, making production and profits, of course, for the capitalist, wearing only one bracelet on the arm. You put new additional obstacles to deciding on strike. You impose the electronic vote in conjunction with an earlier SYRIZA provision on compulsory participation in the general assembly, which will decide at least 50% of the financially active members of the first trade union. You really have a great deal of nerve, when you yourself voted for electoral law for the municipalities and regions, with which you are giving the first three fifths of municipal and regional councillors, without counting on the great abstention rate, when from the first Sunday to 43%, a regional director will be elected to manage and billions and determine the lives of thousands of citizens. How do you forget, in fact, that your Government itself has taken a majority today in Parliament and has been elected with less than 40% of those who have tried to vote, which is actually much smaller, of course, if we take account of the abstention, in the whole of the people, of those on the lists? If, in the case of the top democratic process - according to you - you are predicting what you are predicting today for simple workers asking for a right, would you today be rounded to the headquarters of the government, to your chairs, to move your fingers to the people and to the workers how they will vote? In other words, your Government was elected by the "50+1" of those listed on the lists. You are not answering, because you cannot answer the substance. You are only saying that democracy has laws, such as, for example, the electoral laws that form majorities and we must observe it. That is exactly what we say to you, then, that these laws are voting for a stable majority every time, the hundreds of fifty-eight Members, who in reality do not represent more than 90 Members of Parliament, since so many of them are, in proportion, 30% that you represent, you represented the people in July 2019 on the basis of the voting lists. This is just a small sample of your bourgeois parliamentary dictatorship. And you're taking it further. You want to force clubs to count the votes of those who vote remotely. The problem here, as in all the relevant cases of remote voting, lies in who ensures, for example, that workers do not vote from the director's office or their supervisor's office over their heads or even that the manager himself does not vote for them instead of for themselves. But you still take this off with the law. Even if workers overcome all these major obstacles and finally decide strikes, then the strike mechanisms are set, since with the bill you even ban the physical presence of trade unions outside the workplace on the day of the strike to safeguard their democratic and majority decisions. What this means to simply greek means that industrialists, big businessmen will be able to face threats, blackmails, trabouts from their "man-dogs" to bring strikers or break the strike, but the union will not be able to prevent it. So you prepare the next day with strikers dragging into courts, with employer and state violence conducive to any concept of trade union freedoms. You open the way for the action of dark circles that will act provocatively and their actions will be charged to the trade unions. Already, some employers, other state mechanisms, have begun to recruit such invasion orders from the “orphan” of the criminal Golden Dawn and other black fascists of darkness and irrationalists, denies of everything, who protest against vaccines and turn them against fighters who claim their lives and their rights. Total return to 1900 before! You want to outlaw the strike right and legalize the strike. That's what it's like to be modernized! The anti-government bill that you are currently preparing to vote on is a bill as the Minister of Labour of modern times told us. If that were the case, why are working conditions going back a century and turning workers into slaves in the 21st century, with an increase instead of a reduction in working time, with sunlight work, with trade union persecution and strike? In the modern era of the huge development of technology and science, modern is to reduce working time. Modern is the seven-day, five-day, thirty-five hours. Modern is to ensure work for everyone on satisfactory remuneration and rights and not to return to the working conditions of the Middle Ages. That's why your abortion will stay on paper like so many other unfair laws before him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u71	We will proceed with the list and give the floor to Mrs Olga Kefaloyannis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u72	........................................ Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at a difficult juncture like this pandemic we are called upon to discuss a critical bill on labour issues. which we are called upon to move quickly in the period of reconstructing and the dynamic reinstatement to the recovery. At a time when nothing will be like before, under the shadow of computers and long-term consequences of the economic crisis, the challenges the next day are huge in health, education and, of course, at work. The pandemic has also changed the map of industrial relations. In the wake of this trial, workers are currently concerned about their work security which determines their personal and family welfare. On the other hand, companies need to adapt to the new conditions too, to support them in order to raise the burden of the enormous economic consequences of the pandemic. In the face of this serious double challenge, we must respond immediately and with actions. In this direction today's bill on the one hand protects and shields labour, and on the other it enriches it with modern tools and widening employment opportunities aimed at increasing productivity and competitiveness in the country, as well as strengthening social cohesion. The digital working card is therefore being established, a fixed request from the GFCM that is being met today and will serve as a guarantee for the workers to ensure the eighth hour, but also to measure additional work as an overtime job. In the years and known phenomena of employers' immunity, the government had to respond with an institutionally strong and modern control framework. That is why it is important to establish the labour inspectorate as an Independent Authority according to the standards of the ADI, which means better controls and a sound implementation of labour legislation. With regard to the harmonisation of authorised hours of overtime with the European average, that is to say, 50 hours, these are overtimes which will obviously be paid and not overtime, as some claim, but with money. It is a measure that also serves employers and workers to meet the needs of businesses, but also to strengthen workers who want to work more and to increase their income. Ladies and gentlemen, the last time we heard the Civic Opposition talking about supposedly anti-government policies, but we heard sterile opposition, without arguments, without suggestions, from a party which, when ruling, implemented the third and most harsh memorandum, with the well-known results in labour relations, in the world of work, in the middle class. We have heard them from a party that, when it governs, implemented the set-aside of working hours in large industries and in the hotel sector. We're talking about this kind of hypocrisy! And, of course, one wonders: Is the protection measures of workers against undeclared unpaid and unpaid work with the digital card? Is it an anti-government policy to extend the list of cases of invalid dismissal? Is it an anti-government policy to agree on the setting of working time at the initiative of the worker subject to the explicit condition that this arrangement cannot be blackmailed by the employer, and it is clear that if such practices lead to dismissal, it is immediately declared void? The answer is obvious: No! Because anti-Semitism policy is an anti-Semitism policy, 'but we are doing more'. Adhesive is adhesion to maintenance, in the past, in the century when he has left both the deadlocks and at the expense of the workers policies that you want to maintain. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the country is in urgent need of change, at a time when society is calling for more institutional security, the Civic Opposition chooses to play with the anxiety of the workers. The Civic Opposition, which, as a government, left behind debris and at work, chooses to plunge, again become the voice of maintenance and regression, on the altar of course of its small-party interests. But the truth, ladies and gentlemen, is inconsistent and the House today is the moment of truth. There will be a review of progress with maintenance in practice, not in words. Will the Opposition vote against the arrangements for parental leave that harmonise the working and family life of the two sexes, which are crucial arrangements for tackling the demographic problem? Will it be against sexual harassment arrangements when global dialogue and European support measures promote the achievement of race equality as a precondition for sustainable development? Will he be voting against the equalisation arrangements for workers' allowances with those of officials who are a permanent and equitable demand from workers and from the JRC itself? Will he be voting against the arrangements for teleworking, which is another flexible form of work and, regardless of exceptional health conditions, can it be attractive to some workers? Will you vote against, ladies and gentlemen, the regulations on the health and safety of workers? These are the relentless questions. Will you hide behind the lies about supposedly abolishing the eighth hour, which expressis verbis is also guaranteed in this bill, in order to vote against strong measures to protect workers, or will you choose to say 'yes' to measures that correct chronic social inequalities within work, measures that pave the way for new, quality jobs? With your vote, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, will you respond to the dilemma: will you stick to the past, or will you be written, even in the short term, on the road to the country's progress and recovery? Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much Mrs Kefaliannis. We will now give the floor to Mr Anastasiades from New Democracy and then the President of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Remocratic-Remocratic- Here, Mr Anastasiades, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the morning I have been following the discussions of colleagues from various places and also the heads of the parties. It is worth wondering how spaces that define themselves as progressive, react to every reform and every effort to modernise and adapt the country to modern perceptions and modern needs of society. It gives the impression that a party that has been ruling the place for five years is committed to practice outdated, failing to understand and coordinate with modern conditions and perceptions. And it is incomprehensible why the opposition today refuses to understand that the world is changing, that the world is evolving and insisting on using slogans and practices that were heard about forty years ago, but today no one listens to them. It is incomprehensible, too, that they are stubbornly stuck in antagonistic and dogmatic views and are unable to understand the needs of the future, that this space, which defines itself as progressive, remains entangled in its ideas and does not support the efforts to modernise the country and its adaptation to modern data. It did not support a series of legislation that brings us closer to the modern world. It has not recently supported the teleworking bill. It does not today support the labour protection bill, while it is known that there is an exploitation of the worker, there are unpaid overtime, there is employers' coercive and alleged work. What is the government introducing today in the law we are discussing to protect labour? It introduces practices applied in all advanced countries of Europe. It is confronted with modern and real workers' problems. It improves the competitiveness of enterprises, but not at the expense of workers. It supports the development and creation of new jobs. Not only is 8 hours abolished, as you claim, but, on the contrary, it is shielded and brought into order under the arbitrary conditions observed in workplaces. On the basis of the current regulation, during certain periods of time - and this is well known - when there are increased needs for the enterprise, working hours are allowed to increase by two hours and to reach ten hours a day with a corresponding reduction in working hours in other days or leave. However, a collective agreement is a prerequisite for the implementation of the arrangement. This law also applied to SYRIZA and such agreements existed in many branches of industry, such as "KONSERVICY" and such as "PAPASTRATO", which was very typically mentioned yesterday by the Minister, who was applauded by the Chief of Officerial Response during his visit. This law we are discussing today enables the worker - if he wants to - to regulate his working hours on the basis of his needs, his personal needs. It will therefore be possible for the worker - not his obligation - to ask for it, or if it has been agreed by his association, to settle his working time without more than five days per week and eight hours per day on average. Therefore, we are talking about possibility, not about an obligation to set working time, which cannot under any circumstances exceed an average of five hours a week and eight hours a day. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] This benefits workers who want to work more than a few days in order to obtain leave or work four days a week, without reducing their earnings, nor increasing their average work per week. And you want to deprive the worker of this possibility! The question 'how will it be protected in the eighth hour?' comes to answer the introduction of the Digital Labour Card. The digitalisation will record the employment of the worker, overtime or overtime. In this way, the relevant consequences will be obtained immediately: penalties to the employer if overexceeding is illegal or additional remuneration to the worker. The introduction of the Digital Labour Card is a revolution on the market, which the GSEE was asking for. It protects the worker from abuse by the employer and supports healthy competition from employers who use unfair means. In practice, there is a possibility of four days working with the protection of eight hours and five days working. The bill also ensures the protection of the working woman and strengthens her position. It confers rights on both male workers, such as paternity leave and parental leave with a subsidy from the OAED. Overtime, which may not currently exceed ninety hours in industry and twenty hours in other sectors, is in line with the average European level and can reach up to fifty hours. Given that there will be accurate recording of employment through the Electronic Working Card, it is ensured that overtime is paid. Upgrading the EIA to an Independent Labour Inspectorate, increasing redundancies for workers, taking measures to combat violence at work, taking measures on transparency in union, investigating the protection of workers against invalid redundancies are some of the measures introduced by the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill for most of it carries practices that are successfully implemented in many European countries. Protects the worker and strengthens healthy competition. SYRIZA, the Opposition, makes that he doesn't understand his positive bill. We move forward and put order in an anarchist working landscape, you remain stubbornly committed to the atrocious and dogmatic positions of the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr Anastasiades. He had notified the Prime Minister that he would speak at 12 noon. However, Mrs. Gennamas entered the Chamber earlier. So, after a brief consultation with the Prime Minister, for reasons and civil courtesy, Mrs Gennamata, who was prior to the entry, will be the lead of Mrs Gennamata.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government in the middle of its term has put its conservative seal in all areas of economic and social life. Her so-called reformist speech and propaganda can no longer hide backwards everywhere. He is in favour of a party and business elite. With its policy of dealing with pandemic, it managed to exhaust both the patience of society and the strength of the economy. The National Health System was left to its fate, to the depreciation without any support, neither of its infrastructure nor of its people who friendlyly fought the battle and set it in the front line. On the contrary, the private health sector has been strengthened, developed consciously by the government and kept covid free all this time. Still, the pandemic is still here. The new opening is taking place this year without any specific draft complete. The mistakes that we experienced last year, last summer, are repeated. The percentages of vaccinated animals are still low compared to our expectations and compared to what is happening in the rest of Europe. Of course, you all understand that the confusion and insecurity that existed in Greek society has been strengthened especially since the latest developments around AstraZeneca and the Commission's communications. Mr. Mitsotakis, your government has to give answers, it's not Pontius Pilate. So you need to explain today from this Step to the Greek people because and with what criteria AstraZeneca has been granted to these age groups and what new scientific data the Commission has changed its proposal. The responsibility is too great. Is your decision to grant AstraZeneca to open the activities in the previous period that seemed to have been an urgent need for your government? We need you to tell us now. We ask for specific answers. Vaccination requires a relationship of trust between the citizen and the state, and that confidence is undermined by your mistakes and regressions. Don't look for another person in charge. You have a great responsibility for what is happening to the Greek people today in relation to vaccination. And it's our only solution to get to the long-lived freedom to get to immunity. I shall now refer to the economy. Small and medium-sized suffocation. Aid for the pandemic was channelled to large businesses, to good bank customers, to those who were already strong. You drive, Mr Mitsotakis, to a model of cheap labour, buttocks and mass unemployment. Even this very great opportunity of the Recovery Fund is at risk of being lost. I'm not talking about approval or not. I'm talking about where the Recovery Fund goes, what's the targeting, what's the development for? Because you have presented a project that is not the result of dialogue, which is not the result of the needs of the Greek society, of each region, as you had to do, and above all does not have the main aim of changing the production model. You continue on the same line, imports and consumption. Who wins all this? The middlemen and the big ones and up there are hanging and all your program and all your design even today's bill we're talking about. Of course, the word reform has become synonymous with insecurity. In the government, rushfets and clienteles are run by the public. Local government is locked in your overconcentration. Once again you just want to make it the long hand of the state. For the Government of New Democracy, even these modern challenges of digital change and climate change are nothing more than an opportunity for derogating processes. Heavy crime is on the rise. The neighborhoods have become a clear vineyard in the gangs. Your Government has shaken the sense of security of every Greek family. And it is now clear that the famous doctrine of law and order for you only concerns the treatment of students and protesters. I come to national issues. I have said it too many times and I will repeat it today. The huge national strategy deficit we have today on your own responsibility, Prime Minister, is responsible for the fact that Turkey's reform and provocativeness and aggression cannot be addressed. And the government ought to have made it clear to both the European Union and our allies and within the country that it will not give its vote on a positive agenda with Turkey without there being any specific obligations and obligations of that country towards us, with regard to international law, with its accession to the law of the sea, with respect for individual rights, with stability and peace in the wider region, a new Helsinki, with a few words that are necessary today as ever. So we do not know what you intend to do. We do not know exactly what you have discussed with Mr Erdogan. We do not have enough of the polar leaks for the good climate that the next day are cancelled by our airspace breaches. We have asked and asked for detailed information from the parties in this House about the content of the discussions and the prospects, how we will proceed from now on. Ladies and gentlemen, this famous working bill is simply another example of government's conservative policy. It deregulations labour relations, levelles out labour rights, undermines collective agreements, strengthens the unconscious employers, exposes labour law, turns us to the age of individual contracts and, of course, weakens the control mechanisms in the labour market in which immunity is ruled. Delete monocombs fairly acquired with struggles for decades. We're going backwards, and of course you're paying for the election bills. We had heard you electionally announcing about what you are currently enacting at the BSE conventions. It is clear that we have shown this to date in every way, and I repeat it, and I have said so in the whole of our group, the Change Movement is absolutely against these regulations, standing at the side of the world of work. We will not stop inside and outside this House claiming the restoration of workers' rights, but also of trade liberties. What, then, is the New Democracy Government doing today? Instead of preparing the country's human potential with a really new arrangement for what comes in the robotic and digital age, the artificial intelligence that pandemic worked as a catalyst, and all of this is coming much faster, tomorrow is already here and we had to prepare ourselves in this direction, you drive, your government, in a fully-regulated job, unregulated flexibility, what the unregulated employer who leads to unfair competition in the labour market, because they are not all employers in the same bag, four-hour and eight-hour job and break in between. They'll wait back at the warehouse a couple of hours a day, and a couple hours whenever the employer wants. And if he says he's going to go away, who's gonna protect him? Business still on Sundays, of course. It bothered you when I said the doctrine of half a job, half a wage, but there it was in practice. Once again, unfortunately, we are right. Instead of focusing on the training and training of workers in the new technologies, you go on supporting, supposedly, the competitiveness of the cheap partition. The minimum wage remains fixed and, of course, as I have said before, sectoral collective agreements are also being undermined. And you do not expect that in this kind of competition there are very important competitors around us who will always have much cheaper pay than us. But we should be targeting. Instead of implementing policies that give way and create jobs for the unemployed you are only interested in the profits of the powerful. Why am I saying that? Because it is very simple when the worker works to meet the needs of a ten-hour business without overtime you understand that the company's needs for recruitment are being reduced and therefore the expectations and hopes of the unemployed are limited that they can eventually be found in production. Instead of supporting the reconciliation of family and working life - we have heard a lot of talk about it - you instead of taking additional measures to support the family, the new couples to deal with the demographics, which may have become worse shorter than this country's own debt, you come with your regulations and create even greater problems in the family than those who are now working in this place. So instead of reconciliation work with the family, instead of taking demographic measures, your first choice was to support doubtful quality and directional conferences that all the history of subnatality and demographics put it back on the woman's back and back. So let us leave these for civil liability in words. We're waiting here for actions. It is not the responsibility of the woman alone, it is not the responsibility of the woman, either for the inheritability or for the demographic situation. Take real measures now! Enough with the words, enough with the propaganda. We want actions. At a time when new technologies facilitate the debate on the reduction of working time, we are going to opposite directions. They are already being tested in Europe at an experimental stage. And, of course, instead of supporting the social dialogue to find solutions to all of this, in the new challenges of the new era, you are calling the unions an enemy. And the greatest hypocrisy? You come to the young people who live in insecurity, who suffer from unemployment, from low pay, from black work, who are tested daily and who judge whether they will stay here or leave and future generations, and you tell them: "Come on, you will take a three-day vacation. You will work four days, no overtime, and then you will go on a three-day holiday." With what money will they do that, Mr. Mitsotakis? Even if the employers give them the day off they're owed the day off, they don't pay bills, they don't pay obligations, they don't pay a vacation, they don't pay a trip. Are we kidding each other and making fun of the new generation? [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the President of the Movement for Change Mrs. Fotini (Phot) Genuines is ringing.]] Mr President, as you can see this time, I will need more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u77	Time is at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much. The results of the policies so far are already appallingly reflected in the report of the Institute for Labour of the GFCM. We have the second highest percentage of workers in the European Union working with extended working hours. We have the highest percentage of workers in the European Union working on weekends. And you tell them now that it is reform to work on Sundays too. Most of us have! We have poverty wages. 50% of employees in Greece work with wages below EUR 800. In 2020, the average wage in Greece decreased by 2.5%, while in the Eurozone by 1%. And we don't take into account these five hundred thousand workers who have made them work with 534 and you didn't care about their obligations and how to deal with them. The lowest wage in Greece has the fifth lowest purchasing power in the European Union and remains steadfast. And you still keep him there. So do you understand with the working bill where this situation is going? Only worse can be done. And the worst of all, Prime Minister, is that you are trying to make the situation look good, to twist the truth once again, and you and your members who are taking the floor and all of them, of course, the media, who are trying to say how good the bill is, and reformist, and progressive, and how he cares about the development of this country. Let's get them one by one. You're supporting, you're telling us, the worker. The reality is that you legalise the work jungle and favour unaccompanied employers. You're protecting, you're telling us, the work. The reality is that you are blocking the right of strike and the free exercise of trade union activity. It is, you tell us, European practices that you are following. But throughout Europe, Prime Minister, new protection policies are being sought and promoted in the very opposite direction to what you are doing. I am also making the announcement from the European Socialists, a statement of support for our positions and a contrast with the bill you are promoting. [[At this point the President of the Movement of Change Mr. Fotini (Phot) Gennamata presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] And it is not only the European socialists in this direction, but also on the other side of the Atlantic, that President Biden has already promoted taxation on large wealth and multinationals, that it promotes increasing public investment that creates new jobs for full employment, that supports the workers' available income and that the minimum wage is increased, that the social state is strengthening to hit the inequalities that have been widened over recent years and that it promotes new regulations for the workers' response to technological developments. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the answers to social democracy. They are our answers, our own proposals, our real progressive reforms for the exit from the double crisis, the health and economic crisis that our country is facing. Furthermore, increasing the minimum wage now through the National General Collective Convention by the social partners with strong mechanisms of control at the Ministry of Labour and the network of protection of workers with teleworking and workers on platforms that remain outside all regulations. The world is changing, gentlemen of the New Democracy and Prime Minister, but it's changing towards progress, it's not changing to the maintenance that you take us. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat that we are across and voting against the bill and articles that form the core of government policy. You also have the courage to come and to put us in the dilemma of whether we will vote on proposals that apply European directives and make arrangements that we have been pushing forward for months and we are asking for the government to bring forward. Look, we're not blue populists like you. We will vote on them. We are a party with clear positions, not wrestling from here, when from there. We are not the target of political life. We have history, we have roots, we have a clear political stigma and very specific proposals that are progressive about what needs to be done today in the country. Irrespective of this, if they are used by you as a cover to hide the hideout of the bill, these positive arrangements we have been asking for months now will naturally be voting on. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] It is our request, ladies and gentlemen of the Government since February, that the Convention against Violence and Sexual Harassment be ratified at the workplace, but since the problems have arisen, the Greek "Me Too" government has become aware when it was found on the back with the Lingnadis case and now comes and moves us hand in hand. It is our request for months now to take measures to protect workers with teleworking, with public debates, with public proposals on what needs to be done independently if the government, as I said before, did not include all the regulations, especially for workers on the platforms. It's our article to n. 3846/2010 the digital working card, which is the only insurance policy for the worker and, of course, pretextfully brings it back to the government because it has already informed us that it will only be applied pilots, goes to the bells. Before I close, I particularly want to refer to four points which are the heart of the bill, four points with a central objective: to strengthen only the strong one and leave the worker without protection, without rights, unsafe and with low wages. It's four issues that work cumulatively. Firstly, the collective agreement is being removed as a prerequisite for the adjustment of working time, i.e. the worker, in short, remains alone to negotiate with the employer. In practice, there will be no more eight hours, we will go for ten hours and overtime, and this provision is a challenge, and it also opposes even the Scientific Council of Parliament, which points out that there is no equal bargaining between the individual worker and the employer, but you do not listen to all this. You speak only with the means and tell them what to say about you. It's all about it. Secondly, redundancies are facilitated, even those declared illegal by the court. The message is to the employee that if you're not good with the employer you're going to leave. It's over, there's no other perspective. Even if you are vindicated by the courts, you will not be re-entered, the illegal employer will give more to it, and this will close his illegality. It is illegal and immoral, but it will be able to do so by your own intervention. Thirdly, the strike is blocked and the protection of trade union officials is abolished. This is the real objective, not as you say or should be the balance between the right to strike and the needs of the whole society. No. No. No. No. No. PASOK 1264, which is still the most liberal in Europe today. And do you know why these laws and historically these really progressive PASOK reforms lasted for all these decades and did not dare to hurt them in the stone years of memoranda and austerity? Because they are reforms that were not punishable by five wise or five powerful, but came from collective work, defrauded the needs of society, spoke with the directly concerned, co-formulated, created alliances. So the country goes ahead, this means national popular unity, the unity of productive powers and the agreement on such progressive reforms that really change the place and open new horizons for the new generation of our country. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] But you're too far away from these goals because you just can't get over what you really are. Fourthly, the State’s control mechanisms are completely weakened. With a deep hypocritical logic, the government tells the worker: "You will not be supported by the trade unionist because I will fire him and he will not be protected, you will not be paid, you will be negotiated by yourself, you will be working for ten hours, you will not get the day off, you will be given the day off, you will not be re-entered, if you are entitled to the courts and further" - the cherry is coming, this is the fourth arrangement - "Don't expect anything from the state because we will not protect you." Responsibility leaves the Ministry of Labour, leaves us and the Labour Inspectorate becomes an Independent Authority. Each Minister will have no responsibility for what is happening on the labour market. Of course, he will appoint the administration of the independent authority, do not do what they want on his own, underneath they will dictate the work, but they will not be exposed directly, and he will broadly dictate what the market of the powerfuls wants. No hope, then, for the worker. That is why I said at the outset that all these arrangements are linked to each other, creating a very well thought out intervention, ruthless and targeted. So they demand that the worker bend his head, accept everything and submit it. In the face of this policy, therefore, any citizen who wants to say or declare or feel progressive cannot remain invincible and silent, no one is entitled to silence or hide in front of these developments. This is where we're all judged. We on the front line stood against our principles, our values, on the path of PASOK, the democratic progressive process with an active presence in the mobilisations, with an active presence in dozens of workplaces with public dialogue, with almost all the labour centres in the country and if today this government majority finally says 'yes' in this bill we, the Change Movement, and I personally commit that we will abolish all these arrangements once the opportunity is found with the change of political relations. Political relationships are starting to change, Mr. Mitsotakis. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] We in the Change Movement are opening a new path, the path of new change, of course through contributors, and of preservation and populism, a road away from the failed logic of austerity, the recipes of the dissolution of the social state, the enlargement of inequalities, the deregulation of labour, a road away from the voices of demagogy, the eases that have no results and have been judged, a path that we are forged, not by ourselves, but by the productive forces of this place, on the basis of the new 'green' social contract that has in the heart a new productive model for the country that has centred on the environment and man, this is the future of our country and we will achieve it. We will implement this new change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Gennamas. Now, after the Step is settled, the Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I am pleased to see more Members present at the sitting, as the normality of the parliamentary procedure is gradually restored. Madam Gennamata, on the wider issues outside the bill, which you have raised in your protagonists, I reserve my answer to my denology, including the issue of the vaccination procedure in our country. Allow me to make just one introductory remark. Listening to you, I heard a crescendo of zeroing, devotion with a flash of outdated clichés. It's all black in the country. It's all black in the bill. I was under the impression that I wasn't listening to you, but that I was listening to Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u81	Well, you've told us this before.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u82	I must give you a friendly advice: between the original and the copy, the original will always be chosen by the citizens. That, however, is a matter for you. You'll solve it between you two.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u83	Blowed up, Prime Minister. Find something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u84	Mrs. Gennamas, after you chose to speak before me, you will also hear the criticism. Respect the parliamentary procedures. You'll talk then. How different you were today from Mr Tsipras let the citizens judge it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u85	Let this be judged by the Greek people. You answer what I asked you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, I begin with an image of the present, which was at the same time an image of the past, of the recent, but also of the superior. Today, in Greece, the employment of one out of four workers is not declared or partly declared, with the result that it is less paid and less paid than it is entitled to. 63% of differences in workplaces relate to the payment of accrued and unpaid overtime. Six hundred thousand workers continue to be regarded as underpaid by employees, while professionals in services that are increasingly widespread, such as courier services, still have neither a working framework nor a special protection. At the same time, all kinds of discrimination are growing, but there are no rights that apply everywhere, as can one himself define his working time on the basis of the needs of his life. No provision now exists in our labour law for changes coming from tomorrow, such as teleworking or today's problems, such as the role of the two parents in bringing up children. Of course, in recent years, the participation of both women and young people in employment has declined, and this is not only a question of developing and indebtedness in society towards the new generation, but also a question of justice. Workers and others, however, are upset by sudden strikes, which, although often illegal, are eventually made or carried out by few at the expense of many. It is no coincidence that last week participation in the public transport strike ranged from 10% to 20% per body. The capital, however, paralyzed, because that is how one, two, ten employees, decided. While - supposedly - the enemy was government, eventually, the victims were again citizens, the sick person who wanted to go to the doctor or the housewife who wanted to go shopping. What I have just described, yes, could be called a market jungle or a working middle-aged, according to the well-known slogans that you so comfortably and jointly mixed up. That is why the new law comes to change this situation for the first time since 1982. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] He sets rules in the jungle and exceeds the middle ages. It responds to atrocities of the past, to challenges of the present, but also to demands of the future. Those who question him prove to be supporters of the maintenance and establishment of a regime that they themselves denounce. With his hundred and twenty - nine articles, the bill now builds a modern working environment. It is no coincidence that it begins by ratifying two of the most comprehensive conventions of the International Labour Organisation, in the scope of which most of its regulations, Convention 187, on health and safety at work and Convention 190, to deal with violence and harassment at work. I think that the titles alone are sufficient to state its content and importance. These guidelines, ladies and gentlemen, are all in the service of the ten bold areas under way. They are areas that shield workers, making clear and transparent relations with the employer. It is areas that enable the forces of production alone to define the conditions for their cooperation to be made more effective, but it is also areas that at last help the national economy, but also the Greek society to meet with the rapid pace of the rest of Europe, as well as with the whole of our time. Section one, the digital working card, which the worker will be hitting, at the same time hitting black work and undeclared overtime, as well as tax evasion. Because from now on, his hours of work will be recorded in real time and without intermittent on the platform of the Ministry of Labour. It is thus abolished from all arbitraryness and from all sides. This is a measure that was a constant request from the GFCM, it has indeed been piloted by PASOK, but now it is becoming a tangible reality for the whole labour market, Mrs Gennamas, and not just for its pilot implementation. This reform is a framework for the reconstruction of the Labour Inspectorate. I wonder why that reaction, so, Mrs Gennamas. Because it is wrong that the Labour Inspectorate ceases to belong to the Minister concerned and is upgraded to an independent authority, such as the OLAF and the National Transparency Authority, strengthened by means and personnel. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Are we breaking some shops that had been set up in the Labour Inspectorate? Is that why you're so upset about this change?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u87	I'll answer the dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u88	It will do audits, cross-checking the digital card data with the requirements, for example, prized or licensed, and henceforth its findings will form the objective basis for resolving any dispute, even if it is finally brought to the courts. Change third: The possibility for each worker to settle his own working time. So, if he wishes, he will be able to work up to two hours longer. These will be translated into an additional license so that he can better regulate his personal needs. In this way, an operation will be able to work more strongly when needed. But even the worker will be able to keep free for up to three days a week. It is something that favours seasonal jobs, but it also facilitates large categories of workers. Fourth intervention: The equation of workers with employees in compensation for dismissal. I imagine you know when the existing framework applies. A decree of 1920, I repeat, a decree of 1920 provided that for the first ones it would cover a few instalments, while for the latter it would correspond to their annual earnings. It took a hundred years to restore this injustice, as well as to transfer the burden of proving the dismissal to the employer. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So all this changes from a two-year centre-right government, which proves to be more progressive than the left slogans of a century! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Section 5: Special care for tens of thousands of workers in services provided by digital platforms, a sector that is constantly expanding and now requiring its own rules. So, from now on, the self-employed children of the couriers and delivers will have protective helmets and vehicles to move from their companies and operate like all other insurance workers and if they want to do so by trade union representation. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] A new employment field is gaining its own regulatory framework. The sixth reform shall establish for the first time a paternity leave of 14 days with remuneration. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I imagine you are aware that it is even longer than the ten days of the relevant European Directive. The new father will be protected from dismissal for a six-month period. A four-month parental leave is also introduced with a subsidy in the first two months for both parents, while women are protected against violence and harassment. Dismissal of a pregnant or a new mother is prohibited. Such a ban extends to the adoption of a child, as is the case in the case of parental leave. Ladies and gentlemen, the next initiative harmonises the number of overtime with European data. Thus, legal extra employment is increased to a hundred and fifty hours a year, with similar increases in pay for the workers. On the opposite, when this threshold is exceeded, overtime will be compensated on the basis of 120% of the normal payroll, instead of 80% today. What's that supposed to mean? Additional production and profits from it is right to involve those who have contributed to their creation. Eighth innovation brings Greece first and foremost into the legislation on teleworking. This will only be compulsory for reasons of public health, with the infrastructure concerned always burdening the employer, but, where applicable, it will accompany the right to disconnect, as is already the case in France and Spain. The employer will not be able to work, to be bothered by a permanent e-mail worker from outside the working hours. The technical procedures are also laid down to ensure that electronic communication between an employer and a worker is carried out automatically after the completion of the work. And if this last regulation relates to an issue that comes from tomorrow, the next one closes a wound from yesterday. There will henceforth be Sundays for all the companies in Greece which operate in the rest of Europe, especially in the Mediterranean countries. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The relevant list is being expanded. However, the rights of workers remain stable. Their remuneration is increased by 75% and each working day will be replaced by one more day of rest in the following week. It is one of the most enterprising in Europe. The dilemma of the major sectors completes democratic transparency in today's dark maze of trade unionism by means of measures which bring it back to its true role, namely, the defence of the interests of workers with valves that prevent the abuse of mobilisations, which ultimately marginalises the fair demands of trade unionists, but also predicts that the claims of a group of citizens should not turn against the rest. Because the public interest is in everyone's interest. With the new context, when a strike is rejected by the court, he will not be able to return from the window with another secondary union decision. In other words, the strike is separated from illegality. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And yes, there will always be security personnel at the utilities. The municipalities will not be drowned in the trash, not all citizens will be left without commuting when a union claims a request. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But mobilisation itself should be decided on by involving workers and not by closed offices. On the other hand, the return of the trade unions to genuinely, in their actual duties, will eventually upgrade themselves as a consistent social partner. The ban on employers or even from the parties will prevent their manipulation and the matching - I am sure you will agree - of their privileges with those of the pregnant worker will exclude their conversion into a separate caste among their colleagues and the reinstatement of trade unionists into osmosis with society will detached them from their current bureaucratic isolation. All of this complements the picture we want for the world of work, with the employee not losing half a salary a month from overtime that is not recognized. A worker studying at the same time should be able to keep her free on Friday, if she wants and be able to denounce fearlessly anyone who harasss her in the office. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The craftsman receives full compensation in case he leaves work, but also in case of the permanent dealer being now a regular employee, securely, with rights, with insurance. In the same image, whoever or whoever locks his computer, his screen, once his work is done from a distance, and the couples will have greater parental permission, the father, in fact, will, for the first time. And they will all be covered by a strong independent authority that electronically controls legality in the workplace and all of them will meet unionists next to them, not in front of the ships, when they start for a few holidays. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because the blocks on the catapults are now turning into a society's catapult against its enemies. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The conclusion, then, is that, yes, we are discussing a draft law that is truly modernisation. The Minister for Labour has often asked you to answer which of the current provisions by the government is not, I repeat, applied to the vast majority of European countries and, above all, to countries such as Portugal and Spain where the Left is confronted. It is a bill that at its core is charismatic, as with the digital working card it guarantees, for the first time, the right pay for overtime and even introduces additional rights, especially for women. It equates workers with employees and cares for those working in dynamic jobs. It is a bill of deep development, because it allows work to monitor the economy, because it increases productivity by reducing bureaucracy and restoring distinct roles, because workers must be protected in order to yield more for themselves and the national economy and, yes, businesses need flexibility so that their own stagnation does not have any effect on employment, while trade unions must fight for the insecure and insecure and not just to be safe themselves. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is no accident that the new framework follows the precedent, which is almost forty years of life, nor has it been called upon to solve any loose ends which, as we have seen, are still back in 1920. If something can be criticized for it is that we have been late to move on with this central reform which, of course, is clearly predicted in our election programme. However, it had to be thoroughly studied and manifested at the right time. And let me remember a sentence by John Kennedy: 'T, the 'Water Hot', you make it when it's sunshine'. So it may be that the pathogens of work may have their roots in the deep past. They put and fell over time, but that doesn't mean some people stopped reading today with their glasses yesterday. They say so themselves, when they face the institution of overtime or Sunday employment as if there are conditions in Greece today in the industrial revolution of the 19th century or when they are now seeing galleys from the distant past, and this is the most painless aspect of the criticism of the opposition. The anachronization. Because the other one is worse. And it's the raw lie. Not the simple reading of the present with dogmas and chips from the past, but the conscious distortion of the truth at the moment, with slogans of terror that may not have content but produce impressions and which are emanating from the same mouths that were supposedly raised two years ago by the New Democracy on the seven days of work. Today, of course, we are talking about four days' work, Mr Tsipras, but for you it is not important to deny your words, it is only enough for you to have the poison you are sowing. Because, then, many myths have moved and many demagogy has been spread to confuse, I respond in a few words to the basic make news that has been heard. Myth of first emblematic: Remove eight hours. Anyone who says so will dismantle the Greek language. Because the protection of the eighth is expressly referred to in Article 55 of the bill. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But those who say so also dismantle the political logic, because the eighth hour is explicitly provided for in the European Social Charter. Therefore, it cannot be called into question by any country - member of the European Union. This can only be changed if a state abandons Europe. Think, then, who once flirted with this idea. Myth Two: Overtime will be paid with the day off. Whoever's calling this is getting off the truth. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Overtime will be paid with increased pay, as now, always with the agreement of the worker. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] There are black overtime, indeed, but these are spent for propaganda construction in the workshops in Koumoundouros.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u89	We've been doing fine so far, we're on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u90	And since you are consciously insisting on distorting and confusing overtime with the adjustment of working time, I wonder if there is asymmetry in individual contracts in the negotiating power between employees and employers, should it not apply to overtime? Why is it bothering you one and not the other? Myth third: the flexible hour is coming. The people who say that accepted it. Only thirty years have elapsed, because so much is the case, its amendments have the signatures of Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou and Mr Ragosi. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] It's hard to find yourself in front of the front line, next to your Chief, when you've done exactly the opposite of what you're entering today. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] Mr. Ragossi, I see Mr. Ragosi today, but you stayed. You should also tell us about the parties' loans, because I would remind you that you were a PASOK secretary. Tell us about them, how bad we did. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, Mr Tsipras, I imagine you remember that the flexible working hours have been fully implemented on SYRIZA, as is now the case in tourism and in dozens of businesses on the basis of the contracts with workers today. The record, then, is only the opposition. And the epilogue of political mythology: individual contracts are established. It is a little difficult to establish something that is already established, because individual contracts exist, as there are collective agreements, and the new law merely extends a European directive that was passed on to SYRIZA with Minister at the time, Mrs Ahtsoglou. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So she'll explain to you if it's right. But you can, if you want, get ideas from elsewhere. Ask your friends, Podemos, if you're still talking to them, who also established it long ago in Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, I have confined myself only to redeeming a few complaints of opposition, and I certainly did not comment on what is being done with guilt. I did not hear you say a word about the digital card and paternity leave, about protection against violence at the workplace, about caring for the professions of the time, about the workers, about additional armour on arbitrary redundancies. Our opponents, you see, are absolutely loyal to the doctrine 'never mention what is not in the interests'. Of course, the motto "stop working only clocks" is smart. It's a little old, of course. Life has answered that there are stopped watches that always say at the same time. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because the new problems are not solved by old arguments. It would therefore be more appropriate if, for the mother of the battles, the opposition was talking about the grandmother of the battles and she called her few supporters, no longer working fathers, but laborgirls. At least, that would seem the same as her day. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I am, however, returning to the substance of the bill, because I really believe that in its content the genuinely progressive thought of the forces of true maintenance, which may be unworthy of saying friends of progress, is opposed, but any progress will mean bold changes. And it is known that changes have had, have and will always have several enemies. Can't you see how much the world changes around us? The linear course of "students, careers, retirement" is questioned and in place there is a fluid course, which depends increasingly on demographic changes, on the development of technology, on the skills that a job market that is changing constantly seeks, without anyone being able to predict what the career of our young people will be in ten years. That is all we should be talking about in this Chamber. So in a world where the very nature of work is changing, it is necessary to follow it and its regulatory environment, but always serving three parallel and simultaneous directions: the flexibility of entrepreneurship that increases the wealth produced and jobs, the protection and the mobilisation of the worker so that he can proceed with the country and finally, the state's guarantee that its rules will invest in the common effort so that the common result can then be fairly distributed. This concept goes through today's bill, offering flexibility and security, security and flexibility to the two poles of the world of work, synchronising the national framework with the international environment so that it can finally be competitive and promoting those conditions that create the conditions for increasing national income, then following its diffusion throughout society. Because it is not our goal for work to yield little, but for workers to come back to them, for work, for much to be done to everyone. And the protection of workers is a constant priority. That is why we add six more cases to it which exclude its unlawful dismissal. Whether it is exercising its rights or sensitive periods such as that of parental care. We are arming him with solutions at the present for the dynamics of the platforms, but also for the future of cooperation. Most importantly, however, we give the worker and the worker the opportunity to shape his own life. Because the worker, for us, was never a mere productive unit, is an autonomous personality. After all, this is also a fundamental difference between us and our opponents, who insist on interpreting the world with isotopic shapes that eventually hide the truth. Thus, within the general concept of the people, the citizen is eventually lost and within the masturbations of the analgesic bosses the tectonic changes that have taken place in the global production process disappear. It is not by chance, therefore, that our view of the role of trade unionism is different. We want him to be democratic. Some of the others want him feudal. From now on, the trade unions will have the necessary facilities, but not general immunity, even for offences such as rape or sexual harassment. They will have identity, but also responsibility if they cause damage to society. They will be invited to serve the work protection rather than perpetuate the bureaucratic patronage. At least in this Chamber, we have to agree on the basics again. The unions exist for their members, not for the parties. The trade unions also exist for workers and not for trade unions. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think that they highlight the political content of the bill. At the same time, however, they describe both opposite approaches, those who support it on the one hand and those who fight it on the other. This is indeed a big, chaotic policy, but also an ideological difference, which will certainly be tested in practice. In the public consultation, which took precedence and which, at the Minister's initiative, has been extensive, I distinguish the strong reservations of BSE, but also the agreement of the EU and the women's organisations. This combination may also give the measure of the balanced direction of the changes we are proposing today. Above all, however, I would like to insist on the new spirit that runs them by introducing a culture of healthy coexistence of all the working forces, which is more than any other reform of the Digital Card, which now gives them clear roles to all, to the worker, to the employer and to the state that oversees the whole process. That is why I support labour reform because it promotes a sense of common purpose in all productive forces. It is a need for the country after a decade of enthusiasm. It is a debt to the new generation that should finally meet many good jobs in a decent and fair working environment. But there is also a national response to the juncture, as for sixteen months Greece has protected income and employment from pandemic and now has to win the growth bet with a new momentum. Besides, another feature of the bill is its potential character. For example, the Greek labour market, due to a small size of enterprises, actually has many individual contracts, which leave room for arbitrariness. This is what happens today when we talk about courier transport, for example. That is why the new framework sets out rules. Tomorrow, collective agreements can be established in these sectors. It is something I personally support. And it will certainly arise as the economy grows and inevitably increase the demand for work. And on this exciting journey of regeneration, our homeland will have as guide the National Plan "Greece 2.0", the third pillar of which is about the work and cohesion of society, more than EUR 5 billion, EUR 5 billion of European resources, which will be able to do much more with the private funds that will mobilise. They will finance dozens of actions, of which six specifically will focus solely on building and supporting the framework we are now legislating on. We are talking about a multi-level, parallel and coherent path towards tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end by asking the following questions: It is true, Mr Tsipras, but also Mrs Gennamata - and I think I can go to the opposition as a whole - that you denounced the bill before it even came into public consultation, that you rushed to protest against it, and that was still in Parliament. And today I see that you insist not to talk about his articles, but about the make news that you made in their place. I shall not give up, however, on an attempt to create an elementary cross-party consensus on a number of reasonable changes which reality itself calls for. So I ask you, Mrs Gennamas, and Mr Tsipras: will you vote even now on the digital card that abolishes the 'black' and alleged work? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Will you vote for the professional restoration - insurance for the couriers?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u91	You tell us why you won't vote...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u92	Will you vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u93	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u94	Here, here, here, to me, you'll answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u95	Will you vote for the workers' equation with the employees? Will you support the expansion of cases which invalidate dismissal? I do not imagine that you will deny the European clauses against violence and harassment, in favour of health and safety at work. Will you say 'yes' or will you say 'no' to introducing paid paternity leave in Greece, four months parental leave for both parents? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Do you ultimately surprise us and deny us the ban on the discharge of the new father, like any worker carrying out his duties? And finally, do you agree or disagree with the fact that anyone who works from a distance has the right to be disconnected from work when he finishes working hours? I must point out that one hundred and twenty-seven articles of the bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u96	Your MEPs have just voted!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u97	Please, there have been no holidays so far, it is time to stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u98	I imagine your Chief has the ability to answer these questions unless you want to substitute him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u99	Withdrawal of the rights!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u100	All right, please, let's keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u101	But, Mr. Tsipras and Mrs. Genemas, I'll make it easier for you. I will make a request for a roll-call vote for all the articles in the bill, for all, for all! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In order to take over your names and clearly your responsibilities and show your hypocrisy and at the end see how many of the articles in the bill you will have voted on. The mother of all battles will eventually end up, when we make the account, having voted for two in three of the articles we have tabled, because so hypocrites you are, unless you choose again, of course, the way out of the Chamber. You've been used to it lately. [[Upright Members of the New Democracy applaud vividly and protractedly]] I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u102	But you've been coming in second since this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u103	The speaker's over, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u104	I am closing with a very interesting and prophetic text that has come to us since 1992. Listen to it, it is interesting: "Standardistic in the prospect of friendly development is the introduction of new technologies to work and its element is" - be careful! - 'the new organization of the time of production. It is therefore not only the demand for reduced working hours, because the new era - in 1992 -'strengthening alternative forms of employment, flexible hours and work through terminal' - that was not said by Thatcher - 'these must therefore focus on the Left's proposals, abandoning the sterile defence of the old times'. And the author also wrote: "The left has remained a child of the great industry and has been caught in the exclusive occupation with those of the citizens who have evaded from their position in the production process". Who signed, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras, three years after you entered the youth of the Communist Party the year that this bold text fell? A great European leftist and reformist, Michael Papayannakis, whose thought I think is now being met with most of the choices of this bill. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And sometimes I wonder where this enlightened Left has gone, which could understand the changes of the world in the light of real progress and not through the strangles of another era. We are therefore abolishing outdated ideological borders and redesigning the arc of forces of refreshing breath and genuine progressive act. So I urge you to vote - because you will be forced to do so - positively so that Greece will also have an institutional working environment worthy of its role in the 21st century, modern and fair, social and developmental, effective, but always fair. A framework that not only changes the rules of the old game, but also their own players, unleashing the world of production as a whole, pushing all the factors of the economy and above all arming our country's workers with new power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u105	I would like to say to you that they have already spoken a hundred and ninety-five Members in this dense three-day period. Immediately after the speech Mr Alexis Tsipras has President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to see the House after a long time with the presence of Members of Parliament, even though not in full composition. I was, of course, pleased to see Mr Mitsotakis present even to read out a speech of more than 50 minutes, obviously written by two different scholars, because they were constantly repeating themselves. It is not wrong for two scholars to write, provided one at the end does the rendezvous and you do not always say the same, because you are bored with us. (Applause from the SYRIZA wing) Mr. Mitsotakis allegedly tried to restore the myths in a speech prior to manufactured arguments, but in reality he restored labour law and social justice, trying to raise emotions of social automation and create a picture of absolute division for the Greek society. However, I was pleased that he even came to present prefabricated arguments, even without being able to hide his irritation about the fact that he is now deeply isolated in the House with all the parties to it. He did not hide it from his attack from the first minute of his speech against his political opponents, especially Mrs. But he came here! This is progress for our democracy, for Mr Mitsotakis's democracy. He's here! Because in recent times you have been avoiding, Mr Mitsotakis, such as the devil the lavender, to come here and answer the questions I ask you. Why is that? Don't you have any arguments? Do you despise the living parliamentary dialogue? Or are you afraid of the judge for your party's debts, so do you not come to answer? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But you probably don't come because you think that's how you'll manage to avoid publicity about the questions I'm asking you. But you know what? The point is, I don't do it. Life itself puts them, our fellow citizens talk about them in the cafés, our fellow citizens read them on social media, no matter how they try to hide them from the well-paid media. Therefore, it is unjust to try to fade the voice of your political opponents. You are not able to fade the voice of Officer Opposition, as you are not able to fade the voice of society. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That is why I would advise you not to try this again, because you and your commissioners are being exposed. Because - you know something - it's not easy in our time, in the time of technology, in 2021 in our country to hide strong truths. These truths are - to use a great phrase of yours - visible to the naked eye! Unlike the coronary, which you had the opportunity to make a global revelation the other day, it is not visible by the naked eye. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Truths, however, are visible through the naked eye and it is in vain that you try to seduce those who speak the truths may also hide them. How can you hide in the hundreds of thousands of families who are struggling today when their children are taking pan-Hellenic tests, that you have decided this year, in the most difficult year, to extend a wire that will keep tens of thousands of children away from their dream, the introduction to a school of a Higher Educational Foundation in our country? How can you hide from merchants, small and medium-sized businessmen, that by your bankruptcy law many of them will lose everything and may be found on the five streets? How can you hide that this year, when, after the pandemic, everyone realised the value of the National Health System, you do not go to any reinforcement of public hospitals, but only restore your same outdated concepts and suggestions for public-private partnerships in public hospitals? How to hide from the free professionals and the self-employed who are persecuted every day by collectors who are troubled and chasing them for a few hundreds of euros and who are deprived of insurance and tax information for their businesses, that you can without any impact of loading the Greek taxpayer every year with EUR 30 million each, while your party has reached EUR 340 million and is not coming after you? How can you hide all this? And how can it be hidden that we are governed by a party bankrupt and financially, but also morally, a party that is the largest strategic bad payer that has passed through this country and indeed a poor payer at the expense of the public interest. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It cannot be concealed, Mr Mitsotakis, that you personally are the high priest of populism and false promises of unreliableness and phantomism. Since you personally committed yourself to the resolution of your party's finances and instead charged the Greek taxpayer with tens of millions of euros. How can they hide all this? And above all, fear, despair, contempt, hatred sometimes against the new generation, the young people and the young people of our country, who are now bringing a bill that you are putting to the fore. Do you know how much Brain is going to grow, that is, the departure of our young people abroad, because they will have no prospects or because they will have prospects of working in a job undignified with unworthy wages in our country? You target those who do not give them the opportunity to organise their future, to have family planning, to build a family, while the country's main problem is demographic. And you say to work with elastic hours, depending on the employer's choice, in a negotiation relationship, where we know who the lion is and who the goats are, we know who the strength is in the individual negotiation, where the employer is going to impose, on the basis of his own needs for his profitability, the working hours of the worker on an individual basis. And you come here with debatable lies and tell us that this was what was happening yesterday and we signed it. In the country, individual contracts of employment and the adjustment of working time on an individual basis have never existed. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And it was the enthusiastic desire of the troika and the International Monetary Fund and the employers' organizations in our country to go through this. Even the right-wing governments didn't get through. And you come by now, without memoirs to pass. You're attacking youth, young people. Become part of the young people of our country their dreams to go to a university. You targeted them during the pandemic. You are sending thousands of them to unemployment with your policies. Well, I'll say it straight. What you do is: Unstopp over the young people of our country all the hatred that is stowed everywhere and always against youth by authoritarian regimes. All hate! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I'll come to your most crippled, recent choice. You even deprived them of the choice and forced them to make a specific vaccine, while you knew that throughout Europe the scientific community had raised serious objections to the administration of this vaccine to new ages. And you granted it exclusively to the under thirty-nine years without the right of another choice. And today the Commission itself, which has been hard-working all the time, is coming to withdraw it when about sixty-sixty thousand young people have already made the first dose. But when I dared to tell that truth, you attacked me with all the immoral means you had. Why? Why are you running without a plan and without principles even on the most crucial issue, that of vaccination. All you care about is communication, the attack on your political opponents, the temporary communication benefits. All parties, from all sides of the House, have given you plenty of support to deal with the pandemic. We acted with a sense of responsibility and with a serious sense of seriousness. And what did you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u107	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u108	You saw it as an opportunity to give some tens of millions of media in mass media in order to support you with the "popular Petsa" as an opportunity to make parties with direct awards of public money to companies that were appointed three days before the assignment, as an opportunity for the House to relinquish and pass critical bills, with MPs voting by letter, as an opportunity to impose police occupation. Is that a responsible attitude? Mr. Mitsotakis, you are a Prime Minister who, instead of joining the hardest trial for the Greek people, divides the Greek society and the Greek people. We've all given you support, and you've all backed us up. Attacks on the parties, attacks on the political opponents, attacks on the young people, who aimed, in the middle-class with the Potential, for the children who give Punnels, for the workers with this bill. You divide, you don't join in. And most recently you want to raise a new dividend line, a new division: to divide the Greek society into non-vaccinated people who must be punished and vaccinated who must obtain privileges. But that's not how no society goes. With the repression, with the punishment, with the division, no society goes ahead. Societies go ahead with persuasiveness, societies go ahead with solidarity, societies go ahead with the sense of collective responsibility, not autocracy. But you, Mr. Mitsotakis, instead of collective responsibility, know what you were building? You built walls around youth, around workers, small and medium-sized enterprises, people of culture, all those who are trying to produce and create in this place without direct assignments and with side assumptions, walls, eventually division and social state of siege. Because that is what the average citizen is experiencing today. And within the walls is the elite that supports and supports you. Apart from walls, the big social majority. The bill we are debating today is one of the fundamental stones of this wall. It is the core, I would say, of our obsolete and old-fashioned - I will explain why - your worldview, the foundation of the regime you are building and of the society you are visionating. And what is the methodology, the technique to support this foundation stone? The first technique is propaganda and advertising with asymmetrical lies of this bill. You show it not only as a developmental one but also as a charitable one. You baptize the Middle Ages, Renaissance, and after the late Laskaris, who abolished in this Chamber by law the class struggle, Mr. Hatzidakis comes today and takes a step further. It is allegedly on the side of the workers and offers them a smyrna and a lake. The second recipe - if the first recipe is propaganda and advertising with false bills - is defamation, slandering those who react and resist. You did so today in your 50-minute speech. Let SYRIZA go. And you think that two years you've been ruling, you're still opposition and all you're doing is opposition to Civic Opposition. You're not doing anything else. But two years, you rule. You have a responsibility for this place. All SYRIZA. So let SYRIZA go. Thousands of workers don't understand? Thousands of strikers and protesters haven't understood? All the measurements, whether those using a methodology that makes you politically dominant, and how much more so the ones that make you around - but all - record that the vast majority of citizens see this bill negatively. And these are ignorant and foolish? The trade unions in the country, all right, you're cheating on them. You despise the social organizations. All opposition parties are relying on propaganda, are they advocates of the old, are they organs of the workers or those who have been told to us by you, all moving from dark plans? However, now you are talking about workers and about those who are working with us when your Party and the New Democracy either at the universities with the IAEA or at the workplace with the IAEA, it is the one who has set the most disgraceful regimes in the trade union area. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And you're addressing the Left and on our Left! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] I can't hear you because you're wearing the mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u109	What's going on all of a sudden? Please! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u110	And you are not hesitant about the most anti-civilist thing that has come for a vote in this House since the Reformation, that is, - and I repeat - the negotiation on an individual basis of the worker with the employer for the purpose of restoring working time, to show it as my own epitome of the young and the new one, even using concepts and values with a load of racing and blood. It was very disgraceful, Mr Mitsotakis, that you have attempted - it is not the first time that you have done so - to judge from here the words of the late Michael Papayannakis with the struggles of democratics and the socialists to defend this disgraceful bill. He was fierce against his history and his struggles. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Your courage, however, is disgusting. Here you do not hesitate to invoke the concept of freedom. Freedom. What's freedom? Freedom to negotiate the powerful employer with your lawless worker. That's freedom. Freedom of the individual contract to free the collective agreement. Freedom to protect the extortion of the labour force and the strikers and to prosecute the strikers. That's freedom in your mind. Freedom to pay workers on the day off and to make the tire in the neck of the working class. Freedom, you say, is that every business can fire anyone who wants without worrying about court decisions. That's your freedom. Rejoice in this freedom. Who is this freedom to do? It's about a very small minority that solves her hands. Is this freedom for the vast majority of citizens, society, workers who are watching us? This so-called freedom, ladies and gentlemen of the parliamentary majority, workers in our country know it firsthand. They are on their backs engraved the signs of this freedom, because workers in our country have fought for these conquests. This supposed freedom, which gives the last part of the bread and rights to the barren wealth, was fought by the workers and workers in our country and had a series of conquests. And now you have the illusion that you can level it out thanks to your awesome writers speaking here of fast news and making arguments in the workshops of Koumoundouros, when you have not left a journalist for journalist, media, television station for television station not to shut him up with dozens, hundreds of thousands of euros in the name of the pandemic to praise your own policies every day. And you have the courage to talk about making make news at the offices of the parties of the opposition! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But it is time for the democratic citizens who are watching us face to face. You are bringing arrangements from the manuals of the Greek Industrial Association alone. And you had the nerve to tell us that BSE disagrees. I'm really moved, don't hurt people by the great disagreement you're going through and attempting with all the Memorandum Governments to get through and not pass. And you're bringing them! You know bills to those who supported and supported you. That's the truth. You are hypocritically talking about increasing employment and reducing unemployment. Your sinful past, however, as a party I mean yours, leaves no room for misinterpretation of your intentions. I only remind you of one thing: the 2012 Ministerial Act, which abolished collective agreements, which smashed wages by 40%, which established the slave wage for young workers. Obviously you will remember the results of this policy. Unemployment, and especially youth unemployment, has been expelled into unreasonable figures in our country and in relation to every other country of the European Union. The levels of unemployment among young people were unprecedented, close to 60%, and overall unemployment at 24%. And the situation got out of hand. The lost incomes were missing from the market and the market was destroyed. Thousands of small and medium-sized businessmen put their shops in. And they have fresh memories of this catastrophic period '12 to '14. Based on official data from 2010 to 2014, a million jobs were lost in our place with these policies that you want to bring back from the window today. On the contrary, in our hard times, from '15 to '19, four hundred and fifty thousand new jobs were created. In '10 to '14 a million was lost and in '15 to '19 four hundred and fifty thousand new jobs were created. This is the unreserved historical comparison from which no one can escape. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Your policy, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is at the heart of the logic of the so-called trickle-down economics, that is, the policy that says that we are facilitating the accumulation of wealth and the market will distribute this wealth, we do not care whether it will be very fair, but it will distribute it. It is an economic model that the state needs to limit its role in the economy, allow market forces to move freely, and it will in itself create growth, produce wealth, which will certainly go primarily to specific businesses, but something will move downwards. That is the basic concept. However, this example has never worked anywhere. I don't know if you honestly felt that the one who came out most vigorously to counter this trickle-down economics logic and said that they never worked who they were? He was the President of the United States, who, from the Fall of Congress, had exercised an unprecedented aggressive rhetoric and ideological attack, I would say, in the tradition of rapistism in the United States and bachelorism in Europe. Really, I would like to ask you, would you stand after everything you've done two years as Prime Minister to the middle class, which became your flag in the election, go out to this Step and say the same? What do you mean? Biden said: "America wasn't built by Wall Street, but from the middle class and the working class and from the trade unions." Would you bear in mind the very fact that our country and the miracle of the post-cultural one from ten, fifteen families who are dissipating the wealth of neither the shipowners who are lately coming out public and who do not react to you, but are made by the workers, made from the working class, made from the middle class, made from the trade unions that go out on the streets and give you races, and now you're targeting them? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Would you dare say that? Apparently not. Obviously, you wouldn't dare say that. Where are your medium-class promises? You've taken more and better jobs. You've been doing well-paid jobs. Where are the well-paid jobs? How will they come with what you are bringing here to settle working time, work more and pay less? You've been growing. Where's all this? We've been in the recession long before the coronary finds us already since the end of '119. In any case, when the whole world after the world's adventure of pandemic is overthrown and revises its certainties yesterday, you systematically move back to the same conception, the perception of yesterday that gradually fades, as if a mausoleum were ruling the country, the mausoleum of neoliberalism. You come to abolish the eighth hour, i.e. to set up a ten - hour job at equal pay, i.e. a ten - hour job. You are entitled to legal protection for workers against dismissal. You actually dismantle the Labour Inspectorate, who taught us here about systems within the Labour Inspectorate, as if we didn't know what happened all these years and the SYRIZA Government came and felt the worker had a support beside him. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Six million hours of unpaid overtime have been declared over these days. A fine of 1.5 million was forced to pay the Piraeus Bank and once you got to the government you changed the fines so that, if it ever happens to be caught by the Labour Inspectorate - if any - it is not 1.5 million, it is 80,000-90,000. That's what you did. You legalize the waste hours. You are paving the way for the manipulation of trade unions from the employer and you are trying to convince that this is a guarantee for nine out of ten workers while in fact it is a guarantee for one in a hundred citizens of this country. This 1% that in the years of growth has gained over-profit, this 1% that in the years of the crisis has continued to do gold jobs while most have suffered, this 1% that in the next day after the pandemic aspires to have the country's absolute ownership. So you want to tell the truth with examples, the truth you will not hear and read it in many of the media in our country? So, can I give some examples of what happens when you implement the bill you bring today? An industrial worker from Aspropyrgos, who receives 900 euros and 5,4 euros, if he does today a hundred twenty hours overtime, takes 958 euros more per year. By voting your bill and new status for a hundred and fifty hours of legal overtime will get 115 euros less. An aeronaut of PPC from Kosani, which receives 1,800 euros and 10,8 euros, if it does today a hundred twenty hours overtime takes an additional year. With the new regime for the same hours of legal overtime it will get 232 euros less. An employee in a packing room in Preveza, who receives 1,200 euros and 7,2 euros or less, if he does today a hundred twenty hours overtime takes an additional 1,278 euros a year. With the new regime for the hundred and fifty hours legal will take 154 euros less. So that's the truth. More work, less pay, no protection whatsoever. That's what you're doing! More work, less pay, no protection at all! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] For who? For the people you put on the mark already the first month you took over. In two years you abolished everything positive that the SYRIZA government had achieved in conditions of suffocation and surveillance. Even the most important of these you have abolished not in two years, but in two months. You abolished the right reason for dismissal. You have abolished the protection measures of contract workers. You have restructured the framework of collective bargaining by reintroducing the Memorandum of Understanding. You did this with Mr Brutsi with a midday amendment, it was dala noon summer in an unrelated bill. And in the pandemic you found the opportunity to do even more. You have introduced rotational work, wage reductions and suspension of the contract of employment with an allowance of 534, suspended the obligation to register the "ERGAN" of working hours changes. You have introduced unpaid overtime for quarantine workers. You reduced the Christmas and Easter gift for workers on job suspension. And, of course, from the day you entered into the increase in the minimum wage, which was our basic election commitment and you were forced by election, and you said "we will do it" is constantly postponed, as long as you are a government will be postponed. I have good news for the workers, you probably won't be for long with the policies you implement and prove your real face. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This dystopia, ladies and gentlemen, you also want to impose as progress. Suddenly you became a progressive force that you do all this and all the rest we say are anachronistic slogans of the Left. This dystopia cannot be our country's tomorrow. Recipe should be favoured in every way, because this will ensure growth and therefore better income for all, except for unfair, immoral, and totally ineffective, in many cases has proved to be and destructive. It is the same recipe that led us to bankruptcy in 2010. So for us it is a question of principle, but it is also a matter of common sense. Work is the foundation of growth and social cohesion. So what is needed today is not laws that establish poverty for the worker and that deliver the worker a bound hand in the handiwork of the employer. What is needed today is a new social contract. In Greece there are today social forces, I would say is the social majority, which is able to sign and guarantee the implementation of a new social contract. With these powers is SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. To these powers, we feel that we are giving an account. That is precisely why we have done everything to protect the working forces in the period of our own governance in incredibly difficult conditions. I have no problem admitting by looking at the people of work, the workers, the small and medium-sized enterprises, the people of work and saying that, yes, we didn't do everything we wanted. But it is historically unspeakable that we in these difficult circumstances have reduced unemployment by 10%. We increased the minimum wage by 11%. And we abolished the submarine for the young. We've reinstated collective labour contracts. We have reduced undeclared work since 19.2% when we received, when the APR was working well, to 8.9% in 2018. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We were the ones who introduced the right reason for dismissal and you came and withdrew it, which we increased fines for infringements of working time limits for those who work part-time, who increased the capacity of the AED by 35%. And we've taken a series of support measures for contract workers, for our weak fellow citizens and for the world of work. I know and know, of course, that much remains to be done to liberate work from immunity and entrepreneurship from extreme exploitation and piracy. But do you know what the accident is? That you come here to legislate to make things easier and worse and that immunity to which I referred in a working landscape that is incomparable with what is happening in the European Union. When the average of workers covered by collective agreements in Europe is over 60% in Greece it is 16%. And when unemployment in our country is around 17 points, the European average is 77 points. And when the market value of the minimum wage in our country is the fifth worst in the European Union. In this context you come to bring these regulations that make life even more difficult for workers. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That is why we also commit that the new social contract, which is the core of our ideas and policy, will be on the other side of what Mr Mitsotakis' government is trying to impose today. And it will be implemented, yes, by a progressive governance, by a progressive government which will come soon, whenever you decide to use the poll, by a progressive government which will replace a government that turns our country decades back. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Powerful society with a strong social state, job security, absolute right support for workers collectively claim their hours, rights and wages is some of the chapters of this new social contract. His title is "Democracy and Justice". In our place it is urgent that democracy and justice return, that justice return everywhere. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] However, no one will give the Greek people a more prosperous perspective. Its struggles alone are those who can change what today seems unchanged, what today seems impossible to do. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliamentary majority, with today's vote of this law, with what you are expected to vote on, you are driving Greek society and especially young people into a historic deadlock, a country where today's savages, forty-five and fifty-five have no hope but to grow desperate and today's twenty-seven to leave and leave the country devastated. This, however, is not Greece that deserves the most educated generations that the country has ever made, because these generations, to which I have referred, are the most educated generations that the country has ever made. This fate is not worthy of a people who have already paid for the broken bankruptcy and the broken ideology of your bankrupt and eternal devotion to the interests of a small parasitic minority. But we will not allow you to make this dystopia reality. Together with the healthy forces of this place, the world of work in particular, young people and young people, the world of science and culture, we are committed to resisting all over the House, the neighborhoods, the workplaces, everywhere. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And it has, you know, already backwards, before you complete half of your term, Mr. Mitsotakis, the cage and time flows vice versa. The countdown in the most cynical and incompetent government of post-political Greece has already begun and your end will mean a new principle of redemption for the place. As much as you're trying with nails and teeth to prevent this, you won't make it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This place is deeply aware. There's a collective memory and everyone knows very well. If you too want to see historical memory from the period of your father’s rule. You will see that when governments conflict with the great social majority and its interests, then it is time for them to count and you, with this bill, are in conflict with the great social majority, especially with the most hopeful part of society, the young and the young, the workers. And that will mean the beginning of the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u111	He has asked the Prime Minister to use his denial, to whom I shall give the floor. And because the Prime Minister and the Chief of the Responsibility for the image of the House was also mentioned, I would like to say that yesterday and the day before yesterday we had four hundred sixty molecular tests and, in fact, they were all negative. We hope that we will move forward without any setbacks. Come on, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u112	Mr Tsipras, I found your historic atrocities very interesting and your attempt to compare what might happen in the next elections with what happened between 1990 and 1993. Can I tell you a secret? You're not Andrew Papandreou! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So be careful, do not draw such conclusions in a hurry, because you are in danger of being disproved by developments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u113	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u114	And since I have two liters, can I send you one of the questions that I put to you, because you managed to talk about everything and not answer any of the questions I raised? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Generally, it's good not to see things twice. Watch out for that. I come to the matter of pandemic. I won't talk much about it, but let's finally put that lie aside, put the government back in the fight against pandemic! Because what this government has done hasten to say exactly what it has done! And today you are still doing it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Do you want me to remind you of your statements? So you put your backs on, Mr. Tsipras, when you said in November that we promised a vaccine, which does not exist! You set back in January when you told us that doing twenty-five thousand 25,000 vaccinations a day is a science fiction scenario! And we do a hundred thousand 100,000 vaccinations every day! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You put back the fact that, when we made the difficult decision to close the economy, you defended economic activity and when we opened up economic activity, you told us 'watch out what you are doing, because you are putting the health of citizens at risk'! Yeah, so you backed up? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You have backed by not having a word, a positive talk about the operation 'Frequently'! Mr Chakalotos also told you. 'We would be more reliable' - said Mr Tsakalotos - 'if we acknowledged that the government has done well in organising vaccines'. You haven't said it once! And even today we are talking about, your first-class officials are coming and undermining the vaccination process. And we're not talking about random executives. We're talking about executives who are doctors in the profession and who have been ministers of health. I am referring in particular to Mr Polakis and his unacceptable last posts, with which he is directly coming and questioning the vaccination procedure, leaving it very clearly implying that he supposedly has this miracle of science, which has allowed us to save millions of lives in the world and to return to some normality, we should not embrace it, but we should be suspicious. Why does the great scientist and know-how about vaccines Mr. Paulakis say: "How can we discover the vaccine in a few months when the next vaccine took four years to find out?" Really, Mr. Tsipras? Are you supporting these? Is that how you support the effort? Is that how you fight the anti-infectious movement? And you have the nerve to come here today and say you've put your back on? If you really want to put your backs on, the first step you can take is to come here and publicly renounce the crap of your first-class strain. Come and do it, then! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And for this reason, I am actually tabling the relevant statements in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned posts, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I have again heard your usual reports on elite of the world of work and that this fact - which in the last elections, I would remind you, has supported 40% of the Greek people - is allegedly not representing society, but only some interests and I want to ask you directly: The worker who today, in case he loses his job, can be compensated like any private employee, be elite? The new father, who has the ability for the first time to get paternity leave, is an elite? The courier worker, to whom, under the rules of the bill for the first time, does the company have an obligation to provide insurance and personal protective equipment, is he elite? Any private employee, who has fallen victim to employers' arbitrariness and who now has the ability to use the digital working card to secure how much he really works, is an elite? Is that all elite, Mr. Tsipras? What world do you live in and how is it possible to insist, repeat all these incredible stereotypes? Because I cannot comment on the fact that your criticism of the bill has been over all these months by different stages. At first you were in the sense of adjusting working time as a whole. But you were reminded by Mr. Hatzidakis that when you had gone to the company "PAPASTRATO" in 2017, you spoke to him, saying: "You have nothing to do with these phenomena because you have the luck of working in a healthy business, in a business that cares for business relations". However, omission to say that "PAPASTRATO" is a company using the tool of the working time adjustment. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] When we pointed it out to you, you changed the motto and said: 'Ah, our problem is not the adjustment of working time when it is the result of a collective agreement, our problem is individual contracts of employment'. But you have again forgotten to tell us why the Minister of Labour Mrs Ahtsioglou signed and agreed with the relevant European Parliament directive 1158, which says: "In order to encourage workers who are parents and who have responsibility for caring to remain in the workforce, they should be able to adapt their work to their personal needs and preferences. To that end and with the needs of the worker at the centre, workers should be entitled to request flexible working arrangements to adapt their form of employment, including where possible, by using teleworking arrangements, flexible working hours or reduced working hours, with a view to providing care.’ That is what the relevant directive says. We extend the range of the relevant directive to the case of a young man who may not have a child, but may want to work two hours longer, to get a paid leave Friday obviously - because he will have balanced working time with more work - to leave a weekend with his friend or his friend. And you come and engrave us a number of examples, which I would ask you very much in your dilemma to submit to the Minutes where these calculations come from. Because your examples - I will tell you openly and clearly - are false. It's fake for the simple reason that you're confusing. Confuse overtime, on the one hand, with the working time arrangement, on the other. To say this very simply, anyone working today is working overtime - we, indeed, are increasing the overtime wall - will get more money. It's over and over! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And it is disgraceful that you show examples of such things, which are obviously fake, because the inalienable term "more work, more pay" applies! How do we do it? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The worker who, at the moment in the industry, will be able to do a hundred and fifty hours overtime instead of the ninety-six who could have done so far, will be paid more than the rate laid down by the Overtime Act, and the same applies to employment on Sunday. So simply explain to us all these calculations where they come from. You go out and explain that the example you have given, the number you have given thus emerged, and we understand it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And stop here to come and disguise false examples and then accuse this government that we are supposedly the ones who, having bought the media and having some strange dominance on the Internet, are creating a superficial reality. Since you are so disturbed by the media, next time I will see to it that I submit many positive reports from abroad, which show the good performance of our country. I imagine that this is part of the 'List of Pedestrian International', not the 'List of Pedestrian Domestic'! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr Petsas bought the 'FINANCIAL TIMES', 'NEW YORK TIMES', all the large foreign publications, to show a balanced picture of a country which, in your view, is already on the verge of total destruction! I found your references interesting in the initiatives taken by the new American President, Mr. Byden, on a number of issues. I must tell you that I first welcomed the fact that the United States has returned to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. I find it extremely positive that the United States too opens up a debate on a large public investment programme, as I find it extremely positive that the debate on the taxation of big wealth opens up by the biggest economy and by the American President. I believe that this is a debate in which we too have to be actively involved in signing the basic assumption that there must be a minimum corporate tax on large economies, at least medium-sized and European economies, obviously, so as to avoid tax competition. But I have not seen you say anything, since you are so fond of the American model, about the framework of labour relations in the United States, Mr Tsipras. The United States has the most deregulation labour market in the world. You're fired the next day, no one asks you, no coverage you have, and you're hired at the same speed. If you want to compare Greece with America, you can't have them on your own single scale. I am not signing the American model for regulating industrial relations. I want to be perfectly clear. But don't show up here half the truth. The truth is another, ladies and gentlemen. Our world is changing and changing at a very fast rate. Indeed, listening to Mrs Gennamas defending a reform that has been coming since 1982 and saying how important it was for that time, I cannot help but worry about how it is possible to compare Greece and the 2021 world with Greece and the 1982 world. We do not understand that today the working relationships themselves have changed, not because we want to do so, but because that is how it emerges from the organization of work, from the way our young people now work, many from a computer, from any part of the world possibly. The so-called 'Gig Economy' is a reality. We cannot question it right now. What we can do, however, is come to regulate the reality of the businesses that provide services in this way and the reality of the businesses that they choose to have workers because they themselves choose them, the workers who are self-employed and are not workers with dependent employment relationships. That's what we're trying to do. That's all you didn't say a word about. I asked you a series of questions. If you agree or disagree with specific arrangements in the bill. You didn't say, Mr. Tsipras, talk about none. Of course, the time will come when you will have to place yourself by your vote, and then we will be able to make the overall account of whether this bill is the mother of all battles, and it is as disastrous as you are presenting it, or whether you choose to make your flags some arrangements of the bill, such as the alleged eight-hour abolition, quite simply because they sound nice in the ears of some people and possibly strengthen stereotypes that already exist. We know very well that any major change can also cause discomfort and turmoil and demonstrations. These are part of the democratic dialogue and the democratic process. But we are absolutely convinced that we are doing the right thing today for the new generation, which has every right to seek a better tomorrow, to look for strong growth, which will create many and good jobs. I was surprised, Mr Tsipras, what you said we had already been in a recession, he says, since 2019. I was not present, I was in Brussels as you know, but I was informed that you said in an interview you gave on Monday that the pandemic was here while we were about to take the big leap forward. What is it, Mr. Tsipras? We were ready to make the big leap forward, or was the Greek economy already in recession before the pandemic hit us? Oh, I get it. The big leap forward would be on 6 July and on 7 July this bad government came to bring all things back! Well, look at that. We will be here today in six months and twelve months. And since you've been talking about scavengers, I have to tell you that each government's scavenger starts and turns backwards from the day of its election. Two years have passed and two more, because the elections will take place at the end of the four-year period. And when the elections are held, then we will be able to make the overall assessment, not only of how we faced the pandemic, which we hope will be left behind, but also of how the country will go along with growth. And let's see what you have to say. Because our predictions are that this growth will be a vulgar one, but it will also be a fair growth, a growth that will create many good jobs. You're talking about Brain Drain. Are you talking about Brain Drain, Mr. Tsipras? Do you not see that for the first time in Greece there is a visible stream of young people who are seriously thinking of returning to Greece? And he thinks of returning to Greece, not only because he believes there are many good new jobs and there will be many good new jobs, but he is thinking about returning to Greece because he really believes that after a decade our country has left the crisis behind and a prosperous road is opened before us, positive over time. Tomorrow Mrs von der Lyen will be here and we hope, we appreciate, we are pretty sure that within the day she will have been formally approved by the Greek Government's plan for the Recovery Fund. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The stars for the good course of the economy are aligned. And the more you insist, Mr. Tsipras, that you present a picture of a country that does not correspond to reality, the more disgusting you will be. But you have another problem. I have said this before, and I repeat it today. The right you're supposed to fight very simply doesn't exist. The New Democracy you're presenting is a caricature, it doesn't even respond to the history of the party. It responds only to your imaginary creation, because only through such a New Democracy can you exist! Only there is no New Democracy! It's another New Democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u115	Samaras says the same thing!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u116	You're fighting fantasy windmills! You cannot adapt to a world that changes very quickly. You have proved it, unfortunately, and today with your prototype. And let me finish, because I owe it, because I must respond to a great inadequacy that you said in your television interview, because you have had a humor that I am not even doing for a building manager. I'm sure I wouldn't take up a manager in a building built by you as a political engineer! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The problem, however, is that the Greeks have entrusted me with managing the fate of a country that you have been trying to demolition for five years, and that is really a difficult task!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Gennamas has been calling for the floor for her second-guess. Mr. Tsipras, who has asked me noblely for the floor, has given me his position. Something is happening with you today, Mrs. Gennamas! And of course Mr Varoufakis' speech is still pending, but the previous Heads of State or Government are ahead of him. Come on, Mrs. Gennamas, and then Mr. Varoufakis will talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u118	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u119	Immediately after the seconds. Here, Mrs. Gennamas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u120	Prime Minister, I must say that this is the second time you are coming and talking here in Parliament with great embarrassment and concern. You avoid answering all the questions I asked you. You did about not hear anything about what I said in my protology about the new productive model, about the progress, about the protection of workers, about the changes, about values, the principles, the proposals of social democracy, about our proposals on what must be done and you were limited to trying to identify us with SYRIZA. Your concern, which is obvious, is very strong in the dynamics of the Change Movement. And you said a word in your prototype, which is the only one I would agree with from what you said. You said the original is always stronger than the copy and prevail. I will agree with you, Mr Mitsotakis, because in fact the expression of the Progressive Partition in the country, the original, is the Change Movement and it is a matter of time to overcome the slandering, the provocation and all the efforts that the New Democracy and SYRIZA have been trying against us all over the last few years. We are rediscovering our relationship with the progressive forces of the country, with the productive forces of the country, and it is a matter of time to prevail again. That is why your concern is so intense. What we have watched today is another work of logic SYRIZA and Blue SYRIZA, how we both look like, one hand washing the other both faces! Who's the face? It is propaganda, communication, authoritarianism, arrogantness and ultimately ineffectiveness. An inefficiency that the Greek people, the middle class, the workers, the weaker ones pay for at great cost. And there's a huge attempt to support each other. Tachamou, we are the same, we have the same opposition as we have put back on the pandemic, we have tabled proposals on all issues, on health, on small and mediumsized enterprises, on the economy, on vaccinations, on education, on work, on the Recovery Fund, on everything! You haven't heard any of this! You have heard nothing from my prototype about what I have told you, that you do not challenge us and do not shake our hand on whether to vote on Community directives and conventions, because we have been promoting them and supporting them for months and you are doing what you are not listening to! And I told you clearly, but you're trying to create impressions. I understand! You're fighting too much! As long as the time goes, you'll fight longer, Mr. Mitsotakis! You will see this no matter what you do, and you and your "pads" who, with the unimportant try to hurt, distort, alter all the proposals and positions of the Change Movement. You told us about the stars and the economy, but you didn't tell us anything about "AstraZeneca", while you told me that you were going to answer the second. And I insist and I challenge you! Give us answers: Are your decisions linked to your choice to open up economic and social activities, because it has failed the longest duration of "lockdown" that you have imposed on us all these months horizontally throughout the country? You haven't given any answers. And I come to the bill issues. You talked about overtime. Clear words! The way in which overtime is paid, and whether or not all this is in favour of the worker, is to do with the position in which you are bringing the worker, because he can no longer negotiate at individual level with the employer. Because that's what you're imposing on him! So from eight o'clock to ten o'clock, because he won't have the power to negotiate, he can only take the day off when he decides to give it to him! And after the tenth hour, the negotiation will begin again on how and with whom. Who will support the worker in this negotiation? In fact, you come at the same time and say that the employer will have a time limit of 15 days to state it. And you're swinging us and the finger for the digital digital card, which would really be an insurance link, and GSEE is right to ask for it. But to say things with their name on the digital card! What did you personally do, Mr Mitsotakis, when he came to vote from PASOK in 2011? What have you done personally, Mr. Hatzidakis? What have you done, gentlemen of the New Democracy, to those who were Members of Parliament then? You said three large 'no's. Kyriakos Mitsotakis: "No", Hatzidakis: "No" No, New Democracy: "No" No. You know what I say? That you are a reformer of a la carte card, depending on your interests and depending on what you want to present and who you ultimately want to serve! That's our answer! And we cannot hear any more words from you, that you supposedly become the digital card immediately. Yes, sir! You were telling us the same thing about unpaid pensions: Digitals, they will come out quickly! Two years you've been in power, and you've been growing up! And pensioners took nothing to support this time of pandemic! You want to go on with the lies? You have been desperately trying for too long to tell us that working time is a PASOK project. Yes, sir! Come on, let's tell the truth! Because the PASOK obviously acknowledges that there is a question with the settlement of work, it has made the collective agreement, which you now come and remove! And you hide the truth and you're trying to hide behind us! And you make a lot of jokes with our former officials and Andreas Papandreou who none of you can touch him on his finger! [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] And you're talking to us about the 1980s when the biggest reforms, the biggest divisions! And the circumstances may change, but values and principles remain, for us at least! For us! I do not know what you have changed in the New Democracy, but we have our values and our principles. We are adapting to the changes to be made in a progressive direction and the reforms we are proposing have come after dialogue with all the productive players throughout the country, despite pandemic, not by living, but on the Internet. We heard them and listened to them all. Do you want me to continue for the Labour Inspectorate? But the problem is that you don't understand why it's a problem you get from the Ministry of Labour! You have spoken to us so many times over these two years about your so-called state of government, but you should know, Mr Mitsotakis, that a serious, real state, firstly, sets the rules and, secondly, has strong control mechanisms so that it can check whether the rules it lays down are applied. He's not dismissing them. It's one of the few things it keeps and has to last. Everything else must give it to self-government, not just to make it the right hand of the state, as you are trying and turning us back to the seasons and the Pavlopoulou laws for self-government. He has to give them powers. But the control mechanisms are holding the state. This will say 'final state'. You want to talk about parental leave? To talk about parental leave and truths. Parental leave, therefore, has been given since 1984 to this place, because family protection has not now begun. And the increase in the days you give parents and fathers is a result of the Community Directive. And, alas, Mr Mitsotakis, if you did not dominate European directives! Alas, if you didn't do that. It's your elementary obligation! It is our country's obligation - not even yours - and that is why we support it, so we are here! Do you want to talk about the four-day employment? To talk about the four-day employment you say about young people. With what money? You didn't answer me. How will they be paid? Because it is another thing to say that technology enables you to reduce the days and hours of work, but to maintain a decent wage, and it is another thing to cut pay, and then talk about four days and do what you do with the controls and do as you do with the inability of the employee to negotiate and do what you do with overtime! Then the scene is what we say and it's not a lie that we describe a grim reality. That's what you're creating. That's the truth, and that's why you're so concerned, because you realize you're isolating yourself. You realize that you are in a difficult position and will come to an even more difficult situation in the next period, because now the climate may be frozen, because every Greek family may now be more concerned with pandemic, whether it survives, whether the shop will open up, whether it will have revenues, whether the turnover is even lower, but from autumn onwards, every Greek family will begin to face not the consequences of the pandemic, but the consequences of your own policy and how you managed the pandemic. Because a coarse money has been spent and the result for the workers and the middle class is not what should be done. Only 42% of lost income have been covered, contrary to what is happening in the rest of Europe, which, with less money, covered 90% of the losses. So all this will be seen by the Greeks immediately after the summer. And then things will be very difficult and you will be forced to deal with them, beyond the communication management of things, beyond the paid parrots that face 60% of the counterpopulation as the "sara and the marble". This is a very serious issue of democracy, but it will come another time to talk, because I am not going to go down the road to the debate. It is unacceptable what is being done. Every time Mr. Mitsotakis and his Government are on the back, SYRIZA flys and makes a disorientation of the debate on other issues, which may be serious issues, and we must discuss them, but today we do "focus" to the workplace and to the place where the worker comes. Let go, then, SYRIZA and Blue SYRIZA, the micro-party games on the workers' back! That's it! Enough! Everything on time! Today we need to talk about the working jungle you are shaping, Mr Mitsotakis, because that is the truth! That's the reality. What you have said to us, the so-called positive, concerns only directives and conventions. I would like to raise three other points. With regard to sexual harassment, it is a matter that we are the first to highlight and said that we should finally release the Greek "Me Too" to guide developments and respond as a political world to needs. And you come here today when you are forced to adopt the European directive and while you know that sexual harassment is a form of misuse of power that occurs at all levels and obviously also at employers and employers, and you only target trade unions. It's unacceptable on your side! Unthinkable! Not to mention the overall attack on trade unionists and trade unions, I would like to answer that the workers, as you know them, have ended in the 1980s and we ended them by our law! This era has been closed, to which you have referred. This law, in fact, is one of the most liberal in Europe, it is recognised everywhere and it is defended today by the European socialists, who are doing what you are not listening to. I would also like to raise two very serious issues, a social one and a wider one. The property reacquisition agency you said that those in danger of losing their homes will be able as tenants to stay and keep them, will not be created until mid-2022. Occupations have already begun, and the auctions are coming. What are you going to do? The arrangements with all the programmes you have brought up to now have failed. And as if this were not all, which is after the twin crisis we are living in, you come with the objective values and you increase a number of property taxes that make it even more difficult for the overall situation. Will you stay watching people lose their homes? I'm asking you. We've caused you too many times and we haven't got one. I will say one last, very sensitive, topic. There are people with disabilities - 'disabled children' are said, but they are older - who, to live, need foster families. And when we talk about foster families for adults, you know they're people who need support and they can't get out on the job market and live alone, stand on their feet. So you come with your amendment and you are cutting off this take-over allowance from an age or more. If you have answers to these people from twenty-six years old and above that they will somehow be absorbed into the labour market and that you will put them on roofs of supported living with guaranteed income, if you have ensured that they live, tell us. If you have not done this, take this retroactive amendment now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Tsipras, here, you have the floor. Do you want to speak from your seat?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u122	Yeah, but with the mask from here? If it's without the mask, I'll come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u123	Come from Stepma. A little more to keep up the measures, no setbacks, we said. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u124	I will see to it that I am brief, Mr President. That's why I thought I'd talk underneath, but I'd rather talk without the mask. Mr. Mitsotakis said we didn't put back on the management of the pandemic. I think that only someone who is unaware of reality or ungrateful could say that. I would like to remind you what your stance was, Mr. Mitsotakis, as Chief of Officer Response against everything that the SYRIZA government has done. I remind you that you had come here and swinged our fingers as responsible and criminals for the dead of the flu virus, which each year ranged to the same levels, and raised a major issue, that they were dead for which you said the SYRIZA government at the time. E R And you come here today like you don't understand anything. You don't understand anything. You did not realize that for a year and a half, contrary to what happened in other European countries, Opposition as a whole was a constructive opposition to the government. The two main issues that seem to be constructive are that it supported and not only supported, but tried to convince citizens of the need for unprecedented and cruel measures to limit citizens' rights and freedoms. He has made the same opposition to the right in other European countries, for example in Spain, as you refer very often to Spain and you have confused populism, which is populism on the right, with progressive governance on the basis of the Socialist Party and a party on the radical left. Who were those in Spain who came across, not just to the government and its decisions, but to the need for restrictive measures? It was the representative of your brother party in Spain, the representative of the populist right, who won and said he won Podemos and the Socialist Party in the elections. Who won? The virus negator won. We had this kind of opposition here, and we didn't know about it? Did we have such a attitude here and didn't we know? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Imagine what this country would take if the pandemic found in the rule of the place progressive forces and especially SYRIZA. What unholy alliance would you personally and media resort to supporting you in order for every person who loses his life to charge him to those who govern him. Did we do that? And you come here today and tell us we didn't put our backs on? However, Mr Mitsotakis, I repeat: You have been ruling for two years now and the tactics of the opposition to opposition to opposition has a limit. I heard the same thing today. Instead of coming here and saying an apology to the Greek people and especially to young people under the age of 30 and young people for whom, with your suggestions, the Committee of Experts has made sure that only one vaccine is used exclusively, and he knew that all over Europe there are studies that show that young people and especially young women this vaccine causes blood clots, while you knew it, you exerted pressure. And instead of coming to apologise for this, you come again and put the same candy under the tongue: Paulakis. Paulis was on the board? Did Paulis order this vaccine to be given to the under thirty-nine and only to them? Paulis was then in the committee that changed its mind and while four hundred and sixty thousand people have made the first dose, he said to them: ‘I'm sorry, it's withdrawn and it's dangerous to public health’? And who was it that worked on scientists, science and the committee itself? Was it me? Aren't you the ones who flirted with the ministries of the head of the committee and placed you in the New Democracy ballots, and did you science and scientist party tomasters and political tombs of your tiny-party purposes? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Was that us? But we've told you since the first day: Come and put back all of us together, make a common design. How many times did the Step forward not ask for the Heads to convene to discuss our planning for the pandemic, the agreement to a Minister of Health of common acceptance, so that we can have joint responsibility and joint action towards the pandemic? How many times have we not demonstrated our primary duty and obligation in the interests of public health and the protection of human life? And you said 'no'. And you come here today to tell us we didn't put back anywhere. How many times have we asked you to strengthen the National Health System and you refused? Mr. Mitsotakis, the Greek people see and judge. I would like to say to you that you can no longer hide behind an obsolete opposition to opposition and constantly play the game of cat with the mouse with the famous Committee of Scientists that you deceive them. I do not know if that is why you also legislated on the immunity of the committee, but in any case the biggest damage that has been done in the country is that the Greek society is losing its trust in science and scientists, and that is the worst thing that could happen. I come to the issues relating to the labour bill. You're acting like you don't obviously understand, because you understand. You're an intelligent man. And you and Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u125	Is she intelligent?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u126	Uh, yeah, she's brilliant. The Prime Minister's not stupid. Alas. He thinks we're stupid sometimes the Greek people. But that's another story. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So you come and hide behind two international conventions and a European directive, you are constantly referring to articles relating to these conventions and this directive to hide the substance of the draft law, which is not international conventions and the European directive. These are the zippers to hide the great effort you come to carry out and the enthusiastic desire of the employers' and BSE organisations, who have not managed to implement it in three successive governments with the troika and now come with you without a troika, who testify without wood, said by the Greek people. You come here without pressure to apply the arrangement of working time through individual contracts. The individual contract is the crucial, the core of the degradation of workers' rights within your legislation. You are all aware - and a small child can understand this - that at individual level and indeed in a labour market which, unfortunately, is dispersed in our country after so many years of monuments and when I told you - I said it in my first speech - in Europe we have 60% and over collective labour contracts, and here we have 16%, when we have more than doubled unemployment in Greece than the average European term and one of the lowest minimum wages the negotiating power of the worker individually toward the employer is too weak. In each treaty, the power of the worker in individual negotiations is powerless, and, more importantly, in these conditions, the worker knows that he can be fired and found. Do you realize where this will lead? How are we going to deal with the major problems that are currently affecting the Greek family and the demographic problem and economic and family planning? Or will unemployment be reduced? Unemployment will increase because an ocean of poorly paid overtime is given at the disposal of the employer in order to load it up to its already employees and not hire new workers. So you come and say hypocritically - while you know - that this has been signed by Xinoyannakopoulou and Ahchioglou. Aren't you embarrassed? Thirty years there was collective agreements the working time arrangement in Greece, with the latest legislative intervention in 2010. It was, however, about collective agreements. Papastratos has a business contract. He is not in a position to negotiate with one of the employees, as will be done from now on. Do you not understand this difference and do you always repeat the same candy? Obviously you understand it, but it's your tactic, it's part of your propaganda this. You refer to Mrs Ahtsoglou, who has nowadays been two major interventions in the protection of workers who have not seen them since postmortem and then in the country and have been in the toughest times of the Memorandum of Monitoring. Who? The right reason for dismissal. The employer must be obliged to justify the dismissal of the worker. And the contractor’s co-responsibility and entrustment to the contractor. Because new pamphlets at the expense of workers in our country are the so-called rental workers, the contractors who work without conditions, without hours, without rights, without established relationships and does not account for the contractor. The contractor. Run, find the contractor. These two have been unleashed within a night as soon as you've been in the government to serve them. Because BSE has shown us over and over and over again and outside of Maximos, we are not going through it. We have also been through this because we are accountable to the world of work. We don't account against the business elite. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You are now referring to Mrs Ahtsioglou falsely for a directive which was not about adjusting working time but about parental leave. You know you're falsely referring to this. But you're making impressions. You talked about segregating the strike from the illegality. Really? So, the main issue that concerns workers and workers is that strikes are illegal? What kind of social automation has he been in a right that exists in Greek, European and international society for decades? Is that a progressive policy? Is this New Democracy that changed and became progressive and is it not New Democracy the old right we met, the right, this black darkness in the country that shrunk rights and conquests? That's it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You're retreating your face. But that's the core of your ideology. But I promised not to get far. All I will say in relation to labour is that we commit this bill to withdraw it when the political conditions will create the conditions in the next election, with simple proportionalness, to form a progressive government. Not only should this bill be overthrown but also promote the support arrangements of the world of work. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But you said, Mr Mitsotakis, that we badly blame you for having a privileged relationship with the media using the Pecha list for public money, because if that were the case, you should have paid European media which are equally savage to you. I don't see that. Instead, I saw that ‘FINANCIAL TIMES’ was the only instrument that wrote on 14 November 2019 that the Mitsotakis government legislated in favor of suspects of money laundering and corruption. I have not seen any other media in Greece highlight all this. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] Like also the "POLITICO" and the "GUARDIAN" were once again extensive reports of the fact that the Greek Prime Minister is constantly violating the measures of the lockdown he had adopted. Ikaria became a headline page in "GUARDIAN" and "POLITICO" first and then some media in Greece were forced to show them. Don't try to make the night. The Greek people understand exactly what is happening right now in the country. As far as the validity of the evidence I have submitted is concerned, you are used to question their validity. Here we shall be, Mr Mitsotakis, once your law is implemented. And the industrial worker in Aspropyrgos and the airline of PPC and the worker packer in Preveza will see how much they will reduce their income with your new law and mispaid overtime. But you talked about the worker, about the new father, about the private employee. And they'll all see, if they don't get fired until then, because the dismissal will hang over their heads like a tomacle broken - the consequences of the law you're voting on. I close by telling you this. It's a nice pun that you were carved for the building manager and the building I would build and you wouldn't go in as a manager. Let me tell you something. I don't know of any contractor who lives honestly who would give an apartment to such a battling, the greatest battling of Greek political life, because he would never get his money. Pay off your debts with low payments. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But I ask you again. In one of the many properties you own, would you have a manager, like you, who, instead of reducing the debts of his business - you, your party - raises them by 30 million per year by accumulating 120 per year in a debt that accumulates on the back of the Greek people? So, instead of intelligence, come if you have the guts to discuss the substance of the proposal for a law that we have tabled to finally pay. Pay. It is a question of equality towards parties and democracy and against the Greek people. Let go of the jokes. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You can't owe millions and do the most expensive campaigns on the internet and we can house our party. A citizen cannot be informed, and he can attempt to accumulate debts. It's a matter of parity. It's a question of democracy in this place.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u128	He has asked for the floor for a reply from the Prime Minister. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u129	Wait a minute. I will submit to the Minutes, Mr Tsipras, four pages of articles that speak very positively about our country, about its financial performance, about the fact that for the first time we are borrowing at negative interest rates, about how we organised the vaccination operation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u130	Quiet, quiet. As before now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u131	We were from the first countries to submit our plan for the Recovery Fund, which we estimate will have been approved within the day. The fact, Mr Tsipras, that the image of the country improves abroad and that we leave behind difficult and dark times only good for the country. It was indeed dark in some of these times. I saw that you were disturbed by the relevant report that I made, on the occasion of forty years, since Greece entered the European Union. I should tell you that the history of our resignations is not erased and is not forgotten. We're all accountable to history. I account to the Greek people as elected Prime Minister of this country and you as Chief of Antipopulation, and at the end we will both answer to the next elections. I put the relevant indicative list in the minutes only from the positive publications for the country. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I understand that whatever good is written for the country, not for the government, always gives you a relative disquiet. You also show it through what you say and through the tongue of the body. But it is good for the country to be recognized as a reliable player on the geopolitical chess board. It is good for the country to be recognised as a country that is at the forefront of the transition to a low-carbon and finally zero-carbon economy. It is good for the country to recognise that it has made a digital leap in the services it offers to the Greek citizen. But ultimately what the stranger guy writes little about it. What matters is what citizens think. And that's what they'll show you once and for all when the next election is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u132	Please. He'll share what the Prime Minister has submitted. The President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Yiannis Varoufakis, is called in Stepmas for his speech. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a meeting in progress. Mr Varoufakis is about to speak right now, so I would like your attention. Mr. Varoufakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President, and ladies and gentlemen. Minister, Madam President and gentlemen of the Government, Mr Hatzidakis raised many interesting and important issues about the issues relating to the world of work in the preamble to the bill. Questions, for example, about balancing work and personal and family life. Who disagrees that it matters? The protection of the precariat, i.e. the people who work with the piece, with the kilometre. We see them on the bikes. The rules of teleworking that do not exist. The fight of the "black" undeclared or "gra" declared work, this great blow, this wound of the Greek society. The need to evaluate the so-called 'digital nomads', which in a small way balance up Brain Drain, but also raise huge issues as to the ability of this society to incorporate the production process into its social fabric.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u134	Please be quiet. Those who want to talk, please go out. From the north I can see them talking. We must respect the speaker. Mr President, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. These are all very important issues. With one word, however, the Minister has put an end to any serious solution to these problems. Can a single word do so much harm, an aggressive determination to cancel or ridicule a serious issue, a concept of substance? Of course he can. This aggressive determination is the word "atomic" in front of the word "negotiation". Putting the "atomic" in front of the "negotiation" is like putting the "in" in front of the "consolidated". If anyone tells you "incense spontaneous," they say nonsense. It's like putting the "monomer" in front of the "Convention". ‘Union contract’ makes no sense. It's like volunteering in front of "taxation". Another mockery, another form of oxymobile. The same applies when you put the word "atomic" in front of the word "negotiation" between employers and employees. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANASOU takes over the Presidential Chair.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, labour law needs one country. Why does labour law need? Because individual bargaining between employer and employee is equivalent to a work jungle. That's why labour law is needed. Aristotle said so. What did Aristotle say about the greatest injustice? "The greatest injustice," Aristotle said, "is to treat inequality as if they were equal". So, by adopting individual negotiation, your labour law, Mr Hatzidakis, self-determined, becomes anti-virtual law by definition. Because you're a clever man - it's not that you don't know it - I recognize that this is your goal. You're going through other situations. We are, in fact, passing from today to other dark situations, such as the ones presented by Francis Ford Copolas, the "Node", when Marlon Brado explains how he will bend the resistance of an opponent. 'We will make it to him', he says, 'a proposal that cannot be denied'. It is the worst slavery in which the worker consents because he has no choice. This is the definition of slavery. Thus, instead of a balance between work and family and personal life, which we should be discussing, by putting the word 'atomic' in front of the word 'negotiation', the individual negotiation between the employer and the worker who will make the distribution of time more or less the result of the abolition of personal and family life, which will thus be adapted to the advice of the employer, as is done to a very large extent already, and you are coming to formalize. Instead of protecting the precariat, the dealers, the people working with the track, the individual negotiation turns its large masses so far into a defenseless precariat. Instead of teleworking rules protecting teleworkers, the individual negotiation of what he's doing? It legalizes extending the territory of the boss to the worker's home. As for the government's digital card, given the abolition of labour inspectorates it will simply record what the employer says should be documented. Instead of fighting, we will experience new moments of 'glory' for 'black' work. Ladies and gentlemen, in order not to forget, the great paradox of capitalism, in this market system, is supposed to be: Once the worker enters the workplace, he comes out of every market. He has already sold his work power, so entering the office, in the kitchen where he works a cook or an assistant cook, in the supermarket that works in the cashier or warehouse, the crafts, the factory, as soon as he enters the workplace, he ceases to be a buyer, he ceases to be a salesman, he ceases to be a citizen. It is transformed at that time as it enters the workplace in a gear of a productive process whose result is a product or a service outside the worker. He doesn't own it. To speak to Mr Hatzidakis for the individual negotiation of this worker with the employer in this area, in an area where the market is lacking, the state in which, by definition, the employer as a human being applies the law of the mighty, is equal to the legalisation of the dictatorship of the bosses. You become like someone who considers that because in the Roman arena the floor is horizontal for both lions and Christians, lions and Christians have equal opportunities in the Roman arena. Watch out. The question - the Prime Minister mentioned before - is not whether there should be flexibility, if some people can work fewer hours on Wednesday and more on Thursday if they want to. Of course that should be true. The question is how the state ensures that they do want it and do not impose them on them to be wanted by employers on the basis of the logic and practice of the "Consumer", by Marlon Brando. And how is it ensured that the worker really wanted it and asked it today to work longer and less tomorrow? How is this ensured? In only one way, ladies and gentlemen. By having the trade unionist, the trade union representative, to strengthen him, to strengthen it, so that we too can know that he wanted it and did not want it as an employer to be wanted by the worker. And don't tell us that the trade unions are workers, because that is, in fact, what you say to us because some or many - it doesn't matter - lawyers are inadequate or jurors that this is a reason to abolish the defense lawyers from the courts. That's the same argument. Of course I'm not trying to convince you. Why? Because you know all this. And that is precisely your objective, the mandate you are bringing to this House today: to formalise the abolition of whatever protection is left standing for the workers after eleven years of invasion under the cover of the debt-growth that darkens this place, which darkens our people's minds out there. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you also know that after 11 years of conversion into an vast debt colony, we have three types of business. Three types of business we have in Greece. We have the first category of small and medium-sized enterprises to walk between deterioration and incorporation, which is now not tomorrow. To these workers and employers are awakening at the same agony, the anguish of tomorrow's lock-up, of whether there will be a job. The employer and the worker in these small and medium-sized enterprises have the same anxiety. In these, together with the added value - which is not there - it has shrinked, the dialcystin has already disappeared between employer and worker, along with the eight hours, along with overtime. There is no need, Mr Hatzidakis, for you to tell the workers in such businesses to put back on business so they won't close. They've been doing it since 2010. They keep putting their backs on. Their backs are dripping out of the rack - put on all these years. The second category of businesses, which is much less than 11 years of crisis, is the ones that make them relatively well, quite well, so that they can respect the poverty, eight hours and overtime. With your law, however, you condemn this accusation of honest businessmen. And that is because there is a third category, a high-paid business category - take over supermarkets - with surpluses, with unfair competition, with entrepreneurs who will take the opportunity today to impose on their employees - on workers, of course, to choose! - the abolition of five-day, overtime and eight-hour periods. As the Troika unleashed all of you who signed Memorials - New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA - who in every Memorandum - remember - put you in the first paragraph to say: "After the request of the Greek authorities they were introduced..." and followed by the list of horrors - as if the Greek authorities had demanded this, not the Troika! - as the Troika humiliated you - and it humiliates you even today, it makes you say that what she wants to say is your own ideas, Mr Mitsotakis, as was the case with Mr Tsipras since 2015 - they will make the workers themselves demand the horror they are imposed upon them. That means individual negotiation. By doing this, however, you are not only hitting workers. You are hitting and entering unfair competition to the few good employers who do not want to abolish the five-day day, who do not want to abolish overtime, who do not want to abolish the eight-hour. What these honest entrepreneurs have done to date without second thought, that is, they have respected the rights of workers, the law turns you into this respect of people's working rights into a heroic act. And as we know very well, ladies and gentlemen, heroic acts do not survive in a non-heroic era. In other words, Minister, your law does not aim for workers to put back on the companies they would close down otherwise. Oh, no. Your law aims to further increase the profit rates of predators who already exploit workers and consumers and exploit them at a rate of exploitation that we find in the third world. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Within your impulse to put back on these predators, Mr. Hatzidakis, - who even saw their profits launched in the middle of a pandemic while the overwhelming majority is crushed by the new turn of the eleventh-year crisis - the law exposes you to the unfair competition of predators and forces them to adopt 19th-century practices. The New Democracy colleagues will say that perhaps I will overlook them. Mr. Hatzidakis would definitely say so. They'll say that the bill doesn't talk about the eight-hour abolition, that we're going from eight to ten hours with a flexibility, they'll say that neither is talking about the abolition of overtime. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the fact that these two hours may not matter to you, but for a worker who has a child to receive or a sick parent at home, these two hours may play a part. But that's not the basic point of the crime you're committing. Even a minute of an hour, sixty seconds to add to the rightful eighth hour, abolished eight hours as an idea, as a sacred conquest of the labour movement. That's why you're doing it. This is the thin side of the wedge. Place it in the weakest part of the working class. And once you put it with your bill today, a hammer comes in. It's something similar to this. Imagine getting it, getting it over the Constitution the other of your government's finest, Mrs. Kyrameos, imagine to be able to put tuition fees annually in the undergraduate programs of one euro. What soul does someone have a euro? There's nothing but it. Why going from zero, from free to one, is a greater political and psychological distance from going from 1 euro to 1,000 euros to tuition fees, from 1,000 to 5,000, from 5,000 to 10,000. Same as the eighth. Like zero in tuition is a radical figure that is the result of decades, struggles of the Greek people, such as the eighth hour is the result of huge struggles from Chicago to today, and it is a radical number in eight, going from zero to one euro to tuition and going to eight o'clock and a minute is what symbolizes for you - and that is why you are doing - the murder of the'master of cows' of the labour movement worldwide. That is the purpose. That's why you're doing what you're doing is casus belli today. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] I now come to the wider context. The government claims that your law will give the Greek economy a dynamic one. In your dreams! No way. Treatting the oligopolis, supermarkets, shopping malls, and giving them the opportunity to pull out the working hours of the workers without a penny more with those arrangements you say, what are you doing? Intensify unfair competition, increase the monopolistic power of the large and thus reduce the total pie. Even an unreliable liberal economist knows that. You know that, too. But that's why you're doing it. You're not doing this despite the fact that it happened that way. You do it because it's like that. Ladies and gentlemen, what major investor is investing in a country whose workforce is systematically poor in eleven years now, and indeed in the midst of a pandemic, is even more impoverished? The only thing that develops in this way is the development of underdevelopment, the development of underdevelopment. That's what you're doing. In the altar of the interests of predators who hide behind the "Metsotakis S.A.", which Mr. Hatzidakis represents worthy, the development of sub-development is promoted. That's what they do, with four arables, with four therapists. First arrow, the already burnt earth. Young people out there who don't even strike, telling us: "What employment rights are you telling us now, since I don't have any, I work six days a week, seven days a week sometimes, gives me a day off whenever he gives me, pays me or does not pay me! What do you say to me now?' This is your first brother that there are too many, especially young people, who work that way. Your second man is the right estimate that work cannot be seriously protected as long as the world of work is caught in the trap of debt-government. What did it lead to? According to the data of the European Union of Labour Trade Unions, ETUC, from 2010 to 2019 in three countries alone, the employment quality index fell to all others. The countries were Portugal with -3%, Cyprus with -2%, Greece with -11.5%. Because if you degrade this indicator, you will see that the main part of what went down was the weekly working time, which is the highest in the European Union. We are the only Member State - Member State in the European Union that has the highest weekly working time and is making this worse, and at the same time, we are the only state where the average wage has fallen since 2010 and which departs from the European Union's average, even as opposed to Eastern European countries that converging with the European Union's average. If we want to understand why this is happening, one element from the same Report of the European Trade Union Confederation answers: because the rate of coverage of collective bargaining is falling in Greece at the highest rate of deterioration than any other European country. Your third brother, Mr. Hatzidakis, in your effort is the ever more correct estimate of the majority that we have been caught as a society in a vortex. We have an austerity that imposes unsustainable public debt. This austerity produces private bankruptcies. Private bankruptcy creates a glorious field for the predators "HRAKLI", which liquidate properties and take them out to Cayman Islands, removing economic dynamics from the Greek economy, through the extraction of funds. These auctions, bankruptcy law, and now the Hatzidale liquidation of wage earners, further liquidation, create new misery, new tolerance, new contraction of popular consumption. And so, we have a new reduction in productive investment as long as active demand in this country is reduced and emphasis is placed on what? It gives rise to the investment of predators, red loans etc., in gambling, mining, which, of course, bring about the taxation of citizens living in that country and strive to survive, a new shrinking of the tax base and thus, new austerity, new bankruptcys and saying. Mr Hatzidakis' fourth aid is a trade union movement which really leaves a lot of questions. He's your ally, Mr. Hatzidakis, the workpatientism, which you are confusing on purpose with trade unionism. You call on the workers to defer collective negotiations, as you do with populism, which you are going to identify with democratic resistance to the loss of democratic sovereignty in that country. What is your objective in the context of your memorial populism? And what do I mean by that? What is your memorial populism, not only yours, but also PASOK and SYRIZA? The account that, if we say yes to everything, if we are exemplary prisoners, we will eventually all be rich or at least, we will stand by and fly. That's the commemorative populism. The populist is the one who promises everything to everyone. So you do: Promise everything, saying "yes" to everything in Troika. That's what you're doing. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] So in the context of this memorial populism, you are now coming to be the savior of workers from the workers, as you as the father of the workers you will care for them, while what you are doing is that you are turning them against their own interests, alienating them from the one and the only truth. Who's that? That to realize their personal dreams, to see a better tomorrow, to become their new slave technologies and not these new tech slaves, they must act collectively. Ultimately, Mr. Hatzidakis, your greatest brother is feeling out there that things are so bad that they can't get any worse. And what will a Hatzidakis Law do? Things have been destroyed in the labour market area anyway, and it has some good things - the veilers said by Mr Tsipras correctly before - which can not be done worse, with the exception of some lucky ones who still have acquired rights. Let them lose it, he tells you. You take advantage of the defeat of many workers who, in their despair and pessimism, say to you: "After my goat dies, let the neighbor die." In conclusion, Mr President, let me point out that nothing threatens a country more than a government that is preparing civil raid on employees, that is, against the very few left to it, while it is sharpening knives and forks on the food of the very few. The preparation for this food is evident. It also seems from these two things that you triumph and rejoice and ask the Greeks to dress Europe and dance on the road. The first is the negative bond interest rates, for example, the previous five-year period. Celebrate, Mr. Hatzidakis! Celebrate freely! Celebrate the paradox of paying you market crows to charge a new debt to the already unsustainable debt of a state, which is becoming more and more bankrupt every day. Celebrate! As if we forgot what cheap lending meant before 2008. I thought at least with the memorials after 2010, Mr. Hatzidakis, we agreed, independently of political and party placement, on cheap lending before 2008, the fine articles you wrote about Greece flying - remember that we had a real 5% growth rate when Germany had 2%? - that all this was the trap, it was the beginning of disaster. You, as if we've forgotten all about this, are again celebrating that you're borrowing cheap. Who's borrowing cheaply? A bankrupt state. As if we do not know that, as long as this sale of bonds is increased - which is not bought by stock exchanges, the European Central Bank is buying them immediately afterwards, and the low interest rates - the more your dependency, your government, our state from the European Central Bank comes and the harder it will be, when the balance of the German budget comes, which will immediately mark an e-mail that will come to you and Mr Staikora, the old-fashioned whole, that will tighten you up. The new austerity, the fifth Memorandum, we call it. You won't say that. I don't know how you're gonna say it. And who's gonna tighten the straps? Not for you personally or for your company. They will tighten up for the employees, who are today leaving even more unprotected to undoing than the predator oligopoly, who export incomes to the detriment of even the markets, including the small and medium-sized and even the non-capitalists who support you and vote for you. The second thing you triumph for, of course, - and the Prime Minister did so again, where he said to us, and that today he will get the approval and credit from Brussels - is the Recovery Fund. That's a lot of billions. It is enough, in fact, to increase the proportion of Greeks who benefit from the crisis. Because there are also Greeks who benefit from the crisis since 2010. That is what I calculate with the recovery fund's money that it will go from one 5% of the Greek population, but it can also reach 15%. And indeed, these people will benefit. Of course, these billions are not enough for either saliva or plaque to cover your financial holes or to make the investments that are necessary so that Greece can catch up with the fourteenth green industrial revolution, as a factor of sufficient green energy, capable of adding value to its homeland. Mr. Hatzidakis, away from me the devaluation of your achievements. You've succeeded in many mandated liquidation services on the part of a particular oligarchy. I am sure that today you will pass this bill, you will have achieved at least on paper the further liquidation of an already liquidated labourer. 'at least on paper' I say, because for us, the war begins today. That's obvious. You're at the forefront of a government of reverse alchemys. What's the reverse alchemic? The one who catches gold and makes coal, not incompetent, but because he's your target. You are not the first Minister of Labour to do what you are doing today. We see this project for a decade. Like the cruisers following the heavy artillery, which has forged an hour of work and the "Troika Air Force", which has left almost nothing upright, some ruins. You also come to tear down these ruins, what's left of the fortified works for work. You are ruiners, as are the previous ones. You've been doing this all these years. You have accepted the role of sergeant giving the victims of the memorial deaths, the bankrupt small and medium-sized enterprises and, above all, the rights of employees. You have a difference from the previous ones, Mr Hatzidakis. And I will say about SYRIZA now: You of SYRIZA were trying hypocritically, having signed the memorials and playing this Troika role, to bandage the dying bodies of the victims of the troika with bandages. While you, Mr. Hatzidakis, perhaps a little more honest, are digging graves. While they left eight hours, overtime and mourning to disappear by themselves, without legalising their extinction, you come and legalize him. And that's a form of honesty. Your differences are real, but sadly small, symbolic, meaningless. As for us, for Merra 25, the protection of workers goes hand in hand with real growth, with common green prosperity. And all this has a prerequisite for us: a break. Affliction with the austerity of unsustainable public debt. A breakdown with the bankruptcy of families and small and medium-sized ones through the auctions, which is a prerequisite for the predators of the predators of the “ERAKLI”. A breach with the bankruptcy law, which comes to complete the goddess work of "HRAKLI". A break with the successful effort to turn private against civil servants, precariat against proletariat, and tanapalin. A reduction in the immunity of oligarchs against people and the environment, which will finance with many billions the Recovery Fund, the new big fund of young, upcoming scandals, the fund that will also be operating as a green pan-summer, which instead of strengthening, cancel the green industrial revolution. And yes, a break with the labour market, Mr Hatzidakis, which Mercury 25 would like to help replace by a new Biomew trade union model, a productive trade union where real workers take the production process into their hands. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] And one last thing, Mr. Hatzidakis, not to tell me we didn't warn you. You speak of respect for the judgments of the courts when they declare the strikes illegal. You are talking about civil responsibility for trade unionists who ignore these banning trade union decisions. Listen, Mr. Hatzidakis, forget these. If the people were to accept judicial decisions against the strikes, there would never be eight hours to come and abolish it today. We would still be, in terms of industrial relations and other things, in the 19th century. You are speaking, Mr Hatzidakis, about an electronic trade union register and electronic votes before a strike is declared. We in Mera 25 have acted and the electronic register, long before you and pan-European, and we have been voting for electronics every week. This party, where electronic votes are part of our DNA, looks into your eyes and says, "Forget it." But the electronic votes within safe software environment, which we have made for ourselves, and the electronic votes in the trade unions, where are they going to take place? On the platforms of the digital paradigms of the "Metsotakis S.A.", which the employer intends to know what each worker is voting for. We're telling you so there won't be any misunderstandings. PART 25 is a soul and body that is committed to the frontal conflict with whomever of you dare to follow the judicial path towards fascism, which means banning strikes and targeting trade unionists. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] If you, Mr. Hatzidakis, choose to become a digital Godzamanis, we choose to chase you on the end of the earth. Today you are declaring such a war. Today we're lifting your glove. We'll fight you in every corner of the country. We'll stop you in every inch of Greek territory. You think you have the power to defeat both logic and law. Laugh. Good night, Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Now the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u137	Mr President, I would like to apologise first because I was not in an important part of Mr Varoufakis' speech. I had to deal with some urgent issues in relation to legislative improvements and amendments. Mr Varoufakis' speech was of course a mug, and it is understood that I fully disagree. I will not comment any further, however, because I have already spoken to the Commission three times in the House, and I do not have at this stage to say something new, and above all I do not have anything to add in relation to what the Prime Minister said. The reason why I make this intervention is basically to submit the first of the two packages of legislative improvements. These are thirty legislative improvements, not very important, I would like to tell you - you will see them - which to some extent take into account the proposals, the ideas of the Scientific Committee of Parliament. One more package will follow. I think it will be submitted in time. I am also going to be placed on the amendments that the government accepts or does not accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, may I have the floor, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u139	Mr Gregoriadis, your President has just spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, I would like for a minute until Mrs Malama goes up to Stepma, which has waited a long time, to speak on a point of order, which is very strange and bizarre. It's not your fault, it wasn't your presiding. Look, Mr President, what happened here today in the House, an hour ago, not on your own responsibility, but on the President of Parliament, Mr Tasoula. After all the political leaders ended and while the Chief of the last parliamentary force was present and asked for the floor, the Prime Minister, the Chief of Official Representation and Mrs. Fofi Gennimata, the President of the Change Movement, were given a second order. This, in our opinion, is strange for their parliamentary culture to accept this inconsistency, not to have spoken with a political force, and, secondly, it shows, in our opinion - and I close with - that three forces, which, in my opinion, were not random enough to bring me memos into the country, were almost in agreement to squeeze the voice of a fourth force that resists the memoirs. Thank you very much for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u141	Mrs Malama has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, no matter what you say, no matter how you baptize the bill we are discussing today on labour, it is the epitome of the government's attack on the world of work. It introduces provisions that effectively abolish the worker's right to work in his own time, as the worker will be allowed to complete his working hours only if his employer so permits him. This bill encourages again the major employers and harms, apart from the workers, and all small and medium-sized enterprises that are unable to compete with the major economic players of a fully regulated market. What gift does the government give with this bill to the great employer? It gives the possibility of imposing individual contracts of employment without working hours. It provides the possibility of supposedly adjusting working hours through a compulsory forty-five hours as provided for in Article 45. It enables the employer to abolish the five-day and eight-hour period by introducing the compulsory six-day period or the compulsory period laid down in Article 44. Of course, it is possible to offset overtime pay by overtime, which directly affects the worker and reduces his pay, as the pay for overtime is equal to the remuneration of normal working hours. At the same time, the bill introduces other extreme provisions which concern workers under semi-employment contracts. For the first time, workers with reduced working hours will be obliged to a unilateral compulsory increase in working hours in the event of a workload, but without this increase in working hours being paid overtime. The workers themselves will also be required to do so at rolling hours if they want the employer to do so and impose it unilaterally. If we put this whole grid of provisions within the framework of the individual employment conventions promoted by this bill, then we all understand what labour and social jungle will be like, that is, what that government wants to impose. And, of course, the presents to the great employer do not stop here, and I could not, of course, refer to one of your major employers, the 'ELDORADO GOLD', in Halkidiki. Article 63 of the draft law abolishes Sunday holidays for workers in the mining sector. This means that the "ELLENIC FRAMEWORK" will not be obliged to pay either overtime or overtime for miners and will oblige them to work on Sundays. What's he gonna pay them for? He'll pay them off some other day that'll make the company comfortable. This means practically a reduction in the real income and specific workers. Because of course, I do not want to be unreasonable, we have just been informed that the company has ended the two super-proliferation contractors and that is why forty-three people have been fired. These positions, according to information and leaks from the company, will be covered - it says - through overworking - overtime and overtime by employees already working in other jobs with another object. The contractors are, at the moment we meet, at the military offices and expect explanations from the company. Too bad Mr. Hatzidakis isn't here. He is also a friend, if I am not mistaken, with "ELDORADO". We've got -- give, in relation to this particular company. So to imagine, they didn't even expect the bill to be passed. At the moment, forty-three people, contract workers, are outside the offices of "ELDORADO", because they were fired before the bill was even passed. And I keep going. A corresponding increase in the workload will be seen by all employees working in office and who, with the possibility again of adjusting their working time, will be charged for the home with the tasks they have not been able to carry out in their office. A bank employee, for example, of a bank branch in a tourist area will obviously be forced to take a home job to cover the related workload. Will he be paid for it? No, of course, because this arrangement will now allow the employer, that is to say, the bank will have the option of giving him a day off at another time in the middle of a six-month period, for example in winter. However, there is another major ethical and political issue, in relation to this particular bill, which is also linked to the unacceptable so-called 'fertility conference' that has dealt with the news of the past few days, a conference of hatred towards women's existence, which has fortunately been cancelled. However, I would like to point out this: the Deputy Minister for Labour, Mr Syregella, would participate in this particular conference. This State Secretary, who appeared in the past few days as a strong supporter of this bill, which she itself signs, was expected to participate as a speaker at this conference, this summit of extreme puritanism and misogynism. So we ask her: How exactly will this bill ensure that a woman has access to maternity when her employer is able to break down as long as she wants her working time? How can a woman become a mother when her employer can put her on forced holidays without pay, when she can be abusively fired? It should therefore come out and explain these to us, which is supposed to be cut by this State Secretary, who is supposed to be responsible for demographic policy and family issues. To conclude, I would like to say that the New Democracy, with this bill, serves the interests of the big, BSE, ELDORADO, banks and mortgages the future of young children, people who want to have a family, who want to be able to live decently by their work. However, this is the real person of the New Democracy and we call, in this context, on all the workers to respond forcefully and at the same time reiterate our commitment that this reactive and unacceptable anti-competitive framework will not let it be implemented. We will fight for social justice together with the workers, together with the small and medium-sized ones, so that we can have growth not only for the few, but for all, growth that will allow the worker to live with dignity and to have a family, to be able to move forward in his professional and personal life decently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, too. Mr Karaoglu has the floor now from New Democracy. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Karathanasopoulos will follow from the Communist Party of Greece and Mrs. Gerovasilis from SYRIZA. Come on, Mr. Karaoglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate in the plenary on the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, which reforms and modernises the labour legislation in our country, is taking place at a time when the Qualified Opposition poisons the political life of the place with its obsessed idea that the second time left will be different. This particular argument, which is more viewed as a threat, is revealed every day by SYRIZA’s colleagues, who are engaged in desperate attempts to derail every legislative initiative that puts Greece on the road to progress. The hybrid syndrome that holds them, unfortunately confirms that the delusion that led to the 2015 - sadly, I repeat - are kept alive in Koumoundouros. That is why the way SYRIZA treats this bill is based on the three-fold "extended syndication, break-up make news and indifference in the general interest". On the contrary, our own intransigent axes and priorities are protection, adaptation and transparency. We hear monotonously that it is abolishing the eighth hour, when the exact opposite is actually the case. We are listening to colleagues from the Officerial Opposition using racing chips, such as the classic 'law is the right of the worker', but disregarding the law of society. They are invoking the sacred right to strike, with which we agree, when we provide for legislation is to lay down transparency rules for the functioning of trade unions. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to break down myths, prejudices, arbitrary conclusions. Living at a time when jobs are linked to technology, the Ministry of Labour's bill is adapted to the working, social and family conditions of the time. HD digital paper, paternity leave for 14-day paid days, ban on dismissal for alleged instances of violence, increased redundancies for workers and their equilibrium with that of employees, increased overtime, the conversion of the Labour Inspectors into an independent administrative authority are important institutional areas which give workers more choices, more opportunities, more rights. For us in the New Democracy, safeguarding the rights of workers and strengthening the productivity and competitiveness of our economy are interlinked, as each modern representative democracy is called for. And to put things in place, clearly and unequivocally, that is not the eighth hour. Clearly and overtime is not abolished. Clearly, overtime is not paid off, of course, and redundancies are not being released, nor are there exhaustive working conditions being created, nor is the right to work limited, nor is Sunday holidays being abolished. As far as the eight-hour period is concerned, there is an absolute need for all sectors of employment and all sectors of economic activity. So Article 55 provides for eight - hour work, forty - hour work and for five - day work. Everything else is just a coarsely lying lie. Overtime is increased in a hundred and fifty hours a year from the ninety - six today in industry and from one hundred and twenty in services. It goes without saying that they will be paid by an increase of 40% rather than by the day off. With regard to the adjustment of working time, I would remind you that the institution has been in force for thirty years. The collective labour agreement in the hotel sector also proves it. What has happened so far is extended to the businesses and workers left out of the law, so personal consultation is made. A worker may wish to work more hours from Monday to Thursday and on Friday to rest, knowing that on the one hand he makes up time with his family and, on the other hand, he will be paid normally, since in the settlement the pay is stable. Everything else is screaming and terrorism. With regard to the Labour Inspectors' House, it is disconnected from the state's 'long hand', i.e. from the Ministry of Labour, it is upgraded and with the law's resolution it will now act as an independent authority with a stronger role, addressing and eliminating the phenomenon of 'black' work and unpaid overtime. For work on Sunday in Greece there are branches that are closed anyway, such as logistics or pharmaceuticals. Evidently, the rules do not change, simply in the existing sectors operating on Sundays, others are added that are open to competition from countries. I would remind you that Sunday workers will be paid 75% more than working days. For teleworking, this will be based on the employers' and workers' agreement. If there is a deal, then there will be teleworking. For the digital working card, I would remind you that it was and is a permanent request from the GFCM that is being met today. It is the key to the fair implementation of reforms, such as the right to decouple in teleworking, the adjustment of working time and the equalisation of overtime in industry and services. In fact, its architecture provides for the possibility of a mutual declaration of working hours, overworking, overtime by workers and employers with 'cutters' which would exclude irregular declarations. Ladies and gentlemen, because, in politics, symbolisms are important, SYRIZA's rabies reaction to the labour bill does not stem from the need for Officer Opposition to defend the workers' right. He had the opportunity as a government to do this, but he never defended it. It follows from its obligation to prevent certain persons from establishing transparency rules concerning the functioning of trade unions. Behind the fiery rhetoric is the agony to protect the acquired workers, who, by their behaviour, despise the trade union movement in Greece. As an old trade unionist - and I am ending, Mr President - I know from experience that the organised union which is responsible for its role is making a decisive contribution to the progress of the economy and to the protection of workers. But it is another thing to defend rights, and another to perpetuate bad texts of a working post, the legal framework of which was shaped four decades ago and ceased to meet today's increased demands. Obviously the right to strike is sacred and self-evidently guaranteed in the Constitution and the bill. That is why we are strengthening the credibility and representativeness of trade unions by facilitating workers' participation in decision-making. To sum up and close, the labour bill overturns obsolete logic by bringing a normality to work relationships, sets limits, puts security valves, facilitates workers and employers to collide with calm, mutual respect and mutual understanding. It goes without saying that the New Democracy Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of the labour bill because it increases the competitiveness of the economy, ensures better pay, upgrades the working environment and provides better quality of life. We are voting in favour of it, ladies and gentlemen, because it gives the worker and power to the economy by treating the paths of the past. Because when the counterpopulation is dogmatisms, we create Greece of the 21st century and of the fourth industrial revolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, too. Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. And what we have not heard all these days from the Members of the New Democracy when they are addressed to the C.E.- Oh, my God! That the C.E.C. is not in line with the new era, that we are stuck in the past, in the previous century, while the world is changing. They even got to the point of enlisting anti-communism, emesis and chrysanct. A New Democracy MEP even said last night that even the'red parties', that is, the heroic offer to the C.E. of the friends, members and executives of the C.C.E. And the N.C.E.A., which some times meant imprisonment and exile. But what went through with the C.C.E.?Huh? An anonymous company, like New Democracy, to get a loan and a hard time? But let us come to the important issues. So what are these changes? The first fundamental change, let's say, is technology, is the development of research and science and the impact they have on work. The result of this procedure is objective and without question. In other words, it is the huge, the gigantic increase in labour productivity. What does that mean? It means that at the same working time a worker produces much more goods or that fewer workers can produce much more. This is the objective of increased labour productivity and is not questioned. But where should this objective result be? Should it not lead to reasoning that the worker should work less, but also have better pay, greater wages? To have a better insurance system, working for less years and having a pension that meets its modern needs. He has free time to be able to live better, to take advantage of culture and sport and creative occupation. Is that really what you're doing? Is that what's going on with the New Democracy bill today? The opposite is true. In addition to the increase in unemployment, which leads to an increase in labour productivity, we have an increase in working hours, we have a reduction in the earnings of the real income of workers, we have intensified labour and accidents at work. We even have child labour. And don't say it's in the third world, because the multinationals that operate in our country too are producing there. Why is that? Is it because some supposedly rustled neoliberal minds are to blame for imposing these measures and now with Biden they're going to change all this? After all, as the situation changes for the child victims of the Gaza Strip, where Biden continues to arm Israel with "smart" weapons to continue his murders. This is because the needs of capitalist business groups and not some alleged oligarchs or some "paracists" are being imposed. Conclusion: You must, as all of you say, New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA and others, adapt the needs of workers to the needs of capitalist enterprises and the way in which the economy is organized, who focuses on the capitalist gain and the growth of capitalist profit. Really, why would that not be the other way around? Is it utopia? So why not adapt the needs of enterprises to the needs of workers? After all, is the worker not the irreplaceable factor of a production process? Is he not the one who gives life to machines and businesses and produces the goods rather than the other? That's what we call a JRC, and that's what we want. In other words, we want the organisation of the economy and production in such a way as to satisfy the needs of the workers and to have at its heart the satisfaction of modern and expanded people's needs. Since when is this a middle age? Since when is this conservative and not a leap of mankind to liberation from the slave labourer slavery? That's socialism - communism. And here we have the other basic change. Which one? The overthrow of socialism and the change in the correlation of forces at the expense of the global labour movement, the strengthening of capitalism and the revelation of capitalist barbarism. Except the connections are changing. Your bill is a follow-up to the previous anti-corruption laws of the New Democracy, PASOK, and SYRIZA. Because you all have as a common component the adaptation of workers to the needs of businesses, the adaptation of workers to the strengths of the capitalist economy, the strengthening of growth and the shielding of the competitiveness of businesses. After all, all this is condensed in what all of you in one way or another emphasises 'best practices in the European Union'. That is what you said in Spain, and in Portugal, where there are left-wing or central-wing governments. So, together you all proceed to set working time, eight hours on paper, but in practice, ten hours and put on paper. We as a JRC are opposed to any form of work settlement, either through collective procedures or by individual means. And we can't now comment on these extremes that a New Democracy MP stressed this morning that the surgeon will leave the patient in the surgical bed and get out of here? What are you talking about? Is that what you're trying to convince the world? So we are opposed to any form of settlement. We're really going to "clean" and sleep? So we're gonna teach people to sleep two and three hours so they can get the rest of them to work? This reminds of Hoja's story that when he learned his donkey not to eat, the donkey died. That is what you want to do in the working class: promote flexibility in the labour market, intensification and undeclaration of workers, active and inactive time, break working time, half this morning, half this afternoon, even part-time and abolish Sunday holidays. He is a middle-aged worker, i.e. working on a daily basis in today’s conditions more than a hundred and twenty years ago. And so, any positive measures that you say are nothing but carrots on the lens that are cancelled by inhuman working conditions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There will certainly also be continuity with the insurance and the privatisation of subsidiary insurance and the reduction of so-called 'non-wage costs'. But, look at you, you have another thing. It is not only that, but you are moving on to the second changes, to the armoring of the anti-Arsenal arsenal at the expense of the collective action of the workers. You're trying to make state and employers' unions. You defend the labour aristocracy of the GFCM. With the MATs he held the conference to get Panagopoulos back to his chairs. The aim of all of you is the class movement, the class unions that defend the worker from employers' arbitrariness in the workplace. All the rest of the social cooperative movement and of the cooperative movement and a number of others that turn into post-capitalist "Nefelim" lead precisely to the attempt to manipulate the labour movement and to the workers entering under the flags of the employer. And from this point of view, you are hitting the only weapon and completing the crime against the strike initiated by SYRIZA, seeking to turn it into symbolic energy. All of this shows your panic and fear from your class hatred against the working class. And that is why you would do well to remember what history teaches, such as that the law of Laskaris, who wanted to abolish the class struggle, was thrown into the ballot of the unusable. So your law, too, will be thrown into the trash can of history! For that very reason: because when you sow winds, you will reap storms! We, as a JRC, will do everything in our power to ensure that the fight against the people and the working class is against the real rival, against the monopolies and employers, against the capitalist system and socialism, about the liberation of the worker from capitalist barbarism and the working middle ages to which you have condemned him. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, too! Mrs Olga Gerovali has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this bill, apart from political interest, has a social interest in the sense that some, mostly non-waged, are legislating for wage-dependent people. It is the new terminology that Mr Mitsotakis has put into the debate. I remind you what New Democracy was saying in the election. He was talking about a new contract between businessmen and employees, about tax incentives for businesses that would pay back workers, he was talking in favour of collective bargaining and about modern labour law with workers in the centre. These were the election posts. Of course, if you look at the way words go into all of this, you can see that the New Democracy apparently said what it does today, only I said them more dressed. Since 2018, of course, Mr Mitsotakis has started saying, among other things, that it is not wrong for women to work at home and that it is good for the digital revolution. Of course, it's not bad for some workers to work from home, especially in these circumstances. But we would complement that it is only women's position that they are not at home. And that is not what you mean in depth, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. Today Greece has the greatest unemployment in the European Union. Where there is work, it is generally precarious, underpaid and undeclared. Since the first day, and the New Democracy has started dismantling labour rights. I would remind you of the abolition of the right to dismissal, while, of course, as long as the pandemic continued and on this occasion, it has deregulationd labour relations even further. However, today's bill actually raises the level. So let's see what the New Democracy has said to us, and in the run-up to the elections. That the government wants to end with the post-population and ideologically supposedly hegemony of the Left, namely to change the mark and rewrite the story and to delete that the progressive conquests, individual freedoms and social rights were the product of post-population. Thus, the Right attempts to understand critical space and reintegrate into society. He's doing it! In the period after the pandemic, or now that it seems that pandemic may suffer and starts a reflection, a re-orientation to each individual, but also to the political forces and countries worldwide and pan-European, of course, the conservative governments are starting to turn around. They speak of a social state, of reducing inequalities, of destroying the neoliberal doctrine that growth is supposedly coming through the diffusion of the benefit that is supposedly shown when the rich become richer. The New Democracy is firmly pulling in the opposite direction. I don't know if New Democracy and Biden Left think. I don't know. If Mr Mitsotakis is able to meet, let him know if they are radical and left of what he says. The debate on fewer hours of work this week, on equal pay, has begun, so there is an increase in pay and, of course, an improvement in the level of living. Here again, young people and young people are unemployed, working for ten hours on money pockets. Otherwise, the State also places under its auspices infertility conferences to deal with demographics. Ladies and gentlemen, the government of SYRIZA in monumental times managed to reduce unemployment by 10% and abolish the shameful underpaid, but also to increase the basic wage. I do not claim that everything was pomegranate or that everything is easy. The question, however, is what measures the government is taking. Does the New Democracy serve the election slogan: 'Better and more jobs'? Because that's what he said. Of course, he serves it, but baptizing the "fish" "meat". In today's illegal hour, 12 hours tomorrow, it will be called "free redeployment of working time by the worker", which will force the employer to go out and collect olives, for example. Easter's gift and Christmas gift, from many reductions and forced returns under the table, should be called "a gift to the employer". The eighth hour will have ten hours that will of course not be considered as overworking or overtime. Work will be called "employment" and unpaid leave will be forced. Cheap work, without of course counting the worker. I think the New Democracy is fascinated by wages and models of Bulgaria, India. I think that's her conviction. He can say it more clearly. Acquisition wants, elastic work, propertyless workers, seized houses, guests with no prospect and, of course, without education. I remind you of about thirty thousand candidates who will stay outside the Greek universities this year. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not development. It's a mortgage on the country's future. When in Europe countries compete on what gives more incentives and rights to workers to attract them, in Greece New Democracy does not give Greek workers or suitcases. And finally, I will close with a question to the Minister who is not here now. In our opinion, we say what measures are affecting workers. I would like to see an answer from Mr Hatzidakis on a point in this bill that sets rules and puts measures on employers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mrs Gerovalis, especially for keeping time. Mr. Papadimitriou Charalambos from New Democracy has the floor and immediately thereafter Mrs. Likoli from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u150	Tell us the next speakers, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u151	Listen, Mr. Amanatidis. After Mrs. Liikali, it's you. The situation was shaped by the internal changes requested by the groups. I am therefore following this situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u152	Read us the names as you have them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u153	What can I tell you now? You'll all talk. It is not the Bureau's responsibility, it is the Bureau's responsibility. The internal changes took place under the responsibility of the parties. Please, Mr Papadimitriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u154	Thank you very much, Mr President. Since history is often used and Mr. Tsipras used it to go from graduation to graduation to higher levels of graduation, I must remind you of some things that I hope will gain your interest. I read to you something that I looked into and found in my notes: 'Que no sombrreros trabaja con horas salida repartidas como convenga'. In short, "Workers will work eight hours a day, which will be distributed as they serve". And it explains: All workers will work eight hours a day, four in the morning and four later, in the public works and in the factories. Working hours will be best distributed whenever it is more convenient to get rid of the hardness of the sun in the mechanics' judgement and to take care to ensure their health and work capacity. This is Law 6 of 1593 in Philippi, Spain. At all events, Spain was the first state to establish eight hours in general. Uruguay was ahead of us, but for some sectors. We are also all here participating in our common culture. No one has forgotten the wording of Carolo Marx - the President of SYRIZA, Mr Tsipras, curiously mentioned him, but I do not mind personally - because he was the one who made the claim in 1866. However, we must also remember that it was the Versailles Agreement which guaranteed and bound the states to spend the eighth hour, because it is part of peace. I am saying this for Mr Varoufakis, who has a passion when he speaks and always enthusiastically in his way - I cannot imitate him unfortunately - but I say it for Mrs Ahtsioglou, who a few years ago as Minister of Labour - fortunately there is also Mr Katsotis and reminded me - of Article 211 of the law that was everything in it, has passed a provision that says: 'Specially, for the discussion and decision-making of a strike is required in the presence of at least 1/2, 'five plus one', economicly settled members'. Mrs Ahtsioglu said nothing about it in her speech. He obviously forgot. It is not strange to forget something that we never thought we would do. However, once it has been done, the former Minister for Labour and now a spokesman on the finances of the Vice-President must also look at the figures, because during his term of office Mr Tsipras the percentage of people who, at least as the Institute of Labour of the GFCM says, are at risk, that is to say they have either part-time employment or a form of employment which is rotating as we call it, this percentage that was received by the Government of Samaras who had to manage at the worst time in recent economic history, went from about 50% to 55%. One million five hundred and fifty-three thousand four hundred eighty-nine people in 2019 were hired under part-time or rotating regime, while in 2014 they were only seven hundred ninety thousand. So these conditions, which we now recognise as a reality, are going to overthrow. And you'll see that because you're skeptical, I understand. But let things flow. The term of the story we were talking about and to which you refer, when you wish to refer to history, says that what others have tried, smart states, states, states in which, thank God, the unions gather many more in their lines than is done in Greece, where unfortunately only two out of ten are somehow involved in the lives of the trade unions. These States shall apply these arrangements. They have found that the provision and consultation of labour and family and personal life are in everyone's interest and the economy. There's no reason for them to deny anything that's of interest to them. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, apart from the bad bosses who obviously exist, there are good things. All the bosses aren't bad. Mr Skourletis, who now reads 'iPad', seems to me to be able to confirm it because he has a relevant experience. We must therefore win a battle which is important to win, starting from here, by Parliament. I would also like to say something about Mr. Biden's issue, which is not my point, because Biden, thank God, came to change things in America. Until his grace's here, we've got plenty of time. But at least when we mention him, we say that he wants to change by 2026, gradually, the minimum pay for 1% -2% of workers, depending on the state in the United States. We're kind of different here. We have to raise the average pay which is at EUR 800 and something and, unfortunately, the COVID epidemic has made it a little worse. We have to raise this average fee that the crisis has taken it down quite a bit. To achieve this, they need what the Prime Minister just said. We need the Recovery Fund, we need investment, we need labour productivity to go up, we need to do it. And that will not happen, if we continue to lie, believe them, and then invent arguments which unfortunately are not new - and sometimes tiring at some point - to destroy something that we have prospered and which does not exist, such as the subject of the individual contract of employment. Thousands of workers know that when they go to work they sign the individual contract of employment. Of course, where there is a collective agreement, the individual contract refers to the collective agreement obviously. The individual contract, however, is at the heart of the worker's legal certainty. Why are you fighting her? To fight so that the individual contract is correct, to describe the situation correctly and to avoid situations which unfortunately exist in some cases, that is, yes, to do so together tomorrow morning, because, by turning my interest in the leadership of the Ministry of Labour, the right provisions that will be passed this evening will eventually be judged in practice as they all stand. And believe me, it won't be an easy job at all. I know, ladies and gentlemen of the JRC, you will not want to apply the law, but if you applied it, Mr Katsotis, you could not say that nine out of ten strikes are declared illegal. It's very simple. You're applying the law and we're normally on strike. You do it on purpose. There's no other problem, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Apply the law. Let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u155	You want no strikes at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u157	Because he asked us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u158	Finish, Mr. Papadimitriou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much, Mr President. I completed with the help of colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much. Mrs Lykoulis has the floor. Immediately after Mr. Amanatidis, Mr. Kourublis and Mr. Dygalakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u161	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not have the honour of the Minister being with us. It's okay, it'll certainly be very careful to monitor us, hopefully greater than the one he gave in the consultation on such an important bill. I am watching, ladies and gentlemen, the debate in this House, and I really do feel that this bill is about a parliamentary reality. Quotes specified, chips, slogans - the Prime Minister "taken off" today - faces - fierce, dark spots, offenses, good, evil and ugly, contenders designed for the viewing. And, of course, after all this, quality is being sought. Unfortunately, in the case of the bill, quality is called out and grounded by what you are bringing to the vote today unregulated in the House. Witnesses are yet another supposed new'success story' of the perfectly real conservative tools for realisation. Beautiful narratives you of the Synod, but they often burn down beautifully. What have you told us today? You tell us from the first to the last that you are and we are strong as a country. You say we slowly get away from Balkan reality. You said to elect and say now that with you at the wheel of the country comes the infamous development that we will take with our sword and say that you are making many reforms that the country has never seen before. Indeed, so many carabina cases of counter-reforms have never been seen before. And you're still saying you have a plan. Plan for the country's international position. We will now be hoping for you at the international conferences on Libya. Plan for the recovery of the spring type economy. Plan for the pandemic, when half the people are looking for - "make it the second dose, or don't I do it or will I go lost?" ‘AstraZeneca’. No answer today we took, under the carpet you pushed that too. Plan for self-government with a cape which you wear to the heel last week and a law that we unfortunately have to see since Paulopoulos. And of course you have a job protection plan today. What does Mr Hatzidakis and your Government say to us? That it's the best it's ever been. The payout was what Mr Hadjidakis and he tore in popularity in 'trolls', a minister reminding us that they are absolutely symbolically Vice-President of the New Democracy - so that we do not forget - and who at the Ministry of the Environment has saved the environment has changed his point of view in order to make all kinds of negative work in the private sector. Of course it is true, Minister, from where you hear us, that serious reservations arise as to how far you have saved them and saved them and whether you have saved them. You see this memory of a camel type by environmental organizations and the suspected citizens who still remember the famous "law of Hatzidakis" as you wish to call it, the extremely environmental law 46852020 that you hid it behind the zipper of incorporation into the Greek legislation of the European Parliament. But it came and was voted from above upon the suggestion of higher powers. And I don't mean God. So now, with the convenient vegetative vegetative sanctions of contracts to eliminate violence and harassment in the world of work, as well as the balance between working and private life, you have brought us along with the dry and green. And the Minister succeeded with his own legislative additions to unite the entire Opposition, making it a single strong voice along with the many who have been justly protesting outside the House for days by roaring a great resounding "no". Experts, of course, advise not to be defined by our refusals. In our case, however, the experts and in this case the Scientific Office of the Parliament have spoken and said 'no' too. And you get over it without any problem at all. This is where you can see that Members are speaking and there is no one at all in the cabinet. That's a sign of ethos. But I'm going further. This wound by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament - through this bill Greece has learned what the whole of Greece means - no matter how much you lick it, it is not healed, it shadowed you, it covered you, it darkened you. But together, he also revealed you to a worthwhile level. So how do you say, after all, yes to a bill that undoes every right to work? How can you say 'yes' to new disastrous regulations on the life and pay of workers in the private sector? How can you say yes to the unprecedented idea of paying real work off? How can you say 'yes' to the poorly understood labour flexibility and how can you say 'yes' to weaken collective bargaining, 'yes' to limit the right of union and strike? These are the 'yes' you ask us to say today. Well, it is 'no', it is not 'yes', because we cannot under any circumstances equate the employer and the worker no matter how you present it. We cannot, unfortunately, swallow this and your Government should understand that this negotiation has failed Parliament. And, of course, we cannot swallow these because under no circumstances is the new modern Greece, as the Prime Minister wanted to present it today, but unfortunately your old ideologies related to Reagan policies are not at all at the heart of your policy. Unfortunately, all these passes, the Balkan cockroaches that you bring once again. In all these ideals that haunt you, we also have evidence, Minister. We're glad you're here at the end. And since you're here, I'll tell you. So one thing that I saw concerns you, is the elements of real life, such as that infamous picture of you that made the internet round from your recent birthdays - long and well-timed - where yourself in your cake you are portrayed as Superman under the politician's costume. I found it fun personally, Minister, to tell you the truth. But what I don't understand is what PPC, OSE, OLYMPIAKI and pensions are doing on your cake. I would never like to erase candles of my life with OSE memories, PPC, "OLYMPIAKIS" and pensions. Unless I suspect that was your wish. In other words, they should not be condemned any further. I would remind you that all the things you have been going on and remembered these days in Parliament - which is why I am returning them - such as the privatisation of Olympics ended up in a fiasco. The monopoly you were telling the state became a private monopoly. The OSE, too, with the charismatic shot of the SYRIZA government - ANEL, was finally sold against a lens plate. By privatising PPC further, in your statement, you considered that you managed to unleash the last Soviet democracy, as you believe Greece is. After all this, then, the reason is not convincing but also for the scripture samples you give us. I must remind you that often there is the crypton. It's the material that superman is, anyway, killing him. It's green. This mineral reminds you. Well, take care of us. We say that the ideas and opinions of each side and the ideologies you bring in in the way you incorporate them into the legislation you are proposing today, you should justify them. It's the whole world across the street. Either you say they're beyond logic or you say everyone's gone crazy. And unfortunately the scientists aren't consulting them. Like the Institute of Labour of GFCM that according to data tells you that Greece is currently in the European Union in the quality of work index. That is why you have done absolutely nothing. Mr President, I shall conclude. The Great People's Base of New Democracy - leave our party and other orders - the people of the company in all kinds of big and small companies, small and medium-sized, have you wondered how they are dealing with the particular legislation that you have brought here today? We will continue to be in the strugglings and to fight the very great battles. That's what we can promise the world. Mr President, please allow me to give a posteriori. I have a personal need to make this personal report. But I won't give it to the government. I'll give it to the SYRIZA Officer's resignation. Really, did you bring in a law to regulate the parties' loans? Do you even say in your proposal that the new Members should pay to repay these loans? The Change Movement has taken over and regulated this case and we new Members are taking part in it. You round on your chairs. How courageous it takes for Mr. Ragus, Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, Mr. Kourublis, Mr. Moraitis, Mrs. Jacki, to make such a legal proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u162	Ms. Ligoli, please. You've been in ten minutes. Respect the colleagues. This issue has been overshadowed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, I shall conclude. Unfortunately, you come and move your finger, you state-owned people. Unfortunately, you have given the Greek people great rights. Wasn't your hand shaking, ladies and gentlemen, when you signed this proposal for a law? Only that is what we address the Greek people as a question to you and your morality and your conscience because you have addressed the new Members. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u164	There are too many more speakers. Please. Keep time. In addition, these are issues that have been exhausted. Mr. Amanatidis from SYRIZA has the floor. Then Mr. Kourublis, as I mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u165	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, 'do not neglect. Take the water with you. Our future will be much drought." An excerpt from the poem of "I'll wait for you" by Michael Katsarou. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I thought that after 2012 and with the memorandum signed, with the famous Ministerial Council act that the minimum wage was coming down, the collective bargaining was freezing and the minimum wage was introduced, there would be no government that, under conditions which are not bankrupt - then bankruptcy was used - would bring such counterfactual measures as Articles 4 and 5, Minister, of this bill. Because these articles of these measures are the epitome of anti-virusal measures. Remember what you were saying then. Did you introduce 22% underpaid to young people with what argument? The parallelism is similar now. That you will increase the work of young people, the employment of young people, giving as an incentive to employers to get young people aged twenty-six and under. What was the result? What did experience show us? Unemployment went up to 27%. The same results will be achieved now. These are the measures that touch the limits of the settling system. And that is why neither you yourself dared to bring it as a self-evident bill. Trying to blur reality, you are at the same time bringing the ratification of conventions 190 and 187 and, of course, the mandatory incorporation of the 2019 European Union Directive, at 1158. You know that the usual parliamentary practice is to vote separately because there are no changes to the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with Rules 122 and 108 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. They are positive contracts, however, that you are using them here, gentlemen of the government, as a pretext to cover the rest of the disastrous arrangements of the planned law, unjustified by the conventions themselves, and in the other articles you are also undermining their substance. So many days' argument confirms my appreciation. This effort has not been successful. No one's convinced of your argument. Allow me, Minister, to tell you that it is wrong for you. It was moved between ingenuity with supposedly naive type: "I am more trusted by you as Minister or an independent authority? What do you mind that we are making generalizing the beneficial provisions for paternity to all and on the other hand in a beautiful world of moral angels created by the abolition of the war of classes and the end of history. All tertiary, secondary, primary, labour centres and professional associations are opposed to these provisions. Your government becomes king-in-law of the king and legislates with a visible class division as a steward of elites smuggling their zeals by zealously zealing not only with its election promises but also with your very founding declaration, since the provisions of the bill serve incapable neoliberalism making it possible - what it says in your statute - the arbitraryness of the gigantic private. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to shed some light on some aspects. In a country, as mentioned in the 'Working - Social State' survey by Dana Kossila and Katerina Tsatsaroni, it is a negative European champion in most indicators relating to the labour market. For example: low labour market participation rates, high unemployment, unwilling part-time employment, average low pay, low wages at very low levels, high weekly working time. The Greeks are champions for 43.9 hours. Collective negotiations with a low coverage rate of about 14.2% and a small trade union density. If these are the circumstances, how will your bill work if it is passed and implemented? It will work more destructively. It will reverse the rule of law - an exception that exists today in labour law in relation to working hours and will show a very wide scope of employers' arbitrariness. Alternative compensation along with reduction makes overworking even cheaper for employers. The generalization of the individual arrangement of the workplace in conjunction with the deterioration of the control mechanisms will lead to an even greater increase in the already largest working time in Europe with what this implies for the health and personal, social and family life of workers in Greece. This is the opposite trend from the one that prevails internationally. Hypocrisy and interest in workers' participation in trade unions are more than enough. You, ladies and gentlemen, must listen to this in particular. You say they should be involved as many union workers as possible. Watch out. In the Ministry of Education you have legalised as government and appointed as elected representatives to the service councils of those teachers elected with the participation of 7% of all the teachers, who have certainly turned your back. With 7% participation of those who have voted for them you have legalised. Is that representativeness you want? The above findings are revealingly confirmed by the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament, and even by the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, which has established an article in your anti-legislative bill to an article, pointing out that its resolution will broaden the existing legal and real inequality in labour relations. And, of course, all these anachronistic ideological obsessions could only lead to the dissolution of the control mechanisms, such as the EIA. Is it an upgrade option to convert it to an independent authority? According to you, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u166	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u167	I'll be out in a minute, Mr. President. What matters in fact, ladies and gentlemen, is not to reorganise the form of a public service, but to reorganise the level of protection of workers. If you were trying to upgrade the entire RCF, we would have a legislative intervention in the direction of its organisational and institutional strengthening. What the government deliberately wants to forget is that the APRC is not a collecting mechanism like the APRC, with which the government constantly chooses to compare the new agency. It is the basic means of ensuring workers' rights in practice. The political authority in question will be able to renounce its responsibilities for how labour legislation is applied in practice. The only real result is that from now on the Minister for Labour will not have the political responsibility for the operation of the Labour Inspectorate. That is the real purpose. As you say in the relevant provision of the bill - and so I argue - "The Labour Inspectorate enjoys functional independence, administrative and financial autonomy and is not subject to supervision or supervision by governmental bodies or state bodies or other administrative authorities and is subject to parliamentary scrutiny, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament". To conclude, today's bill is barbarity against the weak and gives "get and water", in this case legislation and support to capital, in order to prevail in its ongoing struggle with work. For us work is a key parameter of a model of fair and sustainable development. We are committed to strengthening and strengthening workers in every way, and for us it is the basic prerequisite for a real change in favour of the social majority and economic and social transformation. We respond to the challenges of the time by promoting another productive model that, not only will recognise the role of work, but will make it a driving lever of growth. I will end again with a piece of Michael Katsarou: "The issue has now been raised. Or we will continue to kneel like this escaper or lift another tower to them." Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u168	Thank you. Mr. Kurublis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u169	Mr President, following the other decisions of the Committee on Vaccination and the climate of concern which they have created, I would like to ask the Government to submit to Parliament the minutes of the committees for the negotiation of the vaccine prices, the minutes of the committee for the evaluation of the medicine and the relevant protocols, because they are crucial to the health of the Greek people. Let's see, did this committee follow the right procedure? Did he get the approval of these institutions? Or did she bypass and make decisions at the government's command? And let's see how much money the country paid for the vaccines. This is also a matter that concerns us as citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u170	Mr Kourublis, as you know much better than me as an old parliamentarian, there is a special procedure in the Rules of Procedure of the House, which provides for either a timely question or an application and a petition to ask for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, I am well aware of the procedure and will do so, but I have mentioned it. Parliament is also responsible for these issues. It is not a Pontius Pilate, it must listen to the Member and, when there is a question concerning society, Parliament must intervene. I know very well the procedure, Mr President. Let's go further on the subject of this bill. Mr President, a bill is introduced that effectively destabilizes labour relations. It transforms whatever certainty it ensured workers' support provisions against employer uncertainties. And then, Mr President, it contributes to increasing unemployment. Because in the way in which unpaid overtime is being introduced, unemployment will increase at the end of the day. And who will pay for unemployment first, Mr President? Young people and young people, whom this bill imposes a lifetime of prolonged teenage life, without the government enabling them to "fly on their own wings". This is the first and main blow to the bill. Who else is affected, Mr President, by this bill? It hurts workers, whom it actually turns into a predicament of bad work. Because I don't want to give a bad employer character to all Greek employers. And why every time a government might want to support the worker brings a law primarily, Mr President? To protect the worker from the bad employers. I would say to the current government and the current Minister to ask some people whose employment status there is today in the telecommunications companies, mobile telephony, to see how these people work. Now imagine with the new provisions what will come of us. Everyone's going to the psychiatric hospital. Let me speak. Because the situation is unbearable in too many workplaces. That's the truth. Mr President, there are provisions which are working for the state in the process of work protection. There are provisions that Mr Hatzidakis thinks - because I believe that I do not have the only truth, but it is my view - that this environment will attract investment. But one could answer him that another environment exists, for example, in the Scandinavian countries and other taxation, and that is where investment is being made. Here, if investment is coming under this environment of the labor bill, ladies and gentlemen, it will be a predator's investment. Let me speak. It will not be investment that they really want to recognise the role of the worker in the production effort. That's what you're trying to do. Furthermore, all this destabilisation, ladies and gentlemen of the government, will undermine the process of working peace and when such a regime exists, a serious investor will not choose to come to Greece. instead of promoting the process of codifying legislation initiated by the SYRIZA government with n. 4369 and instead of moving into procedures for speeding up judicial decisions - which is the bureaucracy and delay of judicial decisions where time-consumingly it is a crucial reason not to invest because it is precisely disappointed by these situations - instead of putting the burden on there by dismantling all kinds of protection, you think and believe that you will bring investments in this way. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You are also telling us that good practices in Europe allow free movement of labour relations. Oh, for God's sake! We're not second intelligence people. Europe, where this applies, Ministers, has 5% and 4% unemployment. The worker therefore has the option to proceed with such an arrangement provided that his dignity is not affected. But he has a choice to find a job. What's he gonna do here? It will in fact be faced with the choices and decisions of the employer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u172	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u173	I'm closing, Mr. President. You are also telling us about the new independent authority. In general, I am not in favour of this, because democracy and the elected will of the people, whatever government, are limited. But, Minister, the problem over all these years - to be honest with each other - has been that these inspection services are not adequately staffed. The governments could not secure an integrated staffing, the independent authority will ensure it! Do you really think so? So I'm closing, Mr. President. And I want to dedicate a verse of an ancient poet to Mr. Hatzidakis: "Misthon, who has worked for a dough, has not mourned fives". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, too. The floor will now be taken by Mr. Vassilis Digalakis. Immediately afterwards, I will give the floor to the Deputy Minister for Digital Governance, Mr Stylianou, to put forward the amendment for a short time. Mr. Digalakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in three weeks' time since the New Democracy's governance, two years have passed since the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis managed to cope with difficult and unprecedented challenges. Most of all, however, he managed to bring the country back to the fore, to restore the confidence of the other countries and international actors in the Greek economy and to implement a credible and sustainable development strategy, as it had undertaken in the run-up to the elections, using all the available tools, such as the Recovery Fund. I'm coming to the bill of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. SYRIZA has the illusion that, like education, the area of work is a privileged place for sterile and populist opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, both education and work are for all Greeks, for all our fellow citizens and young people and not for the various party audiences. And progressive today, at the time of the major changes of the 21st century, the fourth industrial revolution and artificial intelligence are those that are not afraid of modernization and reforms, because only so will our country be competitive and its citizens will prosper. This is therefore a very important, modernised bill, as it contains important areas and aims to tackle real problems for workers and especially for women and young people, by restoring injustices and by carrying out the necessary adaptations to working law in the best European practices. In my brief time, I will refer selectively to some of the reforms of the bill. I do not really understand why we are not all in agreement with the Digital Labour Card, because with it we will be fighting black work, undeclared overtime and tax evasion. The Digital Card, combined with the checks from the new form of the Labour Inspectorate as an independent authority, will make it easier to detect overrun of the overtime wall. Thus employers will be obliged to make substantial increases to workers, since I would remind you that the increase in illegal overtime is from 80% to 120% in this bill. The project of the Digital Card of Work will be funded by the Recovery Fund, in collaboration with the Ministry of Digital Governance. It is another of the leaps that our country has made over the last two years in the direction of digital transformation. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has caused a domino change, there has been a catalyst of changes, many of which will stay in our lives and the next day. Telework has spread to many areas of work and it is clear to all of us that many businesses will continue to adopt this model of work after the pandemic. With yet another timely legislative initiative, in particular Article 67, Greece is from the first countries of the European Union and the OECD which legislates the recognition of the right to disconnect, that is, the right of every worker to refrain from providing work in a telephone or electronic way outside working hours and during his or her leave. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] In the new conditions under which this arrangement has been established, it is practically protecting forty hours and, above all, it is another proof that we are really interested in the balance of work and personal life. And here, contrary to what the Qualified Opposition says, teleworking is valid after an agreement between the employer and the worker or in cases where there are grounds for protection of public health, or if the worker himself so requests, if there is a documented risk to his health. But I cannot help talking about a number of reforms that are intended to tackle the most important problem perhaps facing our country, demographics: Parenthood leave for fourteen days with remuneration compared to two, the protection of a new father against redundancy for six months, the restriction of the anti-influence on the recruitment of women, the parental leave for each parent with a subsidy for the first time by the OAED, and the right to flexible arrangements for parents and caregivers based on Directive 1158/2019. They are based on these rules on young parents when our country's population is getting older and lesser and equal treatment of the sexes in the labour market is being strengthened. Last item I would like to mention is something that I would consider to be self-evident and democratic, which provides for the bill, the possibility for members of the trade unions to participate and vote remotely using electronic voting. And here, however, we do not agree on that. It's not the first time. The same has happened last year in the debate on n. Regulation (EEC) No 4692/2020 on the procedures for the election of administrative bodies at universities. The reasons for not checking the identity or the confidentiality of the vote shall be by the evil one. The answers themselves are given by the successful implementation of the electronic vote in hundreds of elections, which are currently being held in universities this year. It also gives them the perfectly detailed decision 519/2015 of the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State which I recommend you read carefully. Ladies and gentlemen, democracy is an expanded participation and the free expression of the workers' opinion in their decisions, not their exclusion with the known methods and regularities of certain workers. Freedom is to secure the right to strike, but at the same time to protect the social whole from its abuses. Progress is to adapt labour legislation to the developments of the twentieth century, while safeguarding the rights of workers and the balance between working and family life.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u176	Please, Mr. Colleague, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u177	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is really regrettable that at such an important moment, at a time when the government dares again to move forward, the Civic Opposition for the sake of ideality, but also the appropriateness stand once again with a look at the past and backwards in the future, failing to understand the new facts and much more, to propose instead of any temporary micropolitical benefit, the national need for a substantial and modern reform initiative in the field of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, I have been informed that the procedure must be completed in two hours, so we must all be in our time to vote on all of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u179	So, if we're done earlier, we're gonna sit down for two hours?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u180	Mr. Skourlet, please! We will now continue with the State Secretary, Mr Stylion, for an amendment. It's an amendment, isn't it, Undersecretary? Here, you have the time for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u181	I shall also refer to the articles, Mr President, so if you like, you can give me some more time. This is Amendment 928/6, tabled on 11 June - 6-2021. The amendment is from our Ministry, the Ministry of Digital Governance. It has a total of six articles and the urgency of the amendment is that it concerns provisions which should have been completed in June, certain decisions have been taken. More specifically, in relation to Article 1 of the amendment, the possibility of extending for one year certain rental contracts. They are the mechanics who supervise CITIA -16. It's the largest realisation program in the country. They were hired under a project contract on the basis of Article 37(3) of the Law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Date of birth: 4483/2017. In simple terms, those articles provided that contracts could have a three-year duration, with an extension of another year, thus having a four-year duration. With Article 1, we are giving the possibility to those contracts which expire until 31 December -12-2021, this year, to extend for another year. In this way, the realisation of KITIA -16 and experienced executives who are already overseeing these studies will be able to complete their work and so we will have a good result. In relation to Articles 2 and 4 of the amendment, needs are addressed which have to do with the management of the country's real estate offices. We have a transition to the Stock Exchange, where the three hundred ninety-five mortgages of the country are converted into seventy-five real estate offices and seventeen real estate offices. Therefore, this transition requires certain changes to be made. These changes concern, in particular, the possibility for the institution, the register, to move its staff from the Central Office to the region or from one regional office to another regional office. The provisions are of an occasional nature, purely for the preparation of the new offices and for the smooth transition, education and information of young employees to the new real estate offices, because the employees come from the mortgages, paid or unpaid. In relation to Article 5, the Greek NATIONAL BUDGET shall be given the opportunity to extend the period within which citizens may submit late declarations without a fine. We all know we're in the pandemic... [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm in Article 5. It's 6 and I'll be done. Because of the pandemic, therefore, the livestock offices were closed until mid-March 2021. There was therefore no possibility for many citizens to collect the necessary documents to make their statements when they were made. We do not impose a fine on them if they make late statements. Finally, Article 6 of the amendment gives the Greek Public Prosecutor the following opportunity. It is the organisation that issues digital signatures. Digital signatures can now also be issued for legal persons under private law and for private entities and the time at which that authority operates, in accordance with the European Union's eIDAS Regulation. The organism will be running all 24 hours now. These are the provisions. They are beneficial and useful to the citizens, because they will enable the transition to the operating register to be made where they can make use of digital services, which will make it easier for engineers, lawyers, but above all will facilitate the citizens and many cases pending in the ceremonies and mortgages at the moment they will slowly take their way and quickly and immediately. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u182	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall continue with Mr Moraite from SYRIZA. Immediately after that, Mrs Perka, Mr Kumoutsakos, has asked for the floor immediately after the Deputy Minister of Labour and we will continue with Mr Arvanitides, Mrs Vetta. Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if something leaves us with the great experience of the pandemic health crisis, it is that the world is changing and, at the same time, the stagnant failure of a neoliberal model has been revealed, which has been followed for many decades. What did he show up for? The need now for a strong social state and solidarity to build a different world. At this juncture, in the Western world and not only has opened up a great debate, with the first option of abandoning these failed recipes that led to the destruction, the expansion of inequalities, the concentration of wealth in a few, but also devouring new social needs, seeking sustainable and fair growth models, exchanges ideas, cooperates even in the "Mecka" of capitalism. A great deal of talk has been started in the United States about the social state, the increase in minimum wages, the taxation of wealth, a debate that now takes other dimensions. In Europe, in Germany, in Spain pilots are starting an entire debate on four days' work, the thirty-five hours and things that have come to change all this horrible reality that workers have been living in over the last few years. But you stay entrenched in your obsessions, entrenched in the ideas of the past, in the ideas of another era and, of course, turn the back on these changes that are taking place. You are isolating the country from the developments, depriving it of the huge opportunity to be a part of these changes and consciously turning us back into bankrupt policies. And your policy over the two years is consistent and extremely consistent, it is neoliberal, darkening, hard, it is anti-popular. So the multi-brother bill, which we are discussing and ending in a few hours' time, an unprecedented piece of legislation on Greek labour law, a multi-plier, anti-social, anti-social, authoritarian and co-existent anti-developmental bill on every labour acquis, a bill on the submission of BSE and the interests you have been serving all this time. It is against the world of work, it is against the world of production, the world that has to lift the country's path on its backs, after a very difficult time with the pandemic that seeks perspective. Of course, your bill does not constitute any institutional reform, but it is an attack on constitutional freedoms, a attack that you started on the first day of your governance by abolishing the autonomy of the EDP, by abolishing the legitimate ground for dismissal, by abolishing the framework of collective bargaining and sectoral collective bargaining and many others, which I could mention, but you have reached a point where you can work up to the pandemic to further attack the world of work. You did not provide safety and incentives to workers and businesses. Because we believe that these things go together and that healthy development requires healthy entrepreneurship in the country. And I invite you to look around you the real part of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in what state it is today, what tools you have given it and what deadlocks it has in front of it. You are icing labour uncertainty and income insecurity, making the world of work a hostage of fear and employer arbitrariness. So your router's here. With this bill, among other things - I will mention only two - three examples - you are broadening the work of Sundays and turning small and medium-sized enterprises and the country's trading world into hippies of unfair competition. And that's not something the opposition says. They tell you themselves, GSEB says so, the country's small and medium-sized entrepreneurship says so. Attack young people, attack workers, introduce uncontrolled and unwarranted redundancies, damage collective autonomy and collective bargaining. And in the opposite of all that, we've been listening for two days now that we're in a country that's investing, we're in a country that's coming for growth. I honestly ask: It was one of your key accounts this, growth and investment. Two years now has an important investment started in the country? You are advertising two days now, one month I could say, the 7.5 billion of the first instalment of the Recovery Fund. Can you tell us, beyond the dedications we see in Sunday investment papers, what is planned and what will go on so that we can actually have many jobs, good jobs, with good wages? You have nothing to present at all. They've stopped public works, stuck a series of small investments and you're still playing the fairy tale, helping with the pink cloud that makes you mock and cheat people unfortunately. I would like to close, Mr President, by saying that we are asking a question to the government and to the Minister: he really understands what country government is legislating for a country in which, however surprised you are, workers depend on their wages. This is our country. Is it the country where 90% of enterprises are small and honestly I ask a question, how many of these workers will actually be able to negotiate through unions? It is a country that is a champion of Europe in unemployment right now, a country that has very hard workers in the European Union. You failed all your narratives. I think that in the deadlock you are shaping you are not the answer and people who, as you rightly say, see and judge will promote political change. He'll choose those who really bounty his needs. Those who support him and help him stand firm on his feet with vision and hope. And we are here to assume our responsibilities at this very difficult time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, too. Mrs Perka has the floor, and then Mr Kumouchakos and the Minister follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. As in all the bills you have brought, so, on the pretext of COVID, we have not been able to hear the bodies that wished to be placed. Of course, at the moment, they are demonstrating, they are outside the House, and their views will not be concealed. The other thing I note is the impossibility I have observed to the Members of the New Democracy in supporting the substance of this bill. They have all remained in the positive regulations of the European directive and we have not heard much about the contents of the directive. And, of course, you did, you used the European directive with the positive regulations to completely dismantle labour legislation. The Prime Minister has asked us how many articles you will be voting on. But you lack the theory of qualitative and quantitative difference. In every bill you bring, ladies and gentlemen of the government, your commitment to the most extreme, neoliberal policies is evident. This bill, however, is an epitome of these policies. It is known that labour degradation is an integral part of the neoliberal theory and as much as neoliberalism ignores the value of work as we believe it is the most important production power. And we don't oppose, we don't opposition you made to us, nor are we backwards and moderns, Minister. You are undermining the core of fair and decent work and you are ignoring even basic principles of Enlightenment, the basic principles of industrial relations. You are therefore introducing provisions that effectively abolish the right to strike, insulting collective autonomy. Remove the eighth hour, after you anticipate the introduction by means of an individual employer-worker contract, as if the relationship were equal, with the two above hours paying them off. Unheard of and humiliating all this. In this ideological mania toward the implementation of the Pissaridis project you choose to target young people, small, very small businesses and to lead the country's economic and social life to a past with cheap and insurmountable work, precariousness, red loans, reduction of incomes, redistribution of wealth for the richest. You have declared an unholy war against the world of work. And, of course, they are constantly reproduced by well-paid propaganda instruments, most reports of social automation and nonsense, I would say, misinformation without appropriations. Really, Minister, how many arguments does it take for a truth to shine? There's a problem. But you are ignoring - and this is very important - the serious consequences of social cohesion, which is a precarious effect on the labour market. Because we have a precarious labour market when we do not have collective bargaining. Instead of solidarity, you promote personalization, and this has serious social consequences. Workers will not be able to feel that they belong to a professional group. They are invited to organise their working life as individuals. Here I shall refer to the sociologist Serge Paugam, who says that labour market precariousness is a precarious link, that among workers. It calls this bond organic and bond of participation. This precariousness affects the bond of the family, the ties of participation and the bond of citizenship, which is based on participation in the institutional aspect of the state. Indeed, a man with precarious work how will he truly organise his family life, his free time? Or how can democracy be promoted in such a context? You're going to tell me exactly what we're trying to do. We are therefore talking about a completely anti-social and authoritarian bill which does not take into account the disparities created in the region. And here I shall refer to the launching of unemployment - Mr Hatzidakis, you have also been through the respective ministry - in Western Macedonia because there is no recovery plan in the region. You know that Western Macedonia owns the capitals in unemployment. But you know that our country also owns the second largest unemployment rate for young people in Europe with 34.2%. We are now beginning to doubt very seriously whether you understand the evidence. When you come here to support a bill that destroys collective agreements, it leads to uncontrolled redundancies, doubles new overtime, strengthens the waste hours of part-time work and devaluates the control mechanisms, starts to believe that you do not care about anything that shows that the well-being of the citizens of our country is at stake. We are now certain and it is clear that all you are interested in is serving the interests of BSE and multinationals. You are therefore coming to high unemployment and you are adding a high level of precarious work, thus creating a huge problem and new inequalities. And the worst thing is that you prefer as a solution to this problem the destruction of the stable labour system. What the Prime Minister today called the'modern working environment' is the destruction of the stable labour system. We will therefore inform you that we will find ourselves in the face of these regulations that you are legislating and referring us to a working middle age, a time of sad, brutal and confusing, followed by the industrial revolution, where hours have disappeared and holidays have been abolished. However, we must remind you that, at the time, the labour movements and ideologies based on the oppression of workers and on the greed of employers have emerged. Our progressive response will give Mr Mitsotakis the day off, and as in our previous government, we have made progress in increasing the minimum wage, abolishing the subordinate for young people, strengthening the world of work with collective agreements and effective control mechanisms, which will work against lawlessness. We will stand by society, the social majority, the democratic and progressive citizens, who are at the moment struggling to cancel your anti-government bill, together with the young, the people of hardship and insecurity, from Parliament and from all the workplaces. Many workers may today be compelled to compromise. But that doesn't mean they don't realize how their position is getting worse with this bill. That's why they're trying to collect their reaction. So we'll be with them and you'll find them and find us in front of you. Thank you, and I've been in my time for the first time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u186	The Secretary-General of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsoubas, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u187	I think we're right and we're right. The others did. Although the Bureau today did not know how it had set it up, how it informed it. In any case, it may not be a matter for the Bureau in particular. It may be the parliamentary groups, the rest of the parties, though. The speech of the Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is the greatest proof that the outcry in the legislative monstrous system is universal. In order for Mr Mitsotakis to defend the provisions of the bill, he re-enlisted the lie, the slander, the hatred towards the mobilized workers. But there, in the cruisers of ships, in factories, in other places of work you ate your face, in the ports, in various workplaces throughout Greece. This bill will stay on paper. It was the straightforward decision of the workers, even those who did not rely on the pressures of the employer, of the state and of the state mechanisms. Of course, other government centrifuges had preceeded during this today's and yesterday's and the day's proceedings. Well, you're unexplained. I address Mr. Mitsotakis: Well, where did you find these centrifuges? Inside these are Mr. Hatzidakis and Mrs. Kerameos. They say one fat lie after another without shame, without even feeling or making a simple redemption. Their cheeks do not blush, as their ancestors might feel. But you will tell me, your image is, gentlemen of the government, and they look like you, an icon of an elite class that has its flag "Your death my life". Aren't you ashamed to slander people who fight to live their families who you and your policies hold them hostages? From where and until where does the Minister of Education draw the nerve to go to the courts to the public transport unions, the teachers' clubs with a coarse lie, that they are supposed to strike and that children will not give their full-fledged examinations and that they cannot go to the examination centres? Didn't the Minister at all know that buses, trams, electric, other public transport were stationed? How did we know it through the portals, the Internet, from their own workers and unions when we asked them? They had attitudes after ten o'clock in the morning and others after one at noon today. That the subway would work from the time it starts in the morning by ten? That teachers taking part in the exams as observers or having other duties, like the officials of her Ministry of Education, were directed by the trade unions and their decision that no strikers would consider them to go to work? As far as we are concerned, what we generally say in various sectors, Mr. Minister of Labour, is what we call security personnel, as is the case here. So where are you selling these? The unrelated living room, the Cologne coffee that you often have? Because you were from Timbuktu too - because now you are going there, according to Mali, very often with missions outside the border, within NATO and other military organisations - you would still know how the labour union movement works and who is primarily interested in protecting it. Workers, employees, scientists, teachers who are fighting, first of all, are interested in their children, literally and transporting children. So let go of the provocations. These won't save you from popular anger. But a voice of oxen in the wilderness. You have come to say that even in strikes, public utility operations must operate, because otherwise the strike - it says - is directed against other workers. Do you know how many years we've heard of this? For many years, since there have been the various parrots, known strikers, ribbons, canals, others who have been shattered and repeatedly the pan-Hellenic for their attitude. They don't, of course, fall, since they're paid for it. Did the pain in the public interest catch you? Who's the one cutting off the current, the water in thousands of people's homes? Are the strikers today or yesterday? Who is he who has not hired the necessary personnel in the means of transport and, in fact, in the pandemic so that the world does not get conspiracy? The strikers? Who, really, flew off serious sick, thousands of patients outside hospitals? The doctors and nurses who claimed self-evident treatment? Who refused to charge private clinics - majesty in the pandemic? The strikers, the strikers, the strikers, the strikers in cleanliness, you know how to extend them. The clinical chiefs, so that people don't die out of the ICU, you didn't even bother them. Hypocrites and philosophers. Leave the so-called positive provisions of your bill on the abuse of women, now being treated, the parental permits, which you put as a cherry, for deafness, since other provisions below or before cancel exactly whatever positively you claim. So for the eyes of the world. If you wanted to legislate clearly, honestly, all that is necessary for the abuse of women, for the parental leave and other positive provisions proposed by the Communist Party of Greece, you would bring them separately, with an integrated debate, and not as an alibi for your backward overall bill, without canceling other provisions. But you're interested in other people. You care about the players from NATO, from Biden, from all the crows, because you have come to spend the wealth of the country, the money of the country you suck from taxpayer workers Greeks for war equipment that impose killers for aggressive actions against other peoples. Even the United States of America will be overtaken this year by war funds for equipment, according to the figures you have provided for publicity. You were second, and now you're up in first place with the earlier announcements, over the United States, at the same time as the people are hungry, they're out of business, they're shutting down their business, they're paying for their children to go to the doctor to get their medicine. Paying NATO got you horny to bomb. Because the Americans are afraid to take the lead, you see, in the economy, China and in the military equipment Russia. And you close up, their collars, and they throw you some bones, to kill peoples, and to be pleased with Erdogan about how you share the Aegean, the Eastern Mediterranean, with consideration, at the expense of sovereign rights, but also at the expense of the peace and security of the peoples. Because the multinationals, the monopolies you put together, they'll fight each other, they'll take peoples out into adventures, shed their blood. Read some history, it'll do you good. But you other things are beyond your mind rather than serving this long - suffering people. Keep an eye on him even more in your condolences and you're waiting for the anti-popular performance of your Government, for the credit for your continued unstable attack and on all fronts against working people's rights, for the memorial goals that are being captured and close to the points that no delays and setbacks are allowed. The preparation of soil for the next batch, with recommendations for a new pension hit, wages, public sector, further expansion of tax fraud. The workers are outraged. They're sick of your lies, all of you. The image of the same, well-known and appalling for the people after three memoranda, ten rounds of memoranda and so many other European semesters. And at the same time an image of the very near future of the super Memorandum that listens to the name of the Recovery Fund and adds hundreds of new barbaric measures in exchange for disbursing instalments, which will also go to large groups. On the other side of the coin the same reports speak of the low flights of the capitalist economy and the low expectations. Their assessments empty off the government’s well-known thick words about the boom it is going to eject, trying to put the people at a standstill that he will also enjoy some crumbs from the faucet of capitalist profitability. At the same time, they confirm the depth of the crisis that is not dubbed by urban policy in all its versions, while the workers, the people, always pay him the bill. Ten years with Memorandum and Memorandum Agreements, workers, people's layers experienced savage cuts in wages and rights, were loaded mountain by state loans on their backs to recover capital. Now with neo-Keyinian recipes, debt and money sharing - supposedly - new measures are being reloaded, anti-government measures such as today's draft bill, with ten-hour strike ban, obstacles to collective organisation and action, while subsidies and loans for 'green' and digital recovery are being paid off against and paid off by escalation of anti-population reforms and tax fraud. This is also what this whole debate on the reintroduction of the Stability Pact and the deficit and debt targets shows, confirming that there were neither clean restrictive or expansive management policies. That is why SYRIZA had no problem defending the memorials it passed when it ruled and the anti-government measures it legislated as a government, just as today the neoliberal New Democracy advertises the extensive state intervention, the neo-Keyinian policy of the European Union which it itself implements, even though it was before going out on the tiles for it. The expectations of all of us together, government and other parties, that green growth and the digital transformation of the economy with brave support from the state will relieve the capitalist system of its contradictions, dead ends and crises and guarantee sustainable growth with strong legs, from which they are supposed to benefit as well as capital and workers, will collapse as a paper tower. But the crucial thing is not to waste valuable time for the Greek people, for the workers. Because today they can put their stamps on these developments, strengthening their organization, alliance, unity, their struggle against and against the strategy of big capital, the government and urban parties, going through the counterattack, putting the bar to the actual height of their modern needs. Overcoming slanders, lies, threats, repression, workers, the trade union movement will come out stronger than these battles. That is why 'black' in this bill - garbage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u188	Thank you. The former Prime Minister and President of the PASOK Parliamentary Group, George Papandreou, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, from my experience, the best version of policy is to act as a creator of the future and as a framework for the formation of thinking and participants in the public, that is to say, able to contribute with their participation in addressing the major issues that concern all of us. However, this requires that we arrest the precursors of the time. Our country, for two hundred years now, is paying dearly the cost of carelessness. This is not because of the lack of smart people in politics. It is because of the lack of will to conflict with the bad texts, to say truths about our country, not to remain in the pretext of power and the management of the misery of a client system. When I was talking about the need to move to green growth in 2008 and 2009, I explained that adjustment money will be found, the money is from where it is wasted on the customer paths by hitting the opacity so that the weak and the middle class do not pay the price. But you and you, unfortunately, talked about 'green horses'. I remember in 2008, when at the 'Athens Summit' for Climate Change and Energy Security, but also later at the end of 2011, I was no longer a Prime Minister - insisting on seeing what is happening internationally and what the impact on labour will be. Then, at the UN Summit, I spoke about climate change in the South African sector and said that environmental issues are closely linked to growth, the creation of new jobs and that investment is required in the education and development of human resources, because the age that comes is constantly undergoing training and lifelong training, but, here too, it is 'key' for the bill - to feel safe and protected from healthy exploitation and not just. More and more in the new model of this sustainable development, the worker is leaving the industrial model of 'telematism', 'forumism' and goes to creative innovative offering, product and service production. And this increased productivity, due to the new technology and knowledge invested in the production process, should be translated into active redistribution and wealth, but with participation in the production process and, of course, with dignity for the worker himself. So I wonder, Minister, whether this bill honors or ultimately underestimates our country's human resources. Because, according to the data from EUROSTAT, we are in the last place in Europe in terms of the quality of working conditions. Consider what this means for both our products and our competitiveness, which you always invoke. Consider what it means to our young people who left. They'll never come back, except for vacation. However, others will leave. If you want our children to return, invest now that you have money and make a radical change in education, training, production web, research into the new professions of the 'green' economy. Also, ensure living and working conditions that are decent, similar to other European countries, where so many young Greeks and Greeks migrate. I remember being mocked by many when, at the beginning of the new millennium, I said:'socialism and barbarism'. However, ladies and gentlemen, if we do not humanise the globalised capitalist system, the phenomena of the pandemic, namely the enormous economic and social inequalities, the inequalities in access to quality health services, the inequalities in the field of education, will be intensified, but the technology which threatens to put man out of production by placing him in the margin of history. Are we going to allow all of this or plan a better human future, where our health and life will be closely intertwined with the natural environment, the rational and sustainable exploitation of goods and raw materials, with an environment where we will place technology and e-government in the service of citizens and democracy? The pandemic has raised a underlying conflict between a democratic rule of law and a state that is captive of a capital that is multiplying at unbelievable pace, while this power is concentrated in the hands of a few at even faster pace, easily capturing our democratic system. Today big capital is moving rapidly by finding tax havens or low-tax conditions and avoiding basic social obligations such as working conditions, sustainable wages, support for health infrastructures, education and insurance funds. This suffocation was experienced in 2010 with markets and tax havens, which I had often put at the summit in the European Union. Finally, "G7", a conservative in other molecules, was forced under these circumstances to talk about a single global tax on the profits of multinationals. This is a first step. However, ladies and gentlemen, if we do not humanise globalisation, the effects of refugee, natural disasters, pandemics, poverty and inequality will be intensified. All of this will result in demagogy, nationalism, intolerance and racism at a time when, for the very existence of humanity and our civilisation, cooperation, mutual understanding and solidarity are needed and required. All that we should discuss in the past twenty years has unfortunately been hidden under the veil of silence in the name of many micro-political purposes. This is an easy demagogy with your own responsibility, parties, colleagues from the New Democracy, unfortunately, and also SYRIZA. Globally, we are on a move toward the next day. Unrelenting questions that want answers. Will we hand over control of the technology, of the 'big data', of our own data, of the productive means, of the renewable energy sources, of this development to the future, of the hands of a few and of the powerful, which will, with absolute certainty, lead to a suffocation of democracy or will we talk about a new democratic 'green' path for sustainable development with a social pretext? The answer delineates the two different worlds, the two different philosophical, ideological and political thought schools that continue and will continue to clash with those who prophesyed the end of ideologies. The answer must be both internationally and at national and local level. The most important element of this conflict is the productive development model, but also the role of workers and work. We are convinced that a regulated labour market is needed with a look at everything in the future. The government's bill goes in the opposite direction to what the country needs, from what the workers need, which, if you want, the future of our country's development prospects. This is a recipe for failure and together with a lever of social disturbances. It gives the final blow to an already deregulated labour market with measures contributing to further dismantling. Just examples have been mentioned a lot and I will not consume your time in detail. The first crucial element of the bill is the fact that the adjustment of working time can be regulated not by collective but by individual contract of employment, where the employer is, of course, dominant. What we wanted as a government to avoid at the beginning of the crisis, and to a large extent we have achieved it when, at the expense of the triple deficit, budgetary balance and credibility, we have had to resort to forced lending. The worker is not protected. On the other hand, he will see in his life a reduction in his earnings, due to the lack of payment of his extra work, the limitation or elimination of the need to create new jobs and the loss of trade union freedom, the functioning, action and the circumvention of trade unions and the violation of their collective autonomy. Minister, you referred to other countries, such as Sweden and Denmark, where the 'flexicurity' system exists, i.e. the great flexibility. I can also speak from my own experience. Firstly, the terms of flexibility are decided by collective bargaining rather than by the individual employer. Secondly, if the worker is made redundant, there is a huge social network, which is not the case in our country, a network with guaranteed health services, education, children's stations, housing, continuing training and retraining. You think about the differences and the deficit in our country in relation to them and other countries. Thirdly, over 60% of workers are trade unioned, while, for example, in France they are under 20%. This attack on the trade union I hear from you has nothing to do with what needs to be done in our country, in each country, namely strong trade unions that can guarantee social cohesion, as there are in these northern countries to which you have been referring. And because I have worked as a seasonal worker in Sweden and, indeed, with many compatriots Greeks in cleaning jobs, summers to pay my studies in England at the time I was studying, I tell you I couldn't work legally if I wasn't written in the syndicate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, if you can, I'd like some more time. Do it automatically, Minister, by e-working card. Let it be written directly in the trade union if you really want to protect the worker in the country. I would remind you, of course, that the regulation on the electronic labour card was a request from the GFCM, as it can help to control and limit undeclared and alleged work. It was introduced by our Government in 2011 to create all the infrastructures that would be necessary for its implementation. Unfortunately, the next governments did not complete it. I fear, however, that your statement that you will start cowardly - cowardly by large businesses means that it will go to the bells and this provision for a large majority of workers. And if 2011 was difficult to record by e-mail, because there was not even an electronic platform, today there is no justification for the delay, since there is "ERGANIS" and legal work and all working conditions can be recorded simply and clearly. The bill effectively releases individual redundancies, removes all protection for workers and at an extremely difficult time for the labour market and society because of the pandemic crisis. The Labour Inspectorate is also set up as an Independent Authority and is no longer subject to hierarchical supervision by the Minister of Labour. I would like to ask a question to the governing party. Since when did you love the independent authorities? Did you love S.H.I.E.L.D.? But the New Democracy has done everything in its power to overcome the constitutional obligation to uphold the democratic intake in the state with the 'blue interview' - we remember - and the so-called 'STAGE'. Did you have good relations with the Independent Data Protection Authority when there were traces of civilian state surveillance? Do you embrace the Citizens' Counselor and his recommendations to the state? Do you assist the Competition Committee in its work? Did you take into account the serious objections raised by the Independent Public Procurement Authority concerning the well-founded provisions on direct awards and commissions, without competitive procedures under the pretext of pandemic? In other words, does the conversion of the Labour Inspectorate into an Independent Authority only show your own inability to contribute to a state that protects all citizens, without customer class or party criteria? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make one last point, but for me a decisive point. ILO, the International Labour Office, in a recent study points out that the reorganisation of working time requires collective bargaining with workers' representatives and, indeed, specialises in the conditions to be determined by collective agreement. They were not heard, of course, by your government, but this suggests a deeper philosophical approach not only as a neoliberal - outdated - model, but a philosophy that puts the citizen on the margin, rather than bringing him to the main stage. I say this because I think it is crucial for the future of this country and for this transition to the very difficult that all countries have before us, but also Greece. I take as an example the Recovery Fund and the way you have dealt with it. It offers, in my opinion, the possibility of creating a transition plan for Greece in the new era. It is a social agreement, a new social contract, a 'green deal' that ensures the health of humans and the world that surrounds us as a single reality, education, rights and, of course, work. I am essentially talking about a transition plan - a'revolution of self-defence', as I have called it for twenty years - which will liberate the productive and creative forces of our country. That is what will enable us to honour in practice the struggles of those who started another liberation process two hundred years ago. This transition, ladies and gentlemen, to a new era of sustainable 'green' development or to become democratic, participatory, with the citizen or not at all. Are we going to mobilise all the forces of Hellenism, namely the social partners, chambers, universities, the young Greeks in Greece and the diaspora, the research centres, and the parties, or are we going to stay halfway? Where is self-government in this Recovery Fund, which should be one of the main designers and managers of this Fund, especially the Region? Nowhere! All here, in Athens, at a client management center unfortunately. Of course, there is also a clear and immediate need to strengthen the institutional framework for regulating the labour market and the trade union in our country. Of course, Mr Minister, there are also positive arrangements in the bill, which I support. They're late to come. They show, as I said, the absence of prototypes from a large part of the political system. However, these positive arrangements cannot be used as an alibi for the negative arrangements that exist in this bill. Your bill is governed by an old conservative logic of fear against society and the worker. It does not liberate, but manipulate and demonstrate the future deadlock in which you and the country will be found, when the money will have been spent without active participation, consent, creativity, innovation and the mobilisation of Hellenism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u190	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mr Kumucako from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Kumucako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, these three days, between extremist designations, often personal - I am here opening a parentheses, as it was uncomfortable for the Secretary-General of the Communist Party, Mr Koutsoubas, when he addressed himself with extreme personal designations to the Minister of Labour - I tried through the cries of many of the opposition speakers and especially the Officerial Response, to identify its main arguments against the draft law brought by the Government for the protection of labour. I tried to interpret her political position. My conclusions in four words are: falsification, falsification, misleading and despair. Pretend, gentlemen, that you do not see, you do not know, do not understand the huge and rapid changes that have taken place worldwide in the functioning of the economy and the modern field of work. The development of new sectors of economic action, such as green development, digitisation, robotics, biotechnology and a new desirable way of life and work in the period of the fourth industrial revolution. And all this, you're pretending you don't understand it. And when I say that you're pretending I'm also diligent, because if I believe you really don't understand it, you can now see that you're inappropriate. That's all about faking. But there's also falsification. You are falsifying and deforming when you are talking about eight-hour abolition, and you know very well that this is not the case and it could not be the case. You falsify and deform when you falsely claim that free trade is abolished, while you know that what is being corrected and dealt with is arbitrariness, trade union immunity and ultimately the domination of trade unionists and workers on workers. I want to submit to the Minutes of this House a news today. I read from today's 'KATHMEMERIN':'Trade unions are threatening new ODA contracts with 'LOCKHEED MARTIN'. Fifteen - I stress, fifteen - trade unionists have banned the entry to the plant of 15 workers temporarily employed by 'LOCKHEED', while they know that no recruitment can be carried out because there is no qualified staff for it. This is the trade unionism that is not towards us, against society, against the economy. I put it in the Minutes, because it is a feature of the union that we do not want and should not all want. [[At this point Mr Georgios Koumoutsaskos presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You are also falsifying and deforming when you are talking about abolishing the protection of the worker from dismissal. This is not the case with this bill. On the contrary, protection is being strengthened. And the misunderstanding. You are deceiving or rather attempting to mislead workers, when you characterize a law as a monstrous, excretion, barbaric and suppressing, be careful, at the same time that you are actually in agreement with the hundreds of nine, if you take into account the arrangements for the APRC, of the hundred twenty-nine articles. You are denounced, in other words, as an abortion of a law with which 80% is agreed. That's called political fraud. But fraud doesn't work. It will be revealed this afternoon in a little time when the test you will be subjected to at the time of the roll-call vote will reveal the deception you have been trying for about a month. And this brings despair, political despair, as you cannot even give the battle you described as "mother of all battles" because you have no arguments, you do not present a credible alternative, you do not offer and have no prospect. With an antiquated argument you confirm that you do not want to change anything at all, while everything around is changing. You're expressors of yesterday, we're tomorrow's creators. You want, on the basis of this bill, to preach an undeniable ideological struggle based on shallow and completely outdated logic that for workers what is right is bad and what is left is good. Unbridled, shallow, outdated logic. And I want here to all of you, who are blaming us for extreme neoliberalism, that we are chasing workers, that we are a party of the employer, that I remind you of three fundamental institutional principles of our prolongation. I read: "The New Democracy will always view all Greeks as not only equal to the laws, but also equal rights towards the living opportunities and opportunities opened by political, economic and social life". I read from the same text, the historic text of the Conservative Party, the founding position: "The private initiative" says the founding declaration of the New Democracy "can't find its right without the participation of the wider popular masses in the distribution of the national product. Every citizen of this country must become a worker together with the prefecture of economic prosperity and feel quiet about his future and the future of his children." That's what our founding declaration says, that's our political affiliation, that's what we thought, that's what we'll continue to believe, that's the balance between a free economy and a strong and secure society. We say, however, that from tradition, because we are a folk and progressive party at the same time, we only maintain what time has proved right and useful and take great and bold steps in the new and constantly changing conditions. That's us. Who are you? You are making extreme, irresponsible criticism of a bill that protects the eighth, five-day, combats black work, undeclared overtime with the digital card, contributes to the balance between personal and professional life, by guaranteeing the right to electronic disconnection of the worker, raises the protection wall for women and in cases of arbitrary and harassment, enshrines rights for men, such as paternity leave, protects young workers who work with new forms of employment, such as teleworking and digital platforms and restores injustices for decades, as it recognises equal rights to workers with employees. You must realise, finally, that there are no businesses without workers or without businesses. You need to realize that the working landscape has changed rapidly especially over the past twenty years. I don't claim everything's fine. I do not claim that everything is easy for workers in the new era, in the new economic and social conditions of parallel changes. Fights must undoubtedly be given to support workers, but fights with new tools, with new proposals, with new ideas, with new approaches that match and respond at this time, not at another time that has gone backwards. You say the same thing almost half a century now. In a way, I would tell you that in the face of challenges that, in order to meet them, you need rocks. You come with bows and arrows. You are in the past, and that will lead to your defeat of politics and ideology. It's specified.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u192	Mr. Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u193	I'll be out in ten seconds. Ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, you're shouting a lot. You are shouting too much because you have the illusion that with the noise of extreme criticism you will cover the poverty of your arguments and the absence of your political alternative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u194	Mr. Comrade, you've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u195	We will vote for this bill because we are looking forward, because we are building a better future for society and for the workers. You want to limit us to being a pandemic management government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u196	I don't know how I can stop you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u197	But we confirm every day that we are a government of creation, and so we will be rewarded by the Greek people when the time comes when the elections will lead you back to the margin of the political life of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u198	Well, you haven't been well in a while, Mr. Kumucako. For the rest, life will show. The Minister for Labour, Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, whenever we have significant changes in technology, we have changes in the production process and therefore we have changes in labour relations. It is precisely then that labour legislation must intervene and regulate these new relationships. At the same time, whenever we have a change in social perceptions, that is, whenever behaviours that may have been socially acceptable, are now considered to be convicted, and this very often has an impact on what arrangements must be made on the labour market accordingly. The existing framework that we currently have is from the 1980s. I would like to say admirably that the parties from which many of them come from which I have heard in the House last three days are transparent supporters of this framework, were his fanatical wars when the relevant legislation was introduced. I am sure this framework which we say needs modernisation and I think that this legislation does exactly what it says. For example, I would like to mention. A digital working card shall be introduced, which shall constitute. It's GSEE's constant request. Measures and rules for teleworking and the right of disconnection are laid down. The field of industrial relations is regulated on digital platforms. It is equitable and the workers' compensation is increased and the employees' compensation is increased. A parental leave of fourteen days shall be established for each parent. A five-day caregiver's licence shall be introduced. Anti-violence and harassment are being introduced at work. A right to flexible working arrangements for children up to 12 years of age is hereby established. The list of cases of invalid dismissal is widened by protecting workers even more. And, and, and, and... The Minister for Labour, Mr Hatzidakis, mentioned all of this in detail. I'd rather not go on with this. I understand, of course, that rhetoric in the public debate in Greece has always been pushed towards overreacting. Nevertheless, I would like to ask whether all the previous ones I mentioned are what I have repeatedly heard from many speakers, particularly on the SYRIZA side, that is, a middle-aged worker, jungles and galleries. Let's get better. I do not want to leave the controversial issue of working time regulation, which I think has been the biggest part of the dialogue. This is something that already exists in Greece since the 1990s. It is something that covers the majority of workers in many - perhaps in most - European countries. I was very surprised that in the debate that took place here, this issue was isolated from the most important regulation that this bill brings. It's about the digital paperwork card. Mr Kourublis mentioned earlier to the bad employers and said not all employers are bad ones. But there are also bad employers. It really is. The Prime Minister mentioned earlier in his speech and said that an important part on the Greek labour market works in businesses where eight hours can be outlawed, working tens that are completely unpaid. That's exactly where the big change comes. With the digital working card. This extra day-to-day hours should either be paid as a overworking or overtime, or exchanged with a day off on another day or not at all. Compared to the existing scheme, the three cases are much more favourable to the worker. More generally, ladies and gentlemen, we want competitive businesses and at the same time we want protection of workers. Finding the golden incision between these two poles is not always an easy case, but I think this bill goes very much in this direction. Finally, I should like to address three specific issues. The first relates to a specific amendment which has been included in this bill. This is Amendment No 932/65 on the transfer of actuarial equivalent. Based on the arrangements of this amendment, the way to solve a problem that has been open for over five years and has led to a deadlock of people who have worked mainly in European and international organisations and have not been able to transfer their insurance rights to the Greek pension system on the basis of the provisions of Union law. I would like to stress that this is a highly complex and technical issue for which systematic and multi-month work was required by a working group within our ministry. The previous transfer arrangement equivalent to the provisions of Laws 592/1998 and 3865/2010, as amended from time to time, remained practically inapplicable because the ministerial decisions were incomplete and, furthermore, because there were no arrangements to integrate the provisions of Law 4387/2016. With this amendment we are opening the way to a solution for a problem which has been afflicted and which has been afflicted. I call on all Members to vote on it as it is a regulation that has only positive implications for our insurance system, the insured but also our position in complying with European rules. The other two issues to which I wish to refer are as far as we are concerned, so we need him and a dialogue. I was very surprised that yesterday some of the SYRIZA speakers, Mr Papapas and Mr Haritsis, who were mentioned by name to me, but also other Members, reiterated that the Pissaridis report is based on a reduction in wages. No more untrue. The Pissaridis report is trying to highlight radical reforms that will achieve two objectives. They will increase investment in the Greek economy and, above all, increase productivity. Let's not be fooled. It is only the wage increases that are accompanied by an increase in productivity which may last. We have seen this repeatedly in Greece where we have made wage increases without corresponding increases in productivity. Our country is an open economy. This has brought down competitiveness. We were in trouble with the current account balance and any benefits after a while were depleted. We have seen this in Greece many times. The last point of the three I want to make is in the sense of flexibility. A demonification was systematically attempted by the SYRIZA of this concept. I must exclude the Members of the Change Movement who listened yesterday and Mr Papandreou. Flexibility is something that can be particularly positive and can have mutual benefits for both businesses and workers. We've seen it in many countries. If we go to the databases of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, which is clearly seen there, it is those countries which have a great deal of flexibility that have low unemployment, high participation in the labour force and very high employment. These countries are not neoliberal, as most people tell us. Social Democrats are most of them. I shall refer to something else that SYRIZA referred to. We had no development between 20013 and 2018, during the experience of the governance of SYRIZA. Unemployment did not begin to decline in 2015, as some speakers said yesterday. Since mid-2013, it has started to decrease. In this period from 2013 to the end of 2018, the economy was about the same in terms of growth. What has helped reduce the unemployment rate by 10 points? It was precisely this introduction of flexicurity measures to the Greek labour market. Don't be afraid of flexibility. It's a good thing. It's not bad. Does she want her setup? Yeah, she wants it. And that's what we're trying to do. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the Greek economy and society need good working conditions that will create prospects for workers. The Greek economy also needs strong and, above all, competitive businesses. This draft law contributes in this direction. And let us not forget that the 2021 solution is not a return to 2009. It's the fleeing forward. And that's what we need to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u200	Mr President, I would like to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u201	You're welcome. I can't help it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u202	Although you'd like to, you can't remove him from me, like you said. You're going to get a misunderstanding. First of all, as the debate is closed, I would like to make a point, referring to the Minister. If the loneliness were colored, Minister. It seems to me that a bill that you call it top reform did not support other central government officials. They are indeed one of the rare cases that lack the government's strong names in defending this "principal" reform. Anti-reformation in substance. I imagine it may be related to the fact that you, too, have realised it. Perhaps you would like to spend much lower on this subject with the popular outcry, the one that is being confirmed at the moment with the thousands of workers who are protesting against what you are going to do and who will continue the fight until it is inactive and abolished by a next government. It is not, Mr Tsakloglu, too much the rhetoric of opposition forces and SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Excessively, your reforms are yours. Because in fact, with what you are introducing for the first time in labour law, which you are hitting its core, we are leading to a different level, a different quality of relations, where work is rapidly downgraded. Since you have referred to Mr Pissaridis, precisely in the name of the reforms, you are aiming to reduce - and you have said so in other words - labour costs as a means of increasing competition, which is what has been misguided as a whole in Europe in particular. Because Greece, in one way or another, even as a weaker economy, must be compared to European economies. Nowhere, then, has that been confirmed at the moment. On the contrary, we have our own recent experience with the memorial policy, the extreme austerity policy, the plan of internal devaluation, which has led to a disinvestment, a reduction in jobs and have not led to increased competition. So, why that obsession? This is, therefore, a neoliberal dogmatism, spooked, molded, outdated, which is even more outdated on the basis of the conclusions from the pandemic. Because pandemic, if it reminded us of something, is the value of organized intervention by the state and the public, to get out today - and that is what is required - of the deep economic crisis, not only in Greece. And you see that under pressure of reality the extremist neoliberals were forced to "shoot their wine". What else is the Recovery Fund? The practice of debt sharing. "The hairs are lifted" by Shoeble and neoliberals. Why are they doing it? Changed? No, they want to close that parentheses. They do so under pressure from reality, which is just coming to remind us that public investment and a plan are needed and that self-regulation of the market is not enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u204	Mr President, I should like to speak - I assume - as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u205	Here you go, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u206	Mr President, I too would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u207	Minister, I'll give you the floor later. But if we start like this and one starts answering the other, we won't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, you will also give me the floor for three - four minutes, you will not cut me off.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u209	No, I'm not cutting you off, Mr. Comrade. Time is there. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. We are watching a debate and a insistence on the government that 'the conditions have changed, developments'. But there is no government that does not invoke developments. And it does well to invoke developments. The question is elsewhere, if synchronisation with developments is done on the basis of the principles, beliefs, rules and values that need to be adapted. If adaptation is done under the pressure of economic interests, with a reduction in the policy and rules, without values and principles which have to do with social justice, with the objectives of social cohesion, it is obviously outside the scope of our own. That is why we criticise you that the changes and everything called "reforms" are not governed by basic principles and values that focus on humans, with respect for the environment. Secondly, I have taken the floor. Many have referred to the government's notorious threat to ODA. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, this is a specific issue in the ODA. They say that those who are engaged in the high-skilled projects, which are specific programmes for our country's cooperation and participation at international level, should be workers who will remain in the ODA, so that the know-how remains, so that the added value can be increased the company's dynamics and competitiveness. Not to be the tourists or the seat of companies that will come and leave with the know-how, along with what needs to stay at our place. So listen to the different voice in this case. It's neither a syndicate reaction nor anything anti-national. It is national, and with this patriotic dimension, the government must see it, and not with voices on the part of the Minister for Development, who, at the bottom of the scripture, is neither the shareholder of EAW nor anyone responsible for national defence programmes. With regard to the amendment relating to defence systems, we will vote in favour, even though it is repeated and the solution to the problem is different. We have already pointed this out. I conclude with the amendment from the Ministry of Labour, which has very positive provisions, but also has a provision that needs to be withdrawn. Our President has asked you to do so, too, from the Step of the House. There needs to be a dialogue with ESDC and other bodies to see this. It is an issue that needs discussion. However, you cannot cut off the allowance for disabled children on the takeover without having ensured such planning to see their luck. And not all disabled children, even 20 years of age...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u211	Please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u212	...but they can work and not work. If there is such a thought, it will unfortunately be to withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u213	Thank you. Mr Challogo, you have the floor, in the hope that there will be no new dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u214	I'll take the floor for a minute to answer Mr. Skourlet. I sincerely believe that none of you have read the conclusion of the Pissaridis Commission. I honestly believe that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u215	I'll testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u216	To testify doesn't say anything. It says the whole opposite of what you say to me. Secondly, because there is a 'caramella' for neoliberalism and I hear it all the time, philosophically what does 'neo-liberal' mean? It is a neoliberal one who believes in self-regulation of markets. He doesn't want any of the arrangements we put here. Saying that I "promote neoliberalism" goes on to say you don't understand what you're saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u217	Mr President, I would like the floor for some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u218	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u219	I would like to put forward the legal improvements, the second and last packages in peace, in order to facilitate the services. It is still not some that are major interventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u220	In order to facilitate the debate in relation to something Mr Kegeroglu said, there is also a legislative improvement on the issue that has just been raised for disabled children. But then the State Secretary responsible will talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u221	Mr. Kegeroglu will see that he's an expert.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u222	I only owe you the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u223	Let's finish with them, because sometime the process will be over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u224	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u225	We're continuing with Mr. Arvanitides from the Change Movement. Mr Arvanitides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u226	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for two years now some people have been trying to convince us that the New Democracy has salted into the central area. It is supposed that with its policies, it cares better and represents the interests of the middle class. It is also supposed to bring us, the Change Movement, in a difficult position. For some even we're supposed to have no reason to exist as a party, because they're able to choose the easy opponent, SYRIZA, the biggest sponsor perhaps at the current juncture of the New Democracy Government. Also, some people want to show New Democracy as the party of the major reforms. While more recently the New Democracy Government has also started to become a progressive force. It seems that as they discovered green growth, more than ten years later, the same neat discovers and progressive governance. But the New Democracy's history and "transitional DNA" has shown us that none of this is true. And the biggest and most dramatic proof that not all of these central accounts and the traditional constructions of the New Democracy apply is this particular working bill that brings today to Parliament's vote. Nowadays, any progressive office of government is falling apart. Today the new deep neo-conservation is emerging. The arguments for individual positive provisions that come to incorporate European directives I think they do not save the situation. They're in the bill to gold the pill. And the Minister, Mr. Hatzidakis, follows the same practice. As the anti-environmental bill, along with European energy directives, brought this year's anti-laboratory bill together with European directives and sanctions for contracts. The Minister's insistence on lighting up these minimally positive ones cannot hide the substance of the bill. And the essence is that the core of this bill is a counter-reformation brought by the New Democracy for industrial relations. This is an anachronistic direction that the New Democracy wants to lead the country as a whole and the way it develops. In the Change Movement we do not simply disagree with this working draft, we disagree ideologically and overall with the development model promoted by the New Democracy Government for the post-COVID era. We have another perception of the country's productive reconstruction. The New Democracy is aware of the development in terms of immunity of the powerful and exploiting the weak. The government is trying to improve Greece's competitiveness by pushing labour. Let us deal with energy, with energy costs, let us deal with the cost of money, let us deal with innovation if it really wants to lead to another level of development. It treats workers as a cost rather than a capital. The government does not want to invest in the knowledge and skills of human resources. Instead of creating conditions for returning the trained young people abroad, unfortunately, with their choices, I think that the exit of these people will accelerate. It is a deep neo-conservative school of thought that wants the economy to recover into a third-world labour model and workers in constant fear and insecurity. It is not a sustainable model of growth that wage squeeze and the weakening of trade and labour rights is not a viable model of growth. This will not increase neither the productivity nor the competitiveness of the Greek economy. The new developer who sits behind the screen of a computer setting algorithms wants to pay well and in time his work and overtime and not take the day off to collect olives and complete his income. This policy you are following increases the inequalities and premiums the strong employers. You are undermining social and employment peace, which is also the key to allowing the real changes in our production model to be accepted quickly and effectively. Bring anti-laboratory measures without a plan for decent work and healthy entrepreneurship. We are leading to a reduction in workers' incomes and problems and crises in family life. At the same time that you support conferences on fertility that "symbol naphthalene" and give the tone of this new maintenance that you are evangelizing everywhere in every area of the country's economic and social life. These are unprecedented things which, unfortunately, Minister, have heard that workers will be paid off. Even the global economic saying that says “time is money”, you have come to do it “time is off”! Instead of discussing new social liberation and performance measures for dividend workers from technological progress, we see your otherwise progressive government abolishing eight hours, facilitating redundancies, hitting trade liberties, unbundling labour law. To us are priorities for protecting workers' rights, strengthening collective bargaining, creating new jobs, basic income, increasing minimum wages, protecting workers on digital platforms. These are elements of a progressive labour policy, contrary to the plans and actions of your neo-conservative government, the Government of New Democracy. We are convinced that technological developments in the fourth industrial revolution must benefit workers and not at their expense, as New Democracy unfortunately reserves them with this bill. The era of teleworking and the new conditions after the pandemic is not an opportunity to attack labour rights. It is a time to reduce inequalities and to support workers. It is the wrong approach and it is a dangerous policy on social cohesion and sustainable development. It's a complete return to the past, a return through a neo-conservation that belongs to you. And this neo-conservation has absolutely nothing to do with the progress and needs of the middle class. This is not a progressive policy. And that's not how no green digital transformation comes into the economy. That is why we are also voting against this working draft law which will also mark your term of office as a government. The stigma will be clearly neo-conservative. With this choice we are completely incompatible and incompatible as a party that has made the major reform areas in the country by modernising society and the economy. That's why we're not getting out of this neo-conservation of yours! And this anti-government bill is going to be annulled in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u227	Thank you for the time, Mr Arvanitidis. Mrs. Vetta from SYRIZA will now take the floor. And the Deputy Minister, Mrs Michaelidou, follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Labour's bill is a negative part of the country's social and labour reality. It shows in the clearest way a timeless division, a conflict of interest between two worlds. On the one hand it is the world of work and healthy entrepreneurship, the people who want to ensure socially acquired - stereotypes today characterised by Mr Mitsotakis - who wants to ensure human rights, stable work, decent wages, the right to strike and trade unionism, the people who want to ensure the right to schol, leisure, sport, socialism, the people who are interested in and anticipate the increase in wages that are observed internationally, as well as the discussions on the reduction of working time, which brings positive results to productivity, consumption and the quality of human life. It's the world that's protesting out there today. On the other hand, there are the major business interests, the BSE leaders we saw in the bill, such as in every bill of the New Democracy Government, the portrayal of their most muscular desires. It is the world based on deregulation of work, stripping and full personalization of the relationship between employer and worker, the world that has proved to be paralysing. They are the ones in short expecting the compression and depreciation of work to produce the over-profits that will be created. Today, with the "draft bill" which the government brings to Parliament with the chief specialist in such decisions as the Minister of Labour, Mr. Hatzidakis, the New Democracy fully serves the interests of the latter. Here's a phrase from Breecht 'the full ones talk to the hungry about the great times that will come'. I will briefly list a few key points in order to understand the scanning transformation in the work that will take place tomorrow. It is planned to abolish the eighth by applying 10 hours of work, while reducing wages, as will arise from the individual contract between the employer and the worker. Let me just mention that scientific bodies, trade unions, trade unions and federations, collectives, the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, even workers' MPs of the New Republic, say that the relationship between an employer and a worker is by definition unequal, particularly in conditions of unemployment, with a record of 1.2 million two hundred thousand unemployed. Overtime doubling with much less compensation for workers than the existing one. Even for parttime workers, even parttime workers, who can now work a quarter in the morning and one in the afternoon. Uncontrolled misappropriated dismissals are allowed, as the reoccurrence obligation is abolished, the compensation and interest on late payment in the event of a judicial right for a worker is paid. Now, a bad employer can fire anyone. Although, when a worker is entitled to a pension, there is no longer an obligation to re-entry or to pay the statutory fees to date. Restriction of the right to strike and target trade union activity. Extension of the abolition of the Sunday holiday for thousands of workers. Degrade the Labour Inspectorate by exempting direct state supervision for this sector. I will only tell you this: in the first quarter of 2021 we had twice as many fatal accidents as since 2020. You understand what is going to happen with full liberalisation of working hours, especially vulnerable workers. I would also remind you that the first act of the New Democracy was to reduce the fines of the Labour Inspectorate. The New Democracy Members often invoke harmonisation with certain European regulations to justify themselves in voting for the bill, artificially forgetting that the country is lacking in indicators, such as the percentage of European Union workers' participation in collective agreements, which is 60%, while in our country it is 14% and it is certain that the new regulations will go even lower. Unemployment in our country is 16%, when in the European Union it is 7.3%. With the minimum wage in our country, a worker has the fifth worst purchasing power in the European Union. Finally, we are the only country in the European Union that has a lower wage than in 2010, while the only increase of 11% took place in 2018 on SYRIZA. This is the work reality that the government wants to deregulation even further. Ladies and gentlemen, since July 2019, we have been bombarded with reports of individual responsibility at both political and ideological level. For example, for poverty it is the poor who makes wrong choices, it is not because of limiting social and educational mobility because of specific political options. It is for the pandemic that he is conspiring in public transport and in his workplaces, as if he had another choice. For infertility the woman, like a couple chooses to bring children into the world or not, regardless of what happens in the housing market, work or unemployment, to support the state or its absence. We read yesterday, for example, in a newspaper that two out of three young people are still staying with their parents. Apparently, they too have the individual responsibility that hard work is poorly paid, decent houses expensively and the cost of life rises. We realized that it's all the man's fault and his choices. There's no society. Moreover, each worker will be to blame because he will not make good individual contracts with his employer. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President, for a while. It's nothing new. Not everyone has the same rights. Social equality is contrary to human nature, the Prime Minister told us in 2017 and his Government confirms it every day. However, nothing is legislative and irreversible. The grand strike Thursday, today, the accumulation of rage, opposition and protest will find a political way out. We are addressing society and committing that this law will be lifted immediately once political correlations allow it and a progressive government comes to power. Let everyone be sure: This development will come as soon as possible than anyone thinks or desires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u229	It is now up to the State Secretary for Labour, Mrs Michailidou, to speak for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, can you tell us who the next speakers are?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u231	Immediately after that is Mr. Janakopoulos and you follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u232	You said that we would conclude at 7 p.m. and have had a vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u233	Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u234	Ladies and gentlemen, the last legislative intervention to regulate employment relations in a somewhat final way took place in 1982, thirty-nine years ago. Since then, tectonic changes in world production and economy have occurred, which have fatally led to new forms of work, more flexible, more flexible, adapted to the new needs and demands of the times. The size of the changes one sees, it is enough to think that today we are living in the fourth period of the industrial revolution, that today there are companies that 100% of their turnover is on the Internet, when in 1982 there was no internet, teleworking was something incomprehensible, the structure of the Greek economy and production differently, jobs had a completely different profile. In the face of this reality, the Greek state has in the past made some individual interventions, but they were attempting to respond to the challenges, to alleviate the problems rather than to deal with them. However, the deregulation of the labour market is profound. Labour relations need a new regulatory framework. So we are attempting this piece of legislation, a planned and balanced effort to update labour legislation by the Ministry of Labour, primarily aimed at protecting work. I really leave the unpaid work, the removal of the eighth, the return to the 19th century and the return to work in the middle ages." They are the usual reactions, unfortunately, of a sterile counterpopulation, which refuses to see reality and insists on an anachronistic model, up - below - forty years, which is also proven inadequate. But that's not all. The bill also includes a number of provisions which were either permanent claims of the labour movement, either strengthening and expanding the work protection net or correct injustices. Well, we've got to talk, then. Digital Paper Digital Labour Card: Fixed GSEE request for years. This is a digital weapon in the hands of the worker, which guarantees that the working hours are observed, guarantees that the eighth is observed and that working time is adjusted in the way the worker wishes himself. It is also a pioneering tool for controlling undeclared and undeclared work, which protects against unfair competition from workers and employers. The same target, that of transparency and control, serves to upgrade the control mechanism to an Independent Administrative Authority. The new Labour Inspectorate will no longer be under the government's authority, and the Minister will only be able to intervene in any way in checks. Away from political or other purposes and with the authority of the independent authority, it will carry out checks and punish interventions. The opposition to unconstitutionalism is at least funny, I'm afraid. The independent authorities are institutions of the state which are not under the supervision of the political leadership in question, and that is exactly what makes them credible. In addition to this, this bill is finally attempting to get a class in the field of teleworking, a form of work that the pandemic has come to stay and undeniably needs regulation. That's what we're doing. We see that teleworking can only be imposed on workers if public health so requires. It shall apply only when the worker so wishes and has the assent of the employer. We'll have to let everyone and everyone make their own life plan. There's no need to patronize attitudes and choices. Teleworking must neither be imposed nor prohibited. In Greece we are the first countries of the European Union and the OECD to legislate and the right to decouple, thereby protecting the eighth and five-day working with respect for the personal and professional life of the workers. However, I would like to focus on two elements of the bill, which are true that there have been no wider comments from the opposition, and that is because they are not offered for complaints, either because they are welcome speeches, or because they are considered to be self-evident. I am referring to the two provisions aimed at supporting family and fertility and dealing with violence and harassment at workplaces. What does the bill provide for? Expansion of parental leave and the introduction of new ones by the'social analgesic' New Democracy. The aim is twofold: equal treatment of the sexes is established in relation to their parental role, while also trying to balance family and working life. For the first time, there is a four-month parental leave, of which both are paid for both sexes, for both parents. For the first time, there is a 14-day paternity leave with remuneration. It extends the reduced working hours to mothers who have had a child in the process of parentality and gives parents and caregivers up to twelve years of age the right to choose flexible working schemes, as they want to. For the first time, the right to leave for nine weeks and to the special maternity protection permit for six months and subsidized by the OAED is recognised for the first time. You will allow me to emphasise the importance of this provision, and only because it could work as a relief to all of our fellow citizens who would like to adopt a child who lives in an institution today. Indeed, I welcome this provision in my role as State Secretary for Social Affairs having made a great, very great effort to strengthen the institution of adoption and acceptance. I would like to say a few words on the amendment to which the opposition referred yesterday and today. In particular, with regard to the amount of the assumption allowance, let us say that the allowance is for the first time granted throughout the territory by this government, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Despite any legislative provisions that had not been adopted, no applicable Minister had ever been provided for. So how did we structure this allowance? For children of formal development we give - and I stress - why the platform has been operating for weeks - EUR 325, automatically and horizontally, monthly. For children with disabilities, we provide a basis for EUR 375 and we increase this amount to the full amount of the disability allowance that each person is entitled to, so that at last the fostering parents receive the child's disability allowance as a lawful allowance. Therefore, the EUR 375 cumulative allowance can exceed EUR 2 000 in the case of multiple disabled persons. Here too comes the legislative technique, which the Minister tabled a moment ago, which does not set an age limit on the assumption of foster children with disabilities. What we understand as the plan of the previous government, unfortunately, was an allowance that started from EUR 325 and reached EUR 1,063 in the event of the recipient child's disability. On the contrary, our own system, a system which exists and is not in the context of fantasy, meets the real needs of disabled children and their families and can exceed EUR 2 000. Apart from these measures, the draft law gives another social dimension to its content. It introduces anti-violence and harassment measures at the workplace. Our obligation is to protect the world of work from unacceptable behaviour and that is what we are doing. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill extends the acquired rights of workers and adapts them to the new data on the international labour market, with the sole aim of strengthening their protection. Not only does it serve employers' interests, but it upgrades the control mechanism to limit employer arbitraryness and infraction, and makes the employer responsible for the safety of his workers. With the drafting of the bill, we didn't discover the powder. We have proceeded with ratification of international conventions protecting work and we have exploited good European and global practices to prevent developments and to win the future for future generations. That is why we must vote by a large majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u235	Thank you to the Minister for the time. We are now continuing with Mrs Kasimatis from SYRIZA, followed by Mrs Adamopoulou from Mera 25. Then we have two colleagues from WEBEX, then they are the rapporteurs with a second word and the Minister will close. Mrs Cassimatis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u236	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to reply to Mr Tsakloglu in what he said about neoliberalism and the regulation that this bill brings, and that is why he is not neoliberal. It is very characteristic in this bill that even the few regulations that are positive - and I am not talking about the directives and international conditions, which would in any case be introduced into the Greek legal system - all these positive arrangements concern the worker as a person and not as a collective, father, mother, etc. The worker is decoupled, the worker's identity is reassessed as a productive relationship in society that is together with other people, claims, produces, participates. This is the main, this is the neoliberal soul of this bill. That is why I have brought you some courses from foreign universities and the Internet on individual negotiations: “Salary negotiation for women”, how women will negotiate to increase their wages, to get some permission. for anything. That's what it's gonna take, 'cause the union's missing. So that's your logic. First of all, I would like to welcome the gathered today for this bill in the Constitution, the seafarers in Piraeus and the pan-Hellenic, who are strikers despite the sabotage attempted by the bosses, your bosses, as recently revealed by a shipowner, and of course I welcome the announcement of the coordinator of the students, who exposing irreparably the Minister of Education against the today's strike of workers from allegedly interested parties in the exercise of the pan-Hellenic examinations, when you decided to discuss and vote on your anti-corruption bill - slaughterhouse in the middle of a pan-Hellenic examination and when you have first ruled out thousands of students from a position in the universities of the country, setting up this year! - the basis for admission and by closing university institutions. We're talking about students, who in the last two grades of high school came up against and faced with the overthrow of all normality because of the pandemic and claim their lives. You really need to feel very uncomfortable in the government with the new generation, with this new generation and the association of forces that it expresses, because it is thoughtful and politicised, because you realize that, instead of using the material terms, which are objectively provided by the fourth industrial revolution and digital transformation, to expand educational and labour rights, you are shrinking them. And that's what you did in the second Piracy, deviating from the children of Perama and Keratini who choose the street, any children who want to choose the way of vocational education to go to a school, depriving them of their school, the EPA, of which free access was interrupted to serve Attica as a unique model. I invite you and here to take this decision back, because it is across the whole society of Piraeus II and to give the school back to the children who need it to get out of the labour market, because this area has been unresolved with unemployment and lock-up since 2010. Mr. Minister of Labour, Mr. Hatzidakis, working as it is called post-mortem, as well as your bill of supposed protection of work, and it abolishes all progress at work and social rights that have been legislated in the 20th century in the country, starting from Eleftherios Venizelos, with some good times in the Transfer of Constantine Karamanlis and Rallis in the face of change and, of course, in that light the social and labour rights of the Government of Andreas Papandreou. You are also legislating against the legal world of the country that denounces you. You know the Athens Bar Association isn't SYRIZA. You are abolishing the eighth hour, increasing overworking, unpaid work, maintaining the law of the complaint, i.e. dismissal, evacuating the APRC as a state, collective bargaining and trade liberties which are conditional on the exercise of the trade union rights protected by the Constitution, but also by the first article of this draft law that ratifys the ILO Convention 190 and which is expressly defined as an obligation for the Member States to promote and implement fundamental principles and rights at work, namely trade union freedom and effective, not in English, so it is written in English with this word - recognition of collective bargaining. And I really want to see whether you will vote on this article, Mr Hatzidakis, because if you vote on this, you simply cannot vote on Articles 55-63 on the enforcement of the working time arrangement and Articles 82-97 which amend the v. 1264/1982 and the basic arrangements under the Collective Labour Law of our country. We told you since November 2019 in the Constitutional Review that we had proposed the constitutional safeguarding of the basic principles of the Collective Labour Law, which during the crisis were severely affected, because we knew of the bottleneck, with which you would be re-engineering to be deprived of the Greek society and the workers, and that is what you did. Of course, today with the monstrosity that you want to vote on the specialization of the measures may be domestic, dictated by BSE, which once again confirms the Panagiotis Panagiotis Trouble on the decline and misfortune of the urban element in modern Greek society, in order to characterize the material and spiritual capital that governs the country through you and by promoting, in accordance with their own interests, its objectives, by displaying a characteristic delay and heterodorism in relation to international trends. The deepening of neoliberal deregulation and the deproduction of the country since 1990 with a break between 1993 and 1995 until 2009-2010-2014, which led us to the crisis and bankruptcy, is now continuing again. And the domestic capital, which still doesn't know anything about the murder, goes on. Only in 2021, after the war of the pandemic crisis, now looks like the post-war 1950s and 1960s, where in Greece the post-war state of the right and the captive capital is not present in the stronger labour law internationally and in the construction of the universal social state, as is done in the Western social formations after the common tragic experience of the Second World War. So now at the dawn of a new situation that is formed after the pandemic, where everyone is reviewing their less or more standing positions, you are not just watching or anything, but together you are wrong, you condemn the country, the economy, the society in a delay and the people in misery. Unfortunately, I do not have time to give you the special examples that I have prepared, but I would advise you, Mr Ministers, to read the special report on the future of ECONOMIST's work, which is your own viewpoints, to see that many of the arrangements that you are currently bringing are against the trend that is being shaped at the moment, which is being shaped and born questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mrs. Kasimatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u238	There is a process of redefining and restoring economic governance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u239	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u240	But, Minister, you will speak at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u241	I don't want to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u242	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u243	I didn't mean to close. I just wanted to present our views on the amendments. We accept the two amendments tabled. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] We accept Amendment No 925 and Amendment No 58 by Mr Manossos Voloudakis, concerning an amendment to Articles 25 and 33 of the draft law. It's for the Souda American Base workers in relation to parental leave and so forth. That's the point. We also accept Amendment No 941 and Amendment No 70 by Mr Lazaridis on a regulation on aid to enterprises in eastern Macedonia and Thrace. We are only accepting these two amendments. Not all others are accepted by the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Now, Mrs Adamopoulou Angeliki from Mera25 has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, your bill is obviously the time of a foretold violent death. You came with this bill to kill in cold blood all the working rights left over from extinction and the deregulation of the New Democracy Government with its obscene policies, a government which, for two years now, has shown a profound commitment to the mobilisation of employment conditions, the further elasticization of working hours, the strengthening of the regulatory right, a government that has been literally degrading collective labour agreements and collective bargaining. You know, in 1983, a global-success television "The Next Day" was released, which showed how the world would be the next day after an alleged global nuclear disaster. Unfortunately, your "short day" is not a fictional product, because you are actually coming with this bill to install a real dystopia in the working situation in Greece. And what are you doing with this bill? First of all, you are destroying every concept of working acquis and canceling centuries of struggles. You are obsessed with the right to strike, which from a real means of self-protecting the worker, you are turning it into an abusive behaviour. You are staggering the employers' lock out and, of course, you are obsessed with the trade union right by establishing compensation for civil liability by mocking the ears on the 'yes men' and on the strikers. You are setting up an individual working time arrangement through the individual working contracts where there is obviously no exchange rate of the parties, but the employee must comply with the terms of the working time imposed on him by the employer by exercising his regulatory right. And of course you are establishing the unpaid ten-hour, which instead of rewarding it with an additional fee, you are simply giving the day off. What else are you doing? Remove Sunday holidays, impose forced unpaid leave, release working hours in general and impose the waste hours on part-time workers, leave redundancies uncontrolled by setting what? That what most of the judicial decisions will no longer apply is that in the event of unlawful, invalid and abusive dismissal, the employer will have an obligation to pay the payroll and also to reinstate the worker. That's what you're coming and you're removing it. You are effectively exempting this obligation from the obligation of employers. And, of course, the most scandalous, in my opinion, the worst provision of all is the provision that provides for the independence of the Labour Inspectorate, which will essentially be a politically controlled body, because finally let this pragmatism end with the independent authorities. We have seen where the independent authorities like the ADP have come up with. Indeed, since you took over governance, the audits of the Labour Inspectorate have been substantially reduced, despite the fact that it is an institution, according to information from workers' representatives, of the Ministry of Labour itself. This is a House which, over the last three years, had carried out over twenty-five thousand 25 000 controls, imposed fines of over EUR 75 million and the revenues of the public fund came about EUR 25 million. At the moment, you really want to cut off the Labour Inspectors' Corps from the Ministry of Labour, not intervene, not be subject to the hierarchical control of the Ministry of Labour, to abolish the tripartite reconciliation procedures and commander, of course, a person who will be subordinate to the Grand Maximos, who will not carry out any real checks, in order to cash out his chair's note, because he will be a chair. In fact, it will dismantle controls by opaque procedures, not to say genuinely set-up procedures, an instrument whose approximately thirty-fifths of five-35 responsibilities you have set within just four pages. So it will be a real "Hatzivat luxurious" that won't ruin carpets on New Democracy's buddies. At a time of extreme unemployment where Greece actually presents top levels of redundancies in relation to the other Member States of the European Union, you, instead of coming now and trying to ensure stable and secure jobs with decent wages, are swelling, you are increasing even more precariously with this draft roadmap and you want to turn the workers into modern ilodies. You want to return the work situation in Greece to the 19th century model, in a state of work for a working fan and jungle, when in the rest of the Western world what they do is to reduce working time without parallel wage cuts. You want to turn Greece into a regression pouch, because in your political vision, what should prevail in Greece is exploitation, a country with collars, a country with chips. Minister, I will also have to make a personal reference to you, because my information - and if it is not valid - has been disproved by other colleagues - is that your own professional experience is limited to the framework of party tricks as a partisan professional. It is incomprehensible for you to go out on the canals to move the finger in society and counterpopulation, to try to overthrow this bill at the moment, to make the white as if it were the kotorinith of the Greek people and not to understand, instead of going out honestly at least, even with cynicism, saying that this bill is, according to employers' interests, an indication of the Greek Industrial Association. So you insult the collective intelligence in trying to overthrow this bill. Your worldview, which is a worldview of the whole government, is cynical, because it perceives the worker as a persuasive submissive who cannot combine personal and professional life with his will, is in real confusion, is within the limits of physical and mental exhaustion, cannot even collectively organize his claims and his defences, since at the moment you are putting a tombstone on trade union rights, on the right to strike. So he will be disfellowshipped from himself and from his surroundings. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A bit of your tolerance, Mr President. I'll be done in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u246	I'll beg no, 'cause I'm late to put time. I should now like to say on this occasion that you will be able to conclude, because soon there will be a crowd in the Chamber. At eight o'clock we must make the roll-call vote. It's agreed. Two hundred and ten210 Members have spoken. It will be forty-four44 hours of meeting that all of us had a comfortable time, long time the Chiefs, so warm request to close in a minute, which shows tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u247	I shall conclude, Mr President, even though there was a former Minister who spoke ten minutes, but I shall be closed soon. So you want the modern man, the homo sapiens, to turn him into a working animal rather than a free man. You want to turn him into a man who doesn't live to think, but he'll literally live to work. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, in this bill you have left all alone not only in Parliament, but you have been isolated from the vast majority of Greek society. There are many who reacted to the bill, Minister. I asked you to support collective agreements and trade union rights. If you are left with the elementary, minimal patriotic conscience, you owe this bill today to vote against it, because it is an inhumane project, a barbarism plan, which it wants? He wants the job to be a survivor in which the survivors of barbarism will get the prizes. Minister, you're withdrawing this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mrs Adamopoulou. Mrs Theodora Augeris has the floor from the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Hot request: As you do not see the bell, put the clock next to the seven minutes so that you have completed. You have the floor, Mrs. Aegir.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that because of my vaccination in Thessaloniki I could not attend the plenary sitting today to speak by living. But my word and "no" in this law joins the word of all those who resist...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u250	Closer to the microphone, Mrs. Auger, to sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u251	Don't I?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u252	Closer to the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u253	Can you hear me now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u254	We're listening. I'm giving you no time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u255	I don't know if you heard my introduction or if I have to repeat it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u256	Keep going. We heard them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u257	I said that, although I am absent from plenary and I do not speak for life, it is united with the 'no' that has been formulated throughout this entire period not only by my party, Acoustic Opposition, SYRIZA, but by all the forces of anti-population and much more by the great majority of the Greek people. This is a reason why nothing has to do with lies and foolishness, I dare say, which have been used in the three days that the debate in Parliament has taken place, by the government majority to justify unjustified, such as what the New Democracy MP said, is beneficial because it reduces travel time. Or to refer to Dr. Jekyll and Mister. Hyde, the Prime Minister himself who in his speech in a few minutes managed to undo himself. At the beginning of his speech he admitted that two hours' work was institutionalized, which would be paid off and before "alector" spoke in his own speech undone it, saying that overtime will not be paid off. ‘No’. Clearly 'no'. A seriously ill worker doesn't need a day's day off. He needs a social state and a multi-day license. It needs the social protection net from a state which is concerned, and it certainly does not take care of this government and this bill, despite its false and misleading title to protect labour. After all, ladies and gentlemen, it is the government's practice to do black white. This bill recalls previous government bills, such as the so-called upgrading of the school, where the government legislated to dismantle the public school or also the alleged provision of a second chance by which the government legislated the bankruptcy of natural persons and the liberalisation of first home auctions. No matter how much the government gets in return, the Mitsotakis Government is naked. The Mitsotakis Government legislates without deviating at all from its industrious ideas. He's been trying to transform society, as neoliberalism has been protecting for decades. By a difference, however, that neoliberalism itself is now in a phase of folding after the two major crises, both the financial, and, of course, the pandemic crisis, health. Nevertheless, Mr. Mitsotakis insists on appearing as the "Thetser" of Thatcher. The Mitsotakis Government is only in favour of the further accumulation of capital at the expense of employees, small and medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises. There is no legislation in the last two years that has not been cut and sewn for this client system of oligarchs, in its measures, cut and sewn to its measures. There is no government initiative by the notorious state of staff that does not take what can be done by the many, the poorest, the weakest, to give them to the few, the richest and the most powerful. Anyone who doesn't understand it belongs to the first class and should be concerned. Of course, here we also see a final innovation, which is the complete control of information, but also the attempt to erosion the institutions from the Mitsotakis system, so that this whole plan of counter-reform and social dismantling would seem to be the only logical one-way, as a very historic necessity. For anyone who is not convinced, there is also the way of repression, new morals, foreign to every sense of democracy and progress. Indeed, in these two years, the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis have been engaged in a rabies effort to abolish from the institutional and political memory which I have remembered only at its beginning and not in any progressive step, such as the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis in the same way remembers the European acquis only for communication compensation. It took the view that the elimination of violence and harassment at work, the safety and health at work, the equilibrium between working life and private life, we were told by Mr Hatzidakis in a country with so many accidents at work and a minimum level of responsibility, with women workers being impoverished, with management right and redundancies being out of control, by promoting the culture of inexorably unconditional competition and individualistic morality. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that this is how we are going to discuss today the so-called protection of labour, that is, in essence, the rubbish and the latest protections in the interests of workers' interests, domestic legislation. This is where the Mitsotakis Government finalises the introduction of the full weakening of workers to the labour market. Anyone who has an idea of workplaces - and the Minister likes me, but does not have any experience from these workplaces - understands that no day-laps, digital card, parental leave can work in favour of the worker when the collective bargaining power of the workers is weakened and at this depth. History shows us that improving working conditions and increasing incomes of workers and workers are interlinked with collective bargaining and the existence of a trade union movement. Protection of work has never come with the awards of well - meaning rulers. It came and comes through mass claim and is strengthened through social dialogue. A weak worker to a strong employer is not a social dialogue. It's political cannibalism. We say 'no' and call on those who dare to say 'no'. If they do not, they will have to deal with the great "no" of society in the next election. And you can be sure that this 'no' will be very resounding. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mrs Auger, and the consistency in time. We are completing this full circle of two hundred ten colleagues with my fellow SYRIZA MEP - the Progressive Alliance, Mr Spyros Lappa. You have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u259	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, everything has now been solved at both political and ideological level. I am making a general remark. I think the government vehicle in a series of bills, its chasm has only reversed. It has no other speed, neither first nor second and much more fifth and sixth, which has high forward speeds. It's probably just her back. With this chasm that only puts back down rights and tears down conquests of centuries, not decades. As a legal minister, labour law for four decades in the audience. Mr President, this is a very important point. Interactive differences, i.e. differences between employees and employers, and differences between spouses are the most serious legal conflicts in the audiences. It is nothing loveable, nor is it 'all together' and 'to find them' at a level of culture, etc. We're talking about a conflict of interest. It's for granted, and the law says it. Proved by legal and judicial practice. Secondly, I hear from New Democracy's parliamentary and ministerial lips something that surprises me as legal in particular. They say that the necessity of this legislative initiative is to do with the fact that the status quo is old and outdated and obviously referred to in point 1264/82. But Mr. 1264/82 was nothing in vain and white. It was essentially the implementation of constitutional requirements, Articles 18(1) on the right of association, Article 22 and 23 of the Constitution providing for the protection of work and trade union freedom and collective bargaining. That's what Mr. 1264/82 says. That was his philosophy, that was his core. I listened to Mr Kumucako before saying: 'Do you not understand that the Treaties have changed since '82'? If the conditions have changed, gentlemen of the New Democracy, MPs and ministers, try to change the status of the Constitution that is 75. It is neither 2001 nor 2019 nor, in fact, 75 after the destruction of the dictatorship. In addition to the 1975 Constitution, which is of historical interest, the Constitution of 1952, which was the first post-election constitution in the country, after the crackdown, after the slaughter of the second world war and the civil spasm, did not contain any provision at all to protect labour, while there was an arrangement in the 1827 Constitution, Mr. President, the first revolutionary Constitution of Troizina, if I remember well, where exactly the same provision in 1975 was said in comparison and expressly stated: "The work, intellectual and physical, retains under the protection of the state, by making sure..." the state, that is, "systemically...", is, "in favour of the moral and material elevation of the workers' classes, urban and rural". So, you see that the revolutionary constitution of '27 and the progressive '75s, after the collapse of the dictatorship, is the state actually reflecting a provision for protecting work and guaranteeing protection. In 1952, it was an option for the winner of a civil strife and the winners in general at that time. Now you want to restore the spirit of the 1952 constitution. That's what you're doing, I understand what Mr. Kumoutsakos says, that he's old and antiquated, Law 1264. To make him modern and to lay down new provisions that society needs. But also the constitutional provisions, the right of association, must be demolished? It's one of the most basic individual rights. The right of 22, that the state will guarantee work? Pan-European and international personal rights. Or should we differentiate Article 23 to change it, limit it, enclose it, as some people have said, to make it modern for the needs of modern society? The constitutions do not take place for ten or fifteen years. The constitution of the United States has three and a half centuries of life, as well as French from the French revolution. Alas, if they are heard by ministerial lips that the laws applying constitutional provisions have been aged, and even of modern times, since 1975, that historical time if one wants to value him is yesterday. And he's not old and ancient. I am saying that, above all, for those who understand a few things. For bills which include arrangements which in any case result in inequality, a new inequality, I will say and remind the Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, who is intelligent enough what Russo said in 1785, in the 18th century, about the end. He said inequality was a very old and terrible story. If it was an old and terrible story, what is it today after three and a half centuries? I would recommend to him to understand this terrible inequality - which was then old and terrible - is, of course, older but twice terrible - a very modern book by Eric Viyar, 'The war of the poor', in order to understand that inequality is the ones that destroy social and national cohesion and everything that serves it is an anti-national and anti-social measure. That's what this bill does in several parts. And because he mentioned constitutional provisions before, Mr President, I will recall, because I invoked Eric Viyar and the War of the poor, what he says in his book at some point: "When we talk about constitutional provisions, I have to tell you this...", he said to society, "... constitutional law and mathematics, one thing you can't do. You can't steal." That must also be made clear. Because it is unclear to us the lawyers we are serving in the bourgeois code is supposed to change provisions today and this bill, which is the culmination of our legal and administrative culture, in a country where, in any case, the concept of democracy was discovered and manifested, in a mastery way. I only choose two provisions from the bill, Mr President. Listen to what a terrible and terrible thing the bill says, which I think no one mentioned today, except Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulos. This is an excitement: at the time when workers' negotiations with the employer begin on the demands, a strike is banned, the right to strike is suspended, while it is known by a series of decisions in the Ice Bay that, at the stage of negotiation, the strike is the only personal right and the collective right of workers to exert pressure so that the negotiations end in the interests of the workers. And you come and suspend that right. And how will the worker now negotiate individually after you are also personalizing the contract of employment? With what gun? With the gun that Aristotle used to say when he had his student Alexander the Great. He said, "Stap a branch of the willow" and smashed it very easily and he was very happy. And when he gave him fifty branches and said "spasta", he put his head down shy for the wisdom of his teacher. That's what you don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u260	Finish, Mr. Lappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u261	Workers understand it and know that many branches do not break easily. A law eventually proves successful when it satisfys the social majority, social justice and social equality. He doesn't do any of that. So one crime is that. And a second, especially for the lawyers, with whom I shall close, Mr President. Is it permissible for a rule of law and a favoured state to attempt to intervene in the autonomy of the trade unions? And if so, to what extent? Because the urban code here - Articles 81, 83, 84, 85 - says the unions how they operate, how they are founded, how they acquire personality. Can the State intervene to the limits, to some extent, to lift this autonomy? Because when you tell him from the club "so you will make your elections, so you will form your union, so you will make your assemblies, so your vote" is Mr. President, improper and unconstitutional interference of state power in the collective autonomy of trade unions. Here is the big, huge problem, which justice will see in the future and the European and international institutions. I'm also telling you something else. The key to the whole bill is the personalization of the employment relationship.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr. Lappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u263	I'm closed, Mr. President. Just a phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr. Lappa. You've been in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u265	All right, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u266	A long list of two hundred and ten colleagues, three days' meetings and a total of forty-four hours has been completed, with long seats of all the Heads of Parliament's parliamentary parties. A lot of time has been given to everyone. There was information detail. The leaders spoke very well, representing all of us, each in the Group's parliamentary group without restrictions. That is why we are going in the four minutes to take the denunciation for the special speakers and the rapporteurs. And now we're going to the seconds of the special buyers and the rapporteurs. We start as we always start at the end of the day. The reason is Mera25's special buyer, Maria Abatzidis, for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u267	Mr President, today we have seen another performance between the Prime Minister and the Chief of Police Vice-President. What's the point of this show? But what else? To distinguish one oligarch of oligarchy from the other, that they are supposed to be sworn opponents and represent different classes and interests, promoting the bipartite account that so much suits their commanders, such as Mr Latsis, for example. So at the time when the work is fully liquidated in the doctrine of competitiveness, which they have served up to antenna, both sides, while the Chief of Officer Response withdraws his party and officially from the class classes of Left, stating that the class struggle begins and ends in the vote rather than in the strike and claims on the road, a seemingly insignificant amendment is coming to show beyond doubt that the two supposed gladiators are naked, are servants of the bosses. I am referring to Amendment 929 by the Ministry of National Defence. The story of this provision begins on 19 December 2016 with a similar amendment tabled by the Government of Mr Tsipras at the time. The issue that was regulated and regulated by the amendment is the possibility of granting tax and insurance information to Greek defence systems to complete the sale of land to Elefsina. The fact of the present provision, which comes back, is that the divestment should be finalised as against a lentine plate of EUR 26 million of the vast area of the four hundred seventy acres in the ELPEs of Mr Latsis. Dealing widely with Mr. Tsipras' signature. It is another of many cases where, Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Tsipras, you prove that you are the agents of the same interests. Your directed controversy is nothing but theatrical performances made simply to ensure the oligarchy that in power there will always be someone who will serve the same and never the people. (LS). We, as Mer25, of course, ask that the bill should be withdrawn and that these hundred and fifty-eight MPs should not vote on this anti-legal bill that you brought to Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, too, for the time economy. The reason is the special speaker of the Greek Solution Mrs Maria Athanasios for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr President. Before I briefly refer to the current piece of legislation, let me comment on the latest developments in the field of health and, in particular, on the crayon of vaccination with Astra Zeneca's vaccine. Aren't you interested in the health of the Greeks? How many will die of the vaccine? Countries that respect their citizens neither promote compulsory vaccination, nor blackmail, nor incitement to social division. Countries respecting their citizens banned it on women under the age of fifty five six months. But you did not, because the concern of the New Democracy Government, the one and only, was the financial revenue from tourism to cover the mess. Unfortunately, this year's tourist year is much worse than the passing with already massive cancellations of foreign arrivals. I'm returning to compulsory health vaccination. Really, where do you support him medically? Because when vaccinated people are diseased and transmitted, I honestly do not understand the medical evidence, but the violation of freedoms and rights. Do research into the Nigerian mutation of Athens and the broadcasters, if you locate them, before suggesting mandatory vaccination. With regard to the bill, the labour market has been completely deregulation within pandemic conditions. Wage cuts have been made, the world has entered into an occupational insecurity regime. But you are taking all this into account since you know that collective reactions are more difficult in such circumstances to take into account. All small and medium-sized enterprises are in front of you, not only of the workers, but also of the scientific bodies, such as the Athens Bar Association, who even invites you to withdraw it. This bill is a neoliberal globalised vehicle that aims to transform Greece into a particular economic zone, with cheap elastic work, without labour rights. You are planning and consulting yourself without any plans to create conditions for decent work and healthy entrepreneurship, without any care for young people. It is legalistic that the new bill will lead to a newly-populated society, which will lead to a new mass migration movement for young people from our country to abroad. The bill radically overthrows the concept of working hours, abolishes overtime and the employer will have a full right to regulate as he wishes working time to the detriment of workers. A characteristic example is the supermarkets whose working hours have so far been on the pretext of pandemic. The bill is clearly discriminatory in favour of employers, clearly disturbing social democracy, collective rights, rights arising from collective bargaining, which are the main mechanisms of democratisation in the country under the pretext of allegedly modernising legislation. Workers are in an even weaker position vis-à-vis poorly trusted employers. You honor families because the elasticization of the hour alone will not bring them, as it may also take Sundays and holidays and with divided hours to work within the day. You'll say you're giving them the day off. In fact, you force them to be forced into a holiday while reducing their earnings. What should workers do on the day off when you take care of reduced income? Will the abolition, on the other hand, give the workers quality time for family life? Is that your vision, Mr. Hatzidakis, for young scientists? You are not entitled to speak of a legislation that promotes a balance between professional and personal life when you have not predicted the creation of support structures in couples who are struggling alone to raise their children and to reconcile work and family to unhospitable, unsupporting and incompatible with their social and labour conditions. You are not entitled to speak of a legislation that promotes a balance between professional and personal life when you do not encourage people to return to Greece, when you do not encourage our young people and young people to bring new Greeks into the world, but you put your hopes of saving our demographics to the imported and even other religions. You think that's how you're becoming progressive and international. The Greek Solution considers this piece of legislation out of reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mrs Athanasios, and the consistency in time. Mr Christos Katsotis has the floor on behalf of the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. We want to salute the thousands of workers, young people, women, pensioners, self-employed throughout the country who have defied the threats of employers' and state terrorism, black media propaganda, whatever difficulties they have experienced, have demonstrated and continued against the bill - abortion by defending their rights, organising struggles for modern needs. The movement, gentlemen, will be reconstructed through the struggles. That's why you're taking measures in advance. You're afraid and well done. However, you will not stop this objective development. Gentlemen of the Government, gentlemen of the New Democracy, these days lies have been said that they have been embarrassed because they have not been ashamed of their mouths. The lyrics of Menela Ludemi are perfectly matched. Lies accompanied by an unprecedented hatred against those who reveal you and especially those who fight. Hate against class unions, lies and class hatred to strengthen the position of business groups by crushing the labour movement and overthrowing the greatest conquerion of the working class, the constant daily working time that is the unit measuring the value of the labour force. The "Metsotakis Mathematics", like zero plus zero, is 14%, in 1992. Now eight plus two equals eight and not ten according to Kyriakos Mitsotakis. You insult every worker, every man. All the provisions of the bill come from the distant past to be implemented as new. Breech said: "I saw the old one approaching, but it came like a new one, dragging on new no-one had ever seen, but stinking new scents of rot that no one had ever smelled before." That's what you bring, gentlemen. Working conditions of the 1900s and presenting them as new, modern, innovative. You fought against all the mechanisms of the state and well-paid lips from the media owners to make false arguments believers, achieve tolerance to crime. You present all the twists as charity, make the black white, the truth present it backwards. Breech again said: “He who doesn’t know the truth is just disgusting. But the one who knows the truth and disobeys it is a bastard.” That's what Breech said. So the lie has short feet. The workers who live on the farm, the flexible forms that all of you have legislated, they know what you say, they know why they are angry. They are angry at you being mocked in their faces, telling them that all the things that the employer applies and angers him, angers him, make him difficult in his life is for his own good and you legalize them. For example, the maid in the provincial hotel, which can work ten and more hours a day and so far was paid for as overtime. Now you tell her she'll be paid off the day off. He'll lose 318 euros this month with the settlement of the time you're doing. It is the seasonal worker who will not be re-entered and has had to pay him, in addition to compensation, and overtime wages for the season. You are now abolishing the obligation to re-entry, which is the main stimulus and, of course, disappears with the regulation you enter. You must apologise to all seasonal hotel staff from the edge of the country. You say that the tenth hour, and by individual contract, is in favour of the worker. You say that the increase in overtime and the reduction in pay are in favour of the worker. You say that the work, part-time in the morning or evening that can be extended as time and morning and evening if necessary is in favour of the worker, in favour of the student's mother. You say that if there is no job, one or for the suspension of the contract of employment without remuneration and without insurance. You're talking about unpaid leave for seasonal workers if it's unpaid. That's what you tell them. You say that all Sunday work is in favor of the worker. You tell him he'll be free on Friday, and you deprive him of Sunday! You say that the reduction in the compensation that comes when the worker is warned he will be made redundant is in favour of the worker. And what else you don't say!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u272	Please, Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u273	But what are you still saying in particular in collective law? You're saying the creation of the mock-up mechanism will ensure transparency, clear the unions, hit the labor-patterism. Mr. Hatzidakis, we understand your hatred. You have personal experience of the attitude of the workers toward you. Only you can't find the power to say that you're with them in the same party. Together you plan to strengthen the employer, to hit the games, to smash the class movement. They were photographed by pretentious executives of your prolongation to GSEE, especially those who spill bile, poison and a lot of anti-movement against the movement. Finally, because I do have to finish, Mr Hatzidakis, you are the seller of business groups, cold and a mere executioner of labour rights and freedoms. Of course, it's not just your crime, it's your lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u274	Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u275	The crimes of capital parties against the labour family are timeless. Where the previous ones stop, the next ones continue. This barbaric, rotten and inhumane system you are serving and managing. But this system, the working class, will overturn it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u276	Thank you. We continue with the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. George Mulkiotis. Here, Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living at the beginning of a new era. We are living at a time after the pandemic or continuing pandemic, which, as it seems, will give globally another diversity, a revolution which calls for a fairer distribution of wealth, increased and combat poverty, alleviating inequalities, strengthening the social state as a key factor of economic development and social cohesion. The Hatzidakis-Mitsotakis bill is unfortunately aimed in the opposite direction. It confirms - and if you wish - that the government does not want to distribute additional productive wealth as social capital, nor to reduce working time without a reduction in wages, nor to strengthen the social state. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Labour, in whatever way they try to baptize the meat and any reform cloak, and if they wear with the individual arrangement of working time without collective agreements and no unions, with the working week tire, with the flexible teleworking of full, partial or rotating work, with a daily "latitude" also, with the combination of teleworking and work at the premises of the employer, with the abolition in practice of the institution of teleworking, by limiting the collective autonomy of supposedly trade unions and the right of trade union unions as well as the conversion of the EIC into an independent authority and the break-up of all the control mechanisms, will not hide their deep counter-reform intentions. This piece of legislation is crucially affected: first of all, the right to work and employment. Secondly, the right to collective claim and representation of workers when they are removed from the possibility of collective bargaining. And thirdly, the right to personal management of leisure time. That's the hard reality. That is why the draft law is also being passed, it forms an institutional, social, productive, political and ideological basis against major counter-reformation. A counter-reform which, as a genuinely progressive force, we denounce. No, because we can't adapt to the so-called changes that are coming. No, not because, as the government allegedly says, we do not conquest Chicago workers or conquests of the Greek working class of 1980. But we denounce it, ladies and gentlemen, because we are resisting the neoliberal policies of the New Democracy. Because we believe that the productive model needs to be changed and rebuilt in a different direction from that pursued by this bill and, more generally, by the government. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2021 the genuine progressive forces do not accept a model of work and development such as that which will be voted on in the House shortly. But that brings the liker to call himself a Central Right but actually right of the '60s. It is not a model of work for the impoverished worker. It's not a model of growth the accumulation of wealth in a few and adorable. It is not a viable model of growth to exploit the worker and increase social inequalities. We, the Change Movement, the PASOK, loyal to our traditions and our offer at the place, with responsibility we open a new, difficult and fair alternative and autonomous path, the path of new change. We are in constant breaks with populism on the one hand, but also with the logic of 'taucheism' on the other. We call on the Greek Parliament to vote against the bill. But we are also proposing that the New Democracy Members vote consciously. Because we are sure that their conscience, their conscience in no way, can accept such versions of the bill being passed. We are ending the Greek society, but also the social partners in a social contract, a new social agreement on human-centre progress through sustainable development and social justice and progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u278	We also thank Mr Mulkiotis and the consistency of time. The SYRIZA rapporteur - Progressive Alliance Mrs Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulos has the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after three days of intense debate in this House, it is clear that the full political isolation of the government has been revealed. It has been revealed by isolation within the House, as all opposition parties are opposite, by all the institutions other than BSE condemning this bill and above all total isolation in society, condemnation and disapproval by the working people, by the workers who are well aware of the economic and social costs that this anti-Government counter-reformation of the Mitsotakis Government will bring to their lives and work. The Minister - and we have heard the Prime Minister today - has tried to balance in some way - this anti-democratic, anti-democratic and authoritarian bill with a bill in the House which brings two international conventions to the full extent necessary and obligations of the country for health, safety and abuse and sexual harassment as well as the Parent Licensing Directive. In any case, however, this cannot fool the workers. You cannot, Minister, deceive and say: 'Mom, why are you shouting because half of the bill is a bill that you can accept'. We here are clear. Another thing is the country's international obligations and another core, this unscrupulous bill, which we denounce and vote against. And I want us to be clear about this. From that point on, you have told us all this time - and we are constantly hearing it through the propaganda and the misinformation that, unfortunately, Members of the House repeat - that a bill is coming that gives the worker power. Obviously it is possible for you to dismantle the hours, dismantle the eighth hour and impose ten hours' work with two hours unpaid and pay off, release the redundancies completely, double the cheap overtime, come and exclude the unemployed from forty thousand jobs, which could also be created with this bill being prevented - and in the future it will be even worse with regard to unemployment - and, above all, through the total destruction of trade union freedoms, the manipulation of unions and, of course, making the strike empty. We have even heard Mr Mitsotakis combine the right to strike with illegality. Of course we have heard Mr Chacloglu, who is not here right now. It has fully illustrated the perception of neoliberalism that holds the Mitsotakis government, who said that productivity will increase and wages will increase accordingly. But this is the greatest lie of neoliberalism and now there is a 30-year experience that says productivity can increase, but wages are being set down, rights are being dismantled, the social state is weakened. Why do you tell us what you've been saying all these years? First we'll raise the pie and then we'll split it after the rights. But that is never possible and inequality is simply widening. And this bill, at a time of crisis with the pandemic, which is needed for recovery and a different policy, which supports demand and wages, you bring in a bill condemning the very recovery of the economy. It condemns the reduction of workers' incomes and, of course, the widening of inequalities. That's the reality of this bill. And this is the clear voice of the workers, of the workers who have been kidnapped and of the workers who are outside the House and even those who have not been able to strike in order not to lose the cut because they are afraid of anything. They know very well the consequences of this bill. This bill is not just for us to vote against. The majority of the Greek people and the workers themselves have already voted against it. It is a bill without any political and social legitimacy. It is a bill that will in practice be cancelled by the labour movement itself and the struggle of the workers. It is a bill that, with the mandate of the Greek people, we will abolish once again when there is a progressive government in the country, which will open up a new progressive and socially just perspective.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u280	Thank you to Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou and to the consistency in time. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Constantine Maravegias, has the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u281	Dear Mr Skourletis, you previously asked the Minister with questions why no first-class ministers came to support the bill. I'm reversing it for you. I think you should think about it, because your arguments were an unscathed eagle, and we won you in a tactical way. And I say it because I listened carefully... [[Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] Yeah, you said that. I accept your logic. We beat you with a tactical. I listened carefully to the position of all colleagues, I think, this three-day, and in particular, the representatives of the opposition parties, and looked into any objections they need to answer. Unfortunately, I didn't find anything at all. On the contrary, with few exceptions of parliamentary self-sufficiency, there was incontinence of words and insulting characterisations. It was like we were not in a parliamentary debate, but in the upper and lower square, like when phenomena like Golden Dawn were born. You tried it with a wave of political vulnerability and within the House, because the truth is that you were unable to do it outside the House, and I really tell you not to come out of this door. You'll be upset about the sight you'll see. [[Noise - Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for all of us to state the reasons for this, for the government which is called upon to implement in practice the new job with all the positive measures and for you to be asked to explain to your society and the members of your parties how it is possible to go so wrong. Because what's happened over the last three days is really unprecedented. We heard from the Opposition only two kinds of comment on the bill. It was a unique opportunity for the New Democracy to show in society the way, but also the quality of the opposition being exercised and your way was based on cries, vulgarities and insults. As far as the quality of your arguments is concerned, she simply did not exist. Only inaccurate, incoherent, graphics were your raw material. A common denominator of these poor quality arguments is the complete ignorance of the fact that a businessman invests his money on and on human resources. In 98% of Greek enterprises the employer and the employer are both employees and are well acquainted. This human potential until it reaches a level of good performance requires education. You have therefore taken the Step of the House, one after the other, characterizing the workers as consumable. I, if I were on my house couch, I'd think you're the consumables. Likewise, you thought of all other measures and positive provisions. So we turned the four-day working week with full pay, brought by the bill, into a 12-hour daily. The possibility of increasing the wages of workers, with the annual overtime being at 50 hours, has become an alleged reduction in wages. The increased protection of workers from redundancies, with the addition of six new cases of automatic invalidity, was presented as a release of redundancies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The closest control of employers, introduced by the digital digital card and the upgrading of the SEA to an independent authority, appeared as a abolition, not only of controls, but also of the Labour Inspectorate. Even the protection of the community as a whole, with the introduction of the minimum guaranteed service staff, in order to operate the means of transport and cleanliness during strikes, is, in your view, an anti-constitutional provision. That is why you also objected, although you knew that the Scientific Service of the Parliament considered that Article 95 was compatible with the Constitution, but it did not matter to you. Also, it doesn't matter to the Left...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u282	Finish, Mr Maraveya, with your last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u283	I shall conclude, Mr President. ...if during a strike public health is threatened by tons of garbage in the streets or if the elderly cannot go to the doctor. In addition to the above, however, we have also heard the extreme remarks and your well-known words 'cocks'. Anyway, at some point we've learned that some articles will finally be voted on because they're fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u284	Close, Mr. Maraveya.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u285	The other day, of course, you called for the withdrawal of the bill from the House, and even ten days ago you threatened the Minister not even dared to testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u286	You're done, Mr. Maraveya.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u287	I shall conclude, Mr President. You rejected the bill as a whole and described it as a "principal"...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr. Maraveya.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u289	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u290	No minute, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u291	Bipolar behavior is called by psychologists. You are trying at the last minute to turn, seeing how you have been exposed to society. The New Democracy, unlike the workers' parties, supports the truth and legislates with responsibility. We're leaving the lies in the Opposition. We are voting for a reform in favour of the progress of our society and of the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u292	And we thank Mr. Maraveya. The Minister now has the floor to close the sitting that lasted forty-four hours and three days. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u293	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are all tired. So I will not trouble you very much, as everything has been said and indeed by everyone. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Let the pages in. 458a - 458b]] Protests are closed. I must admit that I have seen more massive all over the past few years and have seen greater participation in strikes than 2%, 4%, and 15%, which was the highest percentage of participation in the strikes that took place. Of course I have heard my comments, not only in the last three days, but for two and a half months. It's not the first time I've heard of it. I have heard my comments before and when, with Prime Minister Kostas Karamanlis, we proceeded with the privatization of "OLYMPIAKIS" and the resolution of the OSE and when, with Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, we proceeded with the concession agreement of the regional airports and when, now, with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, we proceeded with PPC's rescue effort from bankruptcy. The follow-up came to disprove our critics. From "OLYMPIAKI" we have saved 1 million euros a day, from OSE 2 million euros a day, regional airports have changed their faces and PPC has changed where its share was 1.2 euros, today, a year and a half later, is 9 euros. I do not know what our critics are thinking about all these specific issues. It is the same people who have criticised us for this, but it is also the same ones who criticise us for this bill. In any case, you and we will be judged in practice. Because this bill will not be implemented in five minutes. A lot of provisions will start to apply from the day of the publication in the Government's Journal and a few other months later, so Sunday short celebration. Looks like who was telling the truth and who was lying. I don't want to say who's divorced with the truth, the Greek people know that. But I would like to say that either immediately after the publication in the FEK or after a month or two, the fathers whose wife has a child will immediately get paid 14 days. I mean, both parents from here and now will get a license paid for two months of parental leave from the OAED. I would like to say that workers will be able to agree on a personal basis to reconcile their personal lives with their working lives, all of which you are appalling and for which Mrs Ahtsoglou and Syriza have opened the way with the regulation that we are now bringing and incorporating, Directive 1158 on the reconciliation of private life and working life. Of course, in SYRIZA, we have set up the directive, they do not know it. Also, the workers will begin to receive the same allowance that employees get and are six hundred thousand people. The teleworkers will have the right to disconnect, i.e. they will not be bothered by their employer at the end of their working hours. All workers and all workers will have a protective framework for violence and sexual harassment at work. All workers thanks to the contract that we incorporate the International Labour Office will have better standards, better standards for health and safety at work. Those who want more overtime will be able to do it, because we are increasing the number of overtime and so people will put more money in their pocket. Self-employed delinquents will have the right to trade, but most importantly they will have protection for their health and safety thanks to this 'principle' here in other legislation. And of course, the preparation will immediately begin to come out of the President-in-Office's decree which will lay the foundations for the progress of the new independent authority that is far from the interventions of any minister and any government that makes objective checks on the labour market. However, the main part of this bill, which is the digital labour card, which is the guarantee for workers' rights, an eight-hour guarantee, an overtime guarantee, a guarantee for the settlement, will proceed. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you couldn't question that. You have not had any arguments even within the framework of the audacity in which your positions were initiated. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the Labour Protection Bill is a great step forward, it is a bill which considerably modernises the labour law of the country and is an intervention that follows what is happening in the advanced European countries. We are the party of Europe and we prove it once again. We are bringing regulations that apply to all other European states, and I do not know where you are from, but you are not inspired by European countries. I would therefore like, having said all of this, to thank, now that we are closing this three-day debate and this two-and-a-half-month public debate, first of all, those who criticised me, even those who severely criticised me, while respecting the rules of political and human culture. It wasn't the rule in the opposition. But I really feel from my heart the need to thank people fellow Members here in the House who have criticised me and in the bill without resorting to infrastructurals and to this well-known toxic approach that lowers the level of politics and unfairs Greece. I would like to thank the New Democracy colleagues very much, the strong New Democracy Parliamentary Group, for its support for me and the bill. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I want to thank my colleagues at the Ministry, the Undersecretaries, the Secretary-General, the legal advisers, all the other advisers for the very difficult and quality work we have done. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And, of course, I should like to thank the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, for his confidence, for the ideas he gave us in the preparation of this bill, for the cooperation and above all for his support from the beginning, for the end. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] For me, as you can see, this is a very important step in the draft law on the protection of work on my political path. But it is even more this bill for all of us, a reform which gives more power to the worker and more power to the economy. It gives Greece power to enter the core of advanced European countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u294	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "For the Protection of Labour - Establishment of an Independent Labour Inspectorate - Validation of the Convention 190 of the International Labour Organisation to eliminate violence and harassment in the world of work - Validation of Convention 187 of the International Labour Organisation on the Framework for the Promotion of Safety and Health at Work - Incorporation of Directive (EU) 2019/1158 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on the balance between professional and private life". We are entering the vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law, and they will be voted on separately. Ladies and gentlemen, a request has been made for a roll-call vote in principle, on the articles and on the whole draft law by Members of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u295	An application for a roll-call vote has also been submitted in principle on Articles 55, 57, 58, 59, 61, 62, 63, 65, 66, 69, 75, 78, 82, 83, 84, 86-125 and on the whole draft law by Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, of which the text is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u296	An application has been made for a roll-call vote on the principle and on Articles 57, 58, 59, 63, 65, 66, 69, 82-125 of the draft law by the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement and its Members, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u297	........................................ Finally, a request has been made for a roll-call vote on the principle and on Articles 55-125 of the draft law by the President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece and the Members of his party, the text of which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u298	........................................ I will not read out the list of signatories because due to the special circumstances, we believe there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for their submission and there is indeed one. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u299	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Do you accept the four votes in one?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u300	The House agreed. So there will be one vote. We are therefore adjourning the sitting for ten minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u301	Repeated adjournment. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a roll-call vote in principle, on the articles and on the whole draft law. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u302	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters and faxes (fax) Members have been sent to the Bureau, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, to which they give their vote. These votes will be tabled for the Minutes and will be taken into account in the count, which will be followed and recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u303	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u304	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. The bill was accepted by a majority in principle, Articles and all. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows: At this point, MP Mr. George Papandreou presents a explanation of vote in accordance with Rule 72A of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament on Article 59 of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. [[To enter page 1348a]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] At this point the MP of the Heraklion Law of the Change Movement Mr.Kingarou Vassiliou Kegeroglou tables for the Minutes explanations of vote in accordance with Rule 72A of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, concerning Article 109 of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. [[To enter page 1348b]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] At this point the MP of the Arcadia Movement of Change Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos presents an explanation of vote in accordance with Rule 72A of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament on Article 55 of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u305	At the end of the roll-call vote on the articles and the whole, we are voting on the amendments to the draft law. The rapporteurs and the special speakers are requested to submit to the Bureau documents with their votes in order to be included in the official minutes of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u306	Consequently, following the conclusion of the vote, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: ‘For the Protection of Labour - Recommendation of the Independent Labour Inspection Authority’ - Validation of the Convention 190 of the International Labour Organisation for the Elimination of Violence and Harassment in the World of Labour - Validation of the Convention 187 of the International Labour Organisation on the Framework for the Promotion of Safety and Health at Work - Incorporation of Directive (EU) 2019/1158 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on the balance between working and private life’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of articles and the whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u307	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u308	The House has given the mandate requested. The minutes of the sittings have also been distributed: PH's on Thursday, February 25, 2021, PTH on Friday, February 26, 2021,'on Monday, March 1st, 2021, Α' on Wednesday, March 3rd, 2021, Β' on Thursday, March 4th, 2021, C' on Friday, March 8th, 2021, E's on Wednesday, March 10th, 2021, F's on Thursday, March 11th, 2021, Z' on Friday, March 12, 2021, H's on Wednesday, March 17th, 2021, TH on Thursday, March 18th, 2021, PB's on Monday, March 22nd, 2021, PB's on Tuesday, March 23rd, 2021, PC on Wednesday 24th, 2021 and PD's 29th March 2021, and the House is asking whether it is validated.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u309	Therefore the minutes of the sittings: PH' on Thursday, February 25, 2021, PH's on Friday, February 26th, 2021,'on Monday, March 1st, 2021, Α' on Wednesday, March 3rd, 2021, B' on Thursday, March 4th, 2021, C' on Friday, March 5th, 2021, D' on Monday, March 8th, 2021, E's on Wednesday, March 10th, 2021, PB's on Thursday, March 11th, 2021, PM's on Wednesday, March 12th, 2021, and PM on Monday 17th March 2021 were ratified. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-16-S1-commons.u310	With the consent of the House at 22.09 the meeting for tomorrow, Thursday 17 June 2021 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work: only discussion and vote at first, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sports: "Reforming the institutional framework of the Committee on Professional Sports, provisions for harmonisation with a holistic FIFA-UEFA study on football and the Greek Football Federation, restructuring of professional classes of football, operating support of the National Anti-Doping Agency, reforming the institutional framework of coaches and other amendments to sport legislation".
