ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 30-9-2021, the minutes of its sitting of Thursday, 30 September 2021, with regard to the vote on all draft laws were confirmed by the Bureau:]] 1. "Following the agreement to amend it from 24.6.2016 the Concession Convention entitled "Concess of Concession on the use and exploitation of certain sites and assets in the port of Piraeus" between the Greek State and the "ORGANISM LIMITS S.A."'" 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Prevention and treatment of incidents of child abuse and neglect, ‘Cypli’ programme to upgrade the quality of services provided to infants, infants and infants, provisions to promote assumption and adoption, ‘Personal Assistance for Disabled Persons’ and other provisions’ I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs us that the topical questions which will be discussed are as follows: The number 1080/20-9-2021, 1084/23-9-2021, 1087/24-9-2021, 1097/27-9-2021 and 1098/27-9-2021 topical questions and the question under Rule 130(2). Parliament's Rules of Procedure will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Constantine Karamanlis. Questions Nos 1082/22-9-2021, 1086/24-9-2021 and 1100/27-9-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, George Karagiannis. The Question No 1090/26-9-2021 addressed to the Minister for Development and Investment Mr Spyridonas Adonni Georgiadis will not be answered because of lack of competence. Also, the question by No 1084/23-9-2021 of the New Democracy MP, Andreas Nikolakopoulou, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, and the question by number 1080/20-9-2021 of the Member of the Ilias Movement of Change, Mr Michael Katrin, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, which refer to the same subject, will be discussed at the same time without affecting the rights of speakers in their speaking time in application of the provision in paragraph 4 of Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. We begin with the first under number 1084/23-9-2021 in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Andreas Nikolakopoulou, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Application by the Directorate-General for Competition of the EU. on the Patras-Pyrgos motorway and the timetable for the construction of the project and the third under number 1080/20-9-2021 topical question of the first cycle of the MEP of the Ilias of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Who is the exact timetable for the work of Patras - Tower?" Mr. Nicolakopoulou, you have the floor for two minutes as the first question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the construction of a modern highway from Patras to the Tower is an important project for Elias, a work of breath, a project that will provide special development in this area, which so far does not have the development it deserves. It's probably one of the few areas in the country that doesn't have a modern highway. It is an area that has suffered natural disasters in the past. For the second time it was hit by fires after fourteen years and earthquakes and has not yet received compensation in the past. So it must be understood that it is a work of breath, very important to Elijah. Mr Minister, to date we have discussed this issue several times, meetings have taken place, discussions have taken place, several communications. You have always accepted us when we asked, you have informed us, debates on the relevant committee here. So we've exhausted enough. We know very well what the previous government has done, we've done it. Many of these were revealed in the pre-review committee, breaking the contractors into eight, so it was certain that the project would not be completed. But, Minister, this is why our government is committed to this task and our government is implementing what it promises. There is a commitment from the Prime Minister to the citizens of Elias, and I think it is time for us to do this. I shall therefore pass on to you both the anguish and concern of the people of Elijah, and I ask you, in particular, and in a clear way, whether there is approval by the relevant Competition Committee, which remains of the European Union, for the work. If there is no, what time do you specify there will be? What's this timeline? When do you predict that the contract will be signed, will it come to the House for ratification and will we start work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u4	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Katrins from the Change Movement now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President, and good month. Minister, first of all, I consider it very important that, by asking a question on 20 September, I saw a move to parliamentary level by all the colleagues in the Ilias Prefecture, who I was pleased to see that they have announced and welcomed news, which I hope you will confirm today with your reply. I will not repeat the cross-party responsibilities since 2007 of all governments for the fact that Elias currently does not have a modern motorway. We have done so many times in this Chamber. We had also held a special meeting of the Committee on Production and Trade. But more than two years have passed since New Democracy took over governance and almost a year and a half since the Ministry submitted its request for the change of model and approval by the European Commission. We have discussed this too many times in Parliament and in time questions in committee too. To date, however, we have not been given the approval of the Competition Committee, which has been expected for months. I say this because in May, as you mentioned the previous time, Commissioner Vestagher had come and the issue had been raised, if I am not mistaken, in a private debate with the Prime Minister and with you, and it was the impression that this matter will be resolved immediately. So all this uncertainty can tell us that it causes insecurity and anxiety to the people of Elijah, since no one, today, unless you disprove us, who wish it wholeheartedly, cannot say exactly when the work will begin and when it will be completed, as it will be adopted. I say this, Minister, because you remember that in the previous question we had made together, you were kind enough to give me the dates of completion of the project, which was in March 2024 and October 2024. Finally, I want to say that I was amazed to hear and read the speech of the Prime Minister at the ITH, who referred to the major projects that have begun or will begin, such as the BOAK, the metro of Thessaloniki, the airport of Kastellio, the 4 metro line, without mentioning Patras - Pyrgos. And I say it because you always refer to Patras - Tower when you talk about big works. This creates further insecurity. Two questions, then: First, if we have an answer to give the people of Elijah and Achaea what will be approved by the European Commission and what is the timetable for the implementation of the project, taking into account, firstly, the new public procurement law, which in theory causes shortening and possible delays in the process of the Court of Auditors and ratification in Parliament, which is the least. The second - also important - that we have discussed this: When will work on improving the existing road network, which had been announced in May 2020, but which we are talking about today, have not yet started. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Katrinis and Mr Nikolakopoulou, I would like to thank you for your question. Otherwise, I think we have done several times, as Mr Katrinis said, a very interesting dialogue on this issue and I fully understand the interest you have shown in the completion of the Patras tower. Because I think it is a project that has been being discussed at least since 2007 and before, that is, it is a project that we have been discussing for more than fifteen years and that is why a great deal of work is being done. The government has made progress - we have told them many times - in a series of actions to cover errors, omissions and the tragic and lost four years of SYRIZA's governance. For we, as you rightly said, Mr Nicholaskopoulou, have chosen the path of truth. This road is not always easy, it is difficult. We avoid populism. We have explained, not when we got out of government, but since we were opposition, what exactly are we going to do and these steps were we doing. To avoid repeating things, as has been done, we should make a very brief historical regression. If the tender procedure, launched by the then government of Samara - Venizelos, in 2014, had proceeded normally, the project would be ready in 2019. Let me say it again, so we can figure out where there are responsibilities. If it hadn't been partitioned, this road would have been ready today. SYRIZA's government had another view. He canceled this contest and broke the project into eight pieces, with the known consequences. We all know in this Chamber why this has been done. Don't talk again. Result? The work was not in danger of delaying, but in fact it never happened. Why? Because the fragmentation of such small projects and the quality of the contractors we had would have become one or two pieces and the other parts would never be. And that is not what we say, the European Commission says, which, when SYRIZA decided to split up the project, said, "I am not funding you beyond 2023." In short, she opposed the partitions of the works. What did we do? First, we put an end to the partitioning dead end. Secondly, we achieve and get from the Directorate-General for Regional Development, the so-called Digit Regio, the green light so that the project can be funded after 1923. Thirdly, and most difficult of all, we did our election commitment. Why, what did we say? We said that the best solution for this part is to get back to Olympia Street, back to the concessionaire. This, in our view, was the best and fastest solution. Because, if we did not do that, we should have a public works competition, which means that we would have appeals, delays and funding that we did not know if we could achieve it. So what do we do? After a very tough negotiation, because you understand that Patras - Tower was a deferred piece, which came out and now the Hellenic Republic was coming and asked to go back into the concession. After a negotiation that took place, we received the most important of all throughout this process, the green light of the Directorate-General for the Internal Market. Fifth, and this is today if you want the most basic, is that the huge slowdown of this great and long road project is over. We have already taken the prognosis from DIGICOM, which means that we have basically taken the green light to begin the project. In fact, within the next few days, we will be taking the next stage, which is a formal process. We'll send the notification on behalf of our department, so we can get the final notification. To explain this a little better to understand - because they are technical terms - and those who cannot know all this in detail. What does it mean, my dear fellow Member, to be predicted by DIGICOM? It means and we have this in writing that, children, it's just things, you can start project procedures. So what are we going to do in the very near future? In order to save time by foreseeing, we will go to the Court of Auditors so that we can get the green light from there and bring the convention, as we owe it, to the House. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] You'll tell me now, when you get the notification, that is, the final one. As I told you, the final green light, which is the notification, is a typical process. According to what we have been told at an oral level and we have no reason to believe the European Commission, the final notification will come within the next two months. So - and I conclude with this prototype - the great adventure of the people of Elijah after 15 years has ended, despite the hard criticism we have received. We had a lot of controversy with you too, Mr Katrin, and with SYRIZA MPs even with members of the Couple who did not believe that we could, within this short period of time, do not do what we were saying in the election. So we did, and I told you that we followed the hard road, because the easy road would have been to have started by fragmentation, to have thrown ash in the eyes of the world, seeing bulldozers start, but this work would never be completed. The project therefore starts at the beginning of 2022. And because I don't have time, I'm going to answer the other questions about timetables and what about road safety projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Nicolakopoulou from New Democracy has the floor for a second time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I think we have heard a very positive development today. We have heard that we have the green light from the European Commission to move forward. And I say this because it is very important, because as you have mentioned, we are talking about a multi-faceted project. And when we talk about a lot of work, we are talking about a work that has been discussed in the House, at least since 2007, when the New Democracy Government brought to Parliament ratification of the concession contract and I am sure Elia is being discussed much earlier, because we can all understand, if you like, that others have spoken before 2007 about the implementation of such an important project. We are talking about a project that, in 2013, again in Parliament, has now evolved as a public project, a process that SYRIZA then voted and it is very important to say that. So, with all the recurring things that were happening, it was not at all certain that we would have a positive decision from the European Union on what the Greek state has done up to now, as we saw in 2015, to cancel the tender and break into eight contractors. After all this, I can say that the European Commission has given the green light. But all these revolts, Minister, have created - I think you will understand and should justify - doubts, lack of confidence, perhaps, to the citizens of Elijah who are struggling, because they have heard a lot so far, they have heard announcements of the implementation of the project and have no confidence in them. So we should be strict from now on in the timetables. I call for your own personal supervision not to be wasted any more time and no more time should be wasted for another reason, Minister. Because most traffic accidents in Greece have been caused on this road and I will mention, Minister, some statistics. I will only tell you that from 2009 to 2019 on this road we have a hundred six fatal accidents with thirty dead from what the evidence says. Also, forty - one serious accidents with seventy - five seriously injured. And I leave the accidents with less injuries. In 2020 alone we have nine fatal accidents and twelve injured, two serious and four dead. As you can see, there's no other delay. Minister, I think we have heard today that a decisive step will be taken, and all the citizens of Elijah are now waiting for the next stages, which you mentioned here, so that no more valuable time is lost, and I think the next date for this work should be for the ratification of this agreement here in this House and of course your presence in this House, in order to start work, because the New Democracy Government is implementing what has been promised. We are waiting - and I am sure it will be because it needs to be carried out as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u10	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Katrinis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, first of all, the responsibilities of the previous government for the delay of four and a half years are clear and clear. I am sure that if the speech were given to Mr Papapas who is also the relevant sector leader, even if he did not want it, he would surely admit that four and a half years were lost, without almost anything, but little. So the responsibilities are obvious. But what are we going to tell the citizens of Elijah? We're saying SYRIZA has responsibilities. I have told you from the outset that there have been cross-party and time-consuming responsibilities since 2007. This isn't the first time I've said it. You know, I've said it too many times in this Chamber. It has been twenty-seven months since the takeover of the government and you too understand that as SYRIZA has delayed two years to obtain approval for the partition and has a responsibility for this, your responsibilities are now being burdened with and your backs for any delay. I look forward to your dentistry with interest. I hope that the timetables will be clear, in particular, very briefly. So what do we tell the citizens of Elijah? That the Prime Minister is wasting a lot of political capital? And I say this because I really hear the Prime Minister in Thessaloniki not announcing it in the big projects that will take place in the next period, while - I repeat - you in every public position are referring to Patras - Tower. This has reasonably created a concern both to me and to many who saw the Prime Minister’s speech. You told us you had the prognosis and that you were waiting for the next period. So we expect to listen in particular, and I say it because you had given dates. You said this in a recent interview to the 'ANDENNA' yesterday that work began at the beginning of 2022, what you said now in Parliament. But I say this because in previous debates and answers we had given timetables. And I directly ask: will it make it possible for the project to be completed by the end of 2024? I'm not saying it. Mr Karayannis said so in his interview as the Secretary-General in July, that the construction sites will end by 2024. He was at SKAI on July 22nd. You said that yourself. So here is the question right: will the Patra to Tower be delivered in 2024? So what you say will start early in 2022 leads to the completion of the project in 2024? Second, on maintenance work. Until the great work is done, the citizens of Elijah pass through the existing road which is the country's most bloodthirsty path. We have all admitted it in this Chamber and unfortunately the road accidents are increasing and they are added after each other. In May you said that there has been a tender and a compromise on maintenance work. I read on August 10 that discounts were reclassified and you say that they will be completed by the end of 2022. I say what has been said by the Ministry's political leadership. And you know, because 2022 is probably an election year if we go to elections in 2022 and if neither the existing network has been maintained nor the new motorway has gone ahead, you understand that I do not know how the Prime Minister or any other members of the New Democracy will be able to argue for it. That is why I have specific questions and I am ending them. Firstly, can you give us an exact timetable for the implementation of the Patras - Tower project? You said it would start in early 2022 and when it would be completed. Secondly, when will the maintenance work of the existing network, which is very important for the safe passage of the people of Elijah and Achaea, be completed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u12	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u13	To repeat what I said, because I think, Mr Katrin, that you either did not understand or try not to understand it. And I say that with all sympathy. The adventure of the fifteen and seventeen years, which has begun for the people of your region, has ended and ended because there has been a coordinated effort by the Government and the Ministry of Infrastructure to convince Europeans of the obvious. It was a very difficult negotiation, and here I must thank the Commissioners responsible, the European Commission, DG GROW, DG REGIO and, of course, DG COMP. The final stage we have had, in order to understand all of us in this Chamber and to speak on specific issues, is whether since the project comes back to the concession, there were State aid issues. In fact, we will be in a position when it comes to the Parliament to become the law of the state, to prove to you that the public's financial contribution through European funds and national funds will be impressively smaller than the one they were before. That is why we have taken the green light from DG COMP because DG COMP sees whether there are any State aid issues, whether these State aid is compatible or not. So we've got the prognosis. Those who listen to us and know from European issues understand that this is the essential thing, because by foreseeing you close all the loose ends and remain the formal process of finalisation, which, as I said to you, according to what the European Commission has told us, we will receive by the end of the year, in the next two months. And in the meantime, in order to earn time, we can go to the Court of Auditors and bring it to the House to become a state law. Therefore, the great adventure that began, this project in 2007 had entered Olympia Street, 2010 to stop all major motorway projects, after this project entered as a deferred, coming out, becoming a public project, being partitioned, now returning where it should be, in Olympia Street. This means that this work will be done quickly because it is a project that is relatively technically easy because it is open and quickly done. Now let's go to the schedules. Because yes, Mr Katrin, we have no problem giving timelines and judging by them. I'll tell you about the timelines, and here we are to be judged. So you ask me when the work will end. The project will then be partially delivered not in 2024, but in 2023 as soon as we take the notification in a two-month period. Take note, if we take the final green light which - I repeat - is typical of the European Commission in the next two months, the first contractors will begin. They will enter the first construction sites in 2022 and a piece of the work will be delivered, and especially the piece Lower Achaia - Tower in the end, in the third quarter we want to hope for 2023. And the rest of the work, as you quite rightly said, will be delivered by the end of 2024. With regard to what you said, Mr Nikolakopoulou. You're absolutely right. This project is of enormous importance and not just for the development of the region. I would say to you that it is even more important for the road safety issues and the number you have mentioned is not a number, it is human lives that are lost every year. We are doing something that has never been done in Greece before. We say that at the same time we will also do road safety work, because we think that a country like Greece cannot accept twenty to thirty deadly traffic every year. I would remind you that this is a programme of interventions throughout the eighty-five kilometres and it is a budget of EUR 30 million. The decision to open the tender was signed - we are talking about road safety projects - on 28 December 2020. The Ministry's services quickly came out of the competition, which was conducted electronically on 9 February 2021. On 6 August I adopted a decision approving the outcome of the procedure for opening and evaluating tenders. A month later, on 7 September, the company ranked second, as the law gives it the right - a preliminary ruling before the GSP, whose debate had been set for 15 October 2021. Therefore, as you can see, we now have this objection, but we think we will overcome it. And I commit, because you asked me when road safety works would end, to tell you that road safety projects would end in 2022. But what I would like to point out is this: we will therefore have the main task. The main project passes on many points from the old road network, but it also has new engravings. So in 2022 we will have a safe secondary network and in 2023 part a piece of the new road will be completed and Patras - Tower will be completed in 2024. So we will have two contractors, and in the end we will have a toll road, i.e. users will pay, but we will also have the alternative in several parts to have a modern, modern and safe secondary road network, which has never been done in Greece. So the torture and all this history of the Father tower takes a stop today, and we promise that we will do everything we can to keep these timetables, because in the end we are judging. We are judged by finding solutions, which we have found, despite the ruthless criticism we have received, and finally we are judged on whether we are giving projects on time with full transparency - remember the break-up of the eight tracks and why it has been done - and with efficiency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, too, Minister. We proceed to the first with number 1087/24-9-2021, a topical question by MP B3's South Athens Sector of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Nikolaos Papapas to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The ND has frozen" the great works in Thessaloniki and today it reclaims them. Large delays and high costs for taxpayers." This question will also be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Karamanlis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u15	Allow me only one comment before going to the main theme of the question, because a lot has been heard in the Chamber in relation to the debate on the previous question. In late April 2013, Mr. Samaras, Mr. Venizelos and Mr. Tsukalis were found on one of the construction sites of Corinth-Patras. They announced with the cameras and some machines that had been transferred there that the project would be finished in 2015. The next day and the machines disappeared and the workers didn't have what to do. It continued exactly the same situation with frozen work, which was completed with our own governance. Mr Karamanlis sorry once again makes a reasonable leap, because the Patras - Tower project responded in 2013. Financing approved in 2018. There were contractors in progress. Where does it appear that the project would not be completed? He's not able to answer, but I imagine he'll be able to produce the mail. We have asked it, Minister, since May 2020 for your correspondence with the competent services of the European Union for Patras - Tower. Why don't we see them testified? I think it would be a very important step in upgrading the dialogue within the hall. I invite you to do it even now. We are a year and four months after the application for documents. Now we're going to the works of Thessaloniki. For the metro of Thessaloniki, there was once again a planned design, not on the basis of what we said, not on the basis of what the administration of "ATTITRO" was saying, which was on our own government, but on the basis of what the contractor said. So the contractor’s CEO said that the project will be completed at the end of 2020, beyond the Venizelos station. There was, then, a design that was carried out normally. You have come and changed this planning and you have gone - in my opinion and a little cunning, if I may say so - because the timetable for the implementation of the project at the end of 2023 is beyond the completion of the constitutional term. If Mr. Mitsotakis has not finished during the four-year period, we will not have to see the metro of Thessaloniki completed on the basis of your announcements. Extension of metro to the northwest. He was a broker since autumn 2019. He froze the work until March 2021, where his award was completed. Western suburban. The contract for the preparation of the necessary technical studies was tendered in November 2018. You canceled it, too, and again announced the project in February 2021. Road connection of the port with PATH and Egnatia. The port, unless it is sufficiently connected to the rail network, is also in line with the road network, is also a port which falls short of its capabilities. Isn't that right? And that is where we have corresponding delays. I'd like to make a report on the eastern regional road. You know and know that they did not see in the national strategic planning of infrastructure and transport, which we agreed on, and on its funding, for its priorities with the services of the European Union. Unfortunately you chose to go on this road, declaring over seventy acres of resurrected land. And finally, tell us a word about the Gonu camp. We had a plan, a plan that was being implemented. At some point we have heard Mr Mitsotakis say that it will be a free-trade zone, not a merchandise centre but a free-trade zone and no younger one since then.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u17	Mr Pappa, I will not continue the dialogue on the Patras to Tower. Very gladly whenever you want, you too can ask a question to see how things have been. I think it was revealing what was said in the process that you heard and heard us by those who are following us. Madam President, I do not ask questions, but rhetorically I will do so to Mr Pappas. I honestly think that SYRIZA should probably not have contact with the technical world and what is happening more generally in infrastructure projects in our country or SYRIZA knows what is going on but you say great things. You will allow me here to tell you that in the last two years, saying that the New Democracy has frozen all projects is something that we cannot prove from the real facts. I think we should put a sense in our opposition tactics and see the facts and criticise where we have to agree, and where we have to agree, because I think this sterile controversy eventually leads most of the people who listen to us closing their TVs. So let's go see what we've done so far. Firstly, we have set the largest project programme that has been done, Mr Pappa, since 2004. We unlock one by one all major flagship works and of course all the works of Thessaloniki. N65, we unblocked it. Patra - Tower, we unblocked it and it's moving on. Thessaloniki Metro, 4 Metro Line in Athens, BOAK, Kastelli, Aktio - Ambrosia. These are some of the examples of projects that are going on and blocked. We are talking, Mr Pappa, about a EUR 13 billion project, of which we have reconciled EUR 3.2 billion, when you in four years had only settled EUR 800 million. We're going to Thessaloniki to answer one by one of your questions. First of all, you're talking about the Thessaloniki subway. I think we all have our memory, Mr. Papa, the opening with the mustaches of 2018. Not only we, but all the Thessalonians have in mind a show you did while the metro was not ready to surrender, but you had no basic answer. In 2019 you argued that the metro would start its operation in 2020. So you said something that is not technically based anywhere. When the government of SYRIZA said so, dear Mr Papa, there were no stations of "Agia Sophia" and "Venizelos". There was no infrastructure, i.e. there was no tracks in most of the project. Signalling and telecommunications systems had not been installed. The tests had not started. We're talking about a driverless system that takes eighteen months of testing. So how could the 2020 project have been ready when everything I've been saying to you now had not been done? You want to tell us and convince us and insist on this to SYRIZA that the metro would start in 2020 without testing, no power stations, no trains and no rails. This is not even done in animation. In my dentistry I will answer the other questions you have raised, especially about what is going on with the Venizelos station, as well as all other projects. You mentioned - and I am closing with that, Madam President - on the flyover. But the problem here, Mr Pappas, is that the flyover was not in the national transport plan? Is that what we're dealing with? Do we not all accept that Thessaloniki has been saturated with traffic and an issue that has been under discussion for thirty years, the regional one, we need to find a solution? A philosophical work? That's why it was approved. I do not understand why we cannot agree on that, really. And I invite you to look into it again within your party, because this work is a real breath project. So this project, along with the metro to be completed in 2023, along with a modern airport that has become and with five hundred and fifty buses that will run in a month in Thessaloniki, I think they're changing the co-chair and that Thessaloniki is now a city that leaves its worst self behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u18	Me too, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u19	Madam President, Mr Karamanlis left the essence of the answers, for some parts of my question, for his second language. I would therefore like to encourage him to take advantage of it, not only in response to them, but because he has been tempted to generalise the debate and also to mention the Northern Axis of Crete, to give us a date for the second stage of the competition. Give us a date. You went with Mr. Mitsotakis to Crete, you also had an event, by electronic means, a very nice presentation to explain to them that you are coming back to our design, which you used to grind, devour, slander for two years. You said we're going back to planning the SYRIZA government. One date you did not give us for the second phase, the submission of binding tenders. At least do that now. Second, I need a word about the Gonu camp. You didn't say anything again. And thirdly, I would like to ask you not to challenge the common mind here. We received the Metro project of Thessaloniki at 30% cost. When you received, 75% of the costs had been incurred. You are telling us that we are lying about the timetable for the completion of the project at the end of 2020. Was Mr. Exarch lying, too, CO, then, "AKTORA"? Straight and clear talk. I'm listening. Was he lying? I would really like to hear that from you, and I expect it to be of great interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u21	I explained to you, Mr Pappa, why the work of the Metro of Thessaloniki was the greatest fraud on SYRIZA, because you inaugurated mustards without having taken all these steps that I told you in my prototype and for a short time I will not come back. And I will go one step further, and I will tell you that you may as a government inaugurate mustards - this is your right, and you have been judged by it in elections and in Thessaloniki and throughout Greece - but I will tell you something else, that as a opposition you are doing something that I believe - and I want to present here in the House - is even worse, you are encouraging appeals to delay the work. And when we encourage appeals to delay the project and participate in demonstrations at Venizelos station someone wins, Mr Papa, and this is not the Thessalonians. Do you know who's after the Arbitrations, the winner? The contractor, the contractor. Once, then, these things with coolness need to be seen and left political confrontation for things we should not do. Thessaloniki therefore needs a subway. He needs an ancient one. And we do what you did at the "Saint Sophia" station too. That is exactly what we are doing, but we have dug the project out and I insist on it: First of all, we have completed the two tunnels. We've completed the civil engineering projects. We fully built the double line in the section of Stripper as an Axostyreum. It is expected that the rest of the section from New Train Station to St. Fifteen of the eighteen trains have arrived in the train and their relevant tests are under way. We started, Mr Pappa, the tests with train traffic in the section 'Kerrivani' as 'Amaxstasio'. Today we are talking about testing has begun. This proves that the work is progressing. We have also given - as I said - a solution to the Venizelos station, which ended this issue in the S.H.E. I cannot understand why you are trying, not you, but part of your party, this matter again politically to raise it. And also, as I told you, we have made progress on all these issues. So, for the 6th pier road connection, I don't need to tell you anything. I shall be presenting to the Minutes, after finishing, Madam President, the history of thirty-two actions since December 1919. The third is the signing of this Convention. I do not support the fact that the previous government had done nothing but the sixth pier, which was the shame of Thessaloniki, our government found the final solution, because if we had not done all of what I am saying to you, it would still be in the air. Regarding the anti-military works in the Vegetables and Kalamaria: You have also taken one step, but a small one. Do you know what you've done, Mr. Pappa? You included it in 7a, i.e. forced expropriations through a Ministerial Council. We proceeded with expropriations and approved the studies on the stock register. And I would like to tell you that all these projects continue with an unsatisfactory effort and - as I have said in my prototype - Thessaloniki will have nothing to do with Thessaloniki on your own days, that is, museums. I'm gonna hang up with BOAK because you asked for a timeline. Mr Papapas, I have told you many times, I am at your disposal within the framework of parliamentary control, and not in this way in two seconds, to put down all the issues in Crete, with great pleasure. I challenge you and invite you to do so and to come to the Commission - if you like - production and trade, so that we have more time to discuss these with coolness. And I am sure we will disagree, but in some major projects the two major parties in this country can finally agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, too, Minister. Now we will discuss the first question with number 7382-17-2021 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Phiotis of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Sarakiotis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Determination of Phiotida through the non-implementation of a series of routes on its rail network - characteristic examples of the residual operation in Bralo, Molo, Stylis", which will also be answered by Minister Karamanlis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Madam President. In previous years and in governance, SYRIZA began, accelerated and completed major projects involving the railroad and including the Fthiotida Prefecture. I will mention the characteristic examples of the twin Kallidro tunnel, which had been an anecdotes to the European Union for many decades, but also the great bridge of Ekara. Unfortunately, in recent years, not only have we had a setback, but the final stages of projects that were ready have not even been completed. I will mention the case of the Molos railway station. In a series of parliamentary questions, you, Minister, are moving its way backwards. I will mention the answer I received on 29 April this year, when you mentioned that small-scale work is missing for their complete completion. I transfer the agony, the concern of both the local authorities and the citizens of the Kammenos Vourlos Municipality for the immediate operation of the station, and we expect an answer on when it will begin. Then I come to the second part of the question and to the routes from Stylis to Lianocladi. In previous years there were routes between 5:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m., which united eastern Fthiotida and Stylidas with Lianocladi, Lamia, but then Athens. Now they're running from 9:00 in the morning to 5:00 in the afternoon. Why have the rest of the routes stopped and when will they begin again? I'm coming to the third part on Bralus's subject. Minister, during the past sixteen years, two daily and more Sundays were carried out due to the tourist movement. Now, with celebrations, we have learned that four routes will come back to operation, which, according to residents' complaints, do not even serve the surrounding villages and the Municipality of Amphiclia. When are they going to start? Do you intend to resume the sixteen routes and when will that be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u24	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. My dear colleague, I hope that we will have time in another case to discuss the large programme of railway projects of 3.3 billion, which very quickly in the next few weeks will be announcing exactly how they will be, which will be done in the process of studying, which means that we will not have the phenomenon of projects in the past, that they will stop and resurrect, because we are actually talking about projects, as they say in the European Union 'Turn Key'. But let's go to your own issues, your region and the questions you've asked me. You referred to the Molos railway station, which our Government joined in the first supplementary Tithorea - Domokos Convention last April, a budget of twenty-four million euros. Remind you and remind everyone who listens to us when this project began to understand what delays we have in this project? It started by "ERGOSE", dear colleague, not a couple of years ago, but in 2012. Can I say it again? In 2012 with a much smaller budget and a much smaller implementation time. So when this work is completed, you will allow me to tell you that it will be due to the actions of the government. Therefore, in your question, I think it is clear that this work is finally ending and not due to the current government. The delays are not due to the actions taken by the current government, and if I wanted to raise political controversy, I would ask you what you have done for four and a half years, but I do not think that concerns anyone. In your question, you referred to holidays from the 'TRAINOSE'. You know and know and all the local residents that the main causes for these holidays were the very strong weather phenomena of both January last year and June 2021. Therefore, due to these natural disasters, several damages were caused to the railway infrastructure, which is gradually and efficiently relocating. For example, from September 3, the 1520 and 1521 trains were reopened on the route of Athens, Lianocladi, Athens, while last week the rail link between Larissa and Lianocladi was restored and therefore the substitution of part of the route of TRAINOSE was abolished. You can see, then, that we are also finding a solution here, that, gradually, any problems caused by natural disasters are trying to find an immediate solution. Both the OSE as a manager if you want the railway infrastructure and the 'ERGOSE' as responsible for the technical part of the modernisation of the rail network are making every effort to return these routes back. In my dentext I shall also mention the signing of a memorandum of cooperation with TRAINOSE, since you are right, we must strengthen the existing routes. TRAINOSE, however, is no longer a state-owned company, sold on a lenten billboard on your own days. And now we sit down and try to fix the big problems we have found, so that we have a private company, because we believe in private initiative, but when it takes some money to make the so-called 'big lines', it does. I think we'll all agree on that. Therefore, for a year and a half we have been negotiating with TRENITALIA and TRAINOSE so that the routes for which the Greek taxpayer is paid are done and controlled by it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u26	Me too, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u27	Minister, on our day from Bralo, there were sixteen trains. Your days at some point did not pass anyone, and now they are going through four. Probably with the mathematics I know sixteen is a bit bigger than four. During our days, as I said before, the Lianocladi - Stylida began at 5 o'clock in the morning and ended at 11 o'clock in the evening. As I know, I imagine there are more routes than what is going on in your day by 9 a.m. until 5 a.m., unless you have something different to tell us. What happened on our own day in Phthytida by train knows it, because they see it. They also see the twin tunnel in Kallietro and the largest hangable bridge in the Balkans, which in four years was completed in Ekara. For two years you have not been able to start a ready, complete station in Molo for two years. Letters have been sent, meetings have been held with the mayors of the region and you have done absolutely nothing. From there on I asked for specific dates. The people of the region and Bralos, from Amphiklia, from Kamena Vurla, from Stylida, when will the Molos station begin to operate? Secondly, will the Stylis - Lianocladi routes increase, yes or no, and when? Of the four that we've reached Bralo, the trains will be back in sixteen, yes or no, and when? I will also present to you yesterday an event that took place in Amphiklia entitled 'Movement against isolation!'. They mention the inhabitants, the mayor of the region was present, that these four routes you say are almost no one, and in no case are sufficient to meet the interconnection needs. I'll submit it to the Minutes. I will submit to the Minutes and the letter from the Cultural and Exorbitant Association of Republikastics, which states that "The transport blockade of the area threatens the living of the inhabitants. Crying agony, nine thousand permanent residents isolated. The whole region is threatened with rapid desolation and surely fading.’ Works of yours. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u28	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u29	In 2016, our dear fellow Member told us that there was much more to go on in his area. Of course, it was much more. You know why, dear colleague? Because in this Chamber, lies and populism must be finished once. Because then TRAINOSE was a state-owned company, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u30	'19.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u31	In 2016 you said. What '19? '19 wasn't these routes. I have not interrupted you and I have listened very carefully. So let me not lose your temper. You said what you wanted to say, now you must have the temper to hear the answer. Right? In this respect, the Commission considers that the measures in question constituted State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article You privatized her when you blamed the Samara - Venizelos government for being a crime if they privatized her for under 500 million and a billion. And do you know how privatized you have, Mr. SYRIZA's dear colleague? As far as state subsidies are concerned, six years old. Congratulations, it was the shortest joke of privatisation in the European Union. In fact, what you did was that you gave "TRAINOSE" and at the moment, not just privatized it, but you didn't have the mechanism to check whether the money that "TRAINOSE" takes each year to carry out the so-called "great lines", executes it. My predecessors signed papers that they have been executed - he says - on the routes, because 'that's how the OSCE told us', not to check that they have actually been executed. So that's what the'stick' and this crime ends, because today we have ended with 'TRENITALIA' in a very specific plan: 'Yes, gentlemen, you will take the 50 million a year for ten plus five years, but you are, firstly, obliged to carry out the routes', which, with the 'excellent' privatisation of the SYRIZA, you have not predicted and you are now coming and you are'swinging the finger' and you are tabling us in practice that the president of the exorraist club has complained. To you complain, my dear fellow Member, that the previous government and your party privatised TRAINOSE in the way they did it. The last thing I want to say is that we all know that rail projects in Greece since 1996 have had huge delays so far. The budgets went beyond all logic, the supplementary contracts succeeded at one time. What did that mean? That the budgets were being launched was being launched. In fact, for the railway station we are talking about, I told you that this project has been launched since 2012. Since 2012! And we signed the supplementary contract to finish this work. What have you been doing for four and a half years? And you come here and give us up? I think you should now understand that you cannot fly'shocked in the eyes' of your voters. And those who listen to us will have to understand who is doing a specific and methodical job to close the loose ends of the past and who simply continue to mock their voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, too, Minister. The third, with number 1098/27-9-2021, a topical question for the second cycle of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport and the third with number 1097/27-9-2021, a topical question for the President of Heraklion of the Movement of Change, Vasilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, which refer to the same subject, will be discussed at the same time, without affecting the rights of speakers in their speaking time, in application of the provision in Rule 131(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Under No 1098/27.9.2021, the current question by the MP Heraklion of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Let the Government clarify its intentions to make use of the extent of Heraklion Airport "Nikos KAZADZAKIS" and to the number 1097/27.9.2021 a timely question by MP Heraklion of the Movement of Change Mr.Kingeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Assessessment of the airport "Nikos KAZADZAKIS" will be answered for the benefit of the local society" will be answered by the Minister of Transport and Infrastructure Mr. Konstantinos Karamanlis. Mr Socrates Vardakis has the floor from SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, don't get upset. Why are you upset? If you have anything to substantiate, say it smoothly so that we can understand it. Can you convince someone that the North Road has matured, designed in two years? Did the previous government do something to implement the first section of the Hersonissos - Naples in 1922, as you told us? So the last one did something. Anyway, that's not our point. Minister, when we wrote this timely question, we certainly did not know about the great disaster that would be happening to us in Crete: a murderous earthquake with a dead man and we are, Madam President, lucky in our misfortune that the earthquake did not occur at night. The whole of Crete would be mourning today. Minister, I would like to present you - let me speak - with your attention. Show the required effort not to happen to earthquakes, Minister, with the flood victims of the Municipality of Hersonissos, who after more than a year of entrepreneurs and families affected by the floods have not even taken 1 euro. The citizens, the families of the earthquakes that have been tested and tested, need the direct and substantial intervention of the state. Since it is the responsibility of the Ministry, I am taking this opportunity, Minister, to tell you that you must immediately take an initiative and create a TAS office, namely Seismomolian Rehabilitation Sector, which you know better than I can that it can solve several problems in terms of even bureaucracy. Minister, I am conveying to you the anguish and inconvenience that has been prevailing in Crete over the last few years to make use of the area of “Nikos KAZADZAKIS”, according to reports. Of course, we have a very own view and not just. In his speech at the ICU, the advisor of HIDED Mr. Stuboulidis referred to the extent of the airport "Nikos KAZADZAKIS" in view of the forthcoming adoption of the list of the first projects to be incorporated into the Houring and Works Unit of the Fund and, of course, caused severe reactions by regional and municipal bodies. I wonder, Minister. You yourself have said that it is a complex property regime. How can such announcements be made when the property regime has not even been cleared? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, give me a minute more and reduce time from my dentistry. So that something does not appear to us, and since you are committed to seeing both the proposals of the municipality and the district, but also the institutions of Crete, after of course the storm that created all that Mr Stabulides has said, you must answer the following questions. Mr. Stubulides tried through the local radio station, "RADIO KRITI" on Mr. Argyraki's show to fold what he said. If there were misinterpretations, you'll tell us. Mr Stubulides said that there is no problem and there is no question of granting this area to TEAD for privatisation. So the questions raised, Mr Minister, are very clear: First, is it in Government's intention to transfer the extent of Heraklion's "Nikos KAZANTZAKIS" airport to TEAD, for the purpose of selling to a private person or is this area still in public and about five hundred acres in the Municipality of Heraklion? In any case, Mr Minister, you cannot intervene, even legally. Secondly, clearly you will be able to reply to us if you intend to take into account the studies that have been presented and which will be submitted and if you include in the planning and implementation of a project for the benefit of society the municipality, the region, the local bodies and the society of Heraklion. Madam President, thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I hope you keep your word for your dentistry. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Since much of the maturation to the BOAK, it has been a project that has been auctioned since 2012. So don't get caught up for the maturation, dear Mr. Vardakis. The issue of earthquakes and problems will then be discussed in a question tabled. I am therefore not talking at all about you at all, Mr Karamanlis. With regard to the development of the airport ‘Nikos KAZANTZAKIS’ for the benefit of the local society, it is true that there was a confusion with information that was locally intended to grant the airport to TIADED or the Supreme Court, somewhere there. But what we need to make clear, Mr Minister, is the essence. The ownership status is a given, it has to be done by the municipality to a significant proportion and they also have state bodies. So what needs to be agreed is: if the use of the airport area is carried out in accordance with the institutional procedures envisaged and after the ECHR has been drawn up, the changes and integration into the Greek town plan, as we have already said, will be made in the area - with the proposal of the municipality - so that, after consultation, we can have the result we want. We want, in other words - I personally - to guarantee that all the procedures are followed. Okay, the district, it's okay for the municipality to say their opinion, but I also have an extra parameter, the local community of Alikarnassos. Mr. Karamanlis, for years Alikarnassus has been incurring from the airport and continues to bear the burden. So he wants to have a word as a local community. And I say it in the general sense, not for the Municipality of Heraklion, as well. Local communities do not pay much attention to local communities, do not pay much attention to the institutions, because, as you know, they were elected by a different procedure and there is no respect. Therefore, whatever is needed to operate institutionally a consultation process, which will bring the desired result, you should guarantee it. The municipality has worked out proposals. It's not zero. He's been consulted. Integrate the local community into it and have the result we want. The ECHR is a guarantee, in the way it has been institutionalised, provided that the procedure is followed. Do not confuse themselves and not be drawn up by an office here in the centre - either the Ministry of Infrastructure, or wherever this is delegated - but it is the result of the local society's proposal to meet the needs that can be done in this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u36	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin to talk about the exploitation and exploitation of the 'Nikos KAZANTZAKIS', I would like to say that Mr Kegeroglu is absolutely right. There is a question to which the Deputy Minister, Mr Karayannis, will answer on the issues of earthquake. All I think should be heard in this Chamber is that from the very first moment they are over a hundred engineers of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Directorate-General for Natural Disasters in the region, who in all natural disasters give a very important presence. I would also like to tell you that until this morning - and I think it is important to see the speed with which we are going - there have been two thousand hundred and eighty-five self-consciousnesses. The rest will tell you, as Mr Karayannis has said, in reply to the relevant question that Mr Kegeroglu has asked. Now we're going to the issue at issue. We have talked several times in this room about the development of "Nikos KAZANTZAKIS" in a broader plan that we have set for projects that change Crete and give it great development breath. For our part, we have done what we said as opposition. We have created a roadmap and we have connected implementation with the payment of instalments from the European Investment Bank. Why did we do that? In fact, we had said so as an opposition and voted for it. To avoid the tragic mistakes made in Greek. Because I am convinced, and I want to believe that once in this place, and we politicians need to learn from our mistakes. I am pleased to tell you that the first milestone for disbursing the first instalment of the loan was fulfilled. And this has been done by the letter that I sent as Minister of Infrastructure and Transport to the EIB, which confirms that the existing NICOS KAZADZAKIS airport will not be used as a political or military airport after the start of the operation of Kastelli. As I can tell you, the extent of the existing airport will be developed - and we have told all tons - as an integral part of the city of Heraklion and the wider urban area. In fact, we expect the loan to be disbursed between the EIB and the Greek Government immediately after the completion of the so-called ‘air navigation timetable’. At the same time, with the care of the Ministry of Infrastructure, a working group, Mr Kegeroglou, was set up to do what you referred to, namely a joint working group of the Infrastructure and National Defence. Because the Ministry of National Defence, as you know better than I do, owns a very important area in the area. The task force is to resolve the very difficult property issues concerning uses of the Ministry of National Defence, NATO and the Civil Aviation Service regarding future defence parameters. The completion of this team's work is expected to take place after the aerial photography, so that we can have a full picture of what should be used by the Ministry of Defence and what is not. It is therefore clear to us that all the planned actions are being taken, which, in fact, I have informed both you and other colleagues during parliamentary scrutiny. We must now go to the subject of HICP and close it and make it clear. No SWEDEN property is transferred, no property in the SWEDEN. The Supreme Court, in fact, Mr Vardakis, is your creation, the creation of SYRIZA. We normally continue our work to make use of this area, because, as I have said, I do not think we should let it become Greek. What's the T.I.I.D. gonna do, so we can get this straight? The TIADED will help us to mature the project, because the TIADED has a very specific know-how from all the work and the exploitation of the Greek. We do not want, ladies and gentlemen, another twenty-five years and there should be a debate on how the space should be used. The second thing I shall mention is not only the group but also the Prime Minister himself and other members of the government. Mr. Kegeroglu, we are not going to ignore the views of local society. Local society - and you are right about Alikarnassos, I accept what you are saying and you are absolutely right, because before the New Democracy became a government, I had visited the region and had seen the problems it had created at the airport - the local community and all the residents concerned must have an opinion. But I have another view to impose my opinion, another to block the project, and another to do what was done, which was happening in the municipalities around the Greek, where one wanted alpha, the other beta, and in the end nothing happened. Therefore, there is nothing in the TIAD that has to do with ‘KAZADZAKIS NICKO’. It's a help mechanism for the maturation of the entire study process. We are at the disposal of all the local actors to launch a constructive dialogue on what needs to be done in the region. But property problems need to be solved so that we know who has what and, finally, what exactly it will be granted for use. These are not to be found in the use of the ‘KAZADZAKIS NICK’. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Vardakis has the floor from SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the complex property regime we already know. There you are absolutely right. Let me remind you that the previous government had already made a concession of twenty-six acres, if I'm not mistaken, by the 126 Battle Colonel, that is, from the Equatorial Equatoriale Fund to Civil Aviation. But I'm not standing on it. I'm covered by the answers you've given to a large extent. But when you say that you have created - and I know why you have said that - a joint working group and you did so correctly, I did not see that joint working group participating in the region. There are technical advisers in the district, the municipality has. It would be a good thing if someone were involved. Secondly, you said in a second year that you would give individuals the power to draw up a study. So this has caused us concern, if you want. You tell us here from the Step of the House in the most official way that the TIAD will play the role of the technical consultant. Well done, hello. You told us that you neither grant land infatuation to the GOI or the Supreme Court. Therefore, it remains in the public and five hundred acres about one third of the area in the Municipality of Heraklion. And the second one - which covers me - is what you said again in the most official way, that you will take into account after consulting the proposals not only of local society but of the Municipality of Heraklion and the Region of Crete. I would like to inform you - and we have sent you as a report - of the proposal from the Chamber of Deputies. Of course, it has moved forward from what I know about the town of Heraklion. So take these into account in the second year. You told us again that there was no direct dependence on Kastelli to the extent of Heraklion airport. Is that right? Of course we agree that Heraklion should not become a second Greek. And that's why we're gonna contribute. To conclude, Madam President, I have been covered by your answers, Mr Minister, as long as these answers have been made and, secondly, by the officials of your Ministry when they make announcements, to know what they are saying. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u40	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the TIAD was established by Law 3986/2011 and covered a large institutional gap that existed in the country. There was no body for the use of the private property of the State. The ECHR is an institutional tool and I must say that in many cases where it worked as planned for the process, we have results. We have the experience of the former US base, which only when the ECHR moved forward on the basis of L.3986 we have seen results in connection with project study and procedures. So I am not opposed to the ECHR procedure. On the other hand, I would ask that this procedure be respected in polite terms. What does that mean? In the joint property group, I would ask that the Municipality of Heraklion be enlarged and brought in. It is an issue that really needs to be cleared up in relation to ownership. I must tell you that there are judicial decisions that confer ownership on the former Municipality of Alikarnassos, by extension to the Municipality of Heraklion, of many parts used by military units or used for other uses. So the joint team should include the owner at least 32%, which is the Municipality of Heraklion. Secondly, I think that there should be a formal delegation and an official framework of agreement between the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the TIAD, the municipality and the region, and I would ask you to do so with a programme agreement or contract. If you make a programme agreement or even a contract in which the common site will be included for the procedure that we will follow in order for the municipality to make the modification of the GSP in line with the outcome we want. And, of course, in the overall planning and study, the strategy for exploiting the space that we will have concluded - and it is not there to impose the opinion of anyone individually, it will be the abstraction and the component of all opinions - that this process will operate in institutional terms. The two guarantees, therefore, which I ask, are that the Municipality of Heraklion should enter the joint group and that there should be a programme agreement and even a contract for the framework with which we will be moving the next time where it will describe what the Infrastructure is doing, what HIDE, the region, the municipality and the local community are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Madam President. I repeat why it is good to be clear, at least, from the government's point of view what we want to do about the HICP. HIADE is an organisation that can help us grow up in this work. What does that mean, practically? That TIADED, having pre-experienced experience in the Greek project, can help run some processes much faster. It's over and out. That's what HICP does. It is not a contracting authority for the GOI. He's not transferring. How could this property be transferred to TEAD when - quite rightly, Mr Kegeroglu has said - almost one/3 belongs to the Municipality of Heraklion? You're right, the property is really complicated. That is why we have done this committee. Because the most important problem we have at this stage is not the property between the municipality. It is what will finally keep the Ministry of Defence five hundred acres from this entire area for national reasons. So that is the issue, the number one issue which we have to make clear at the moment. And that's what we do. It is with great pleasure that the region, the municipality, will come and let them know. Whether they want to participate in the committee, I do not think it is necessary. But I don't want her showing up here that we're negative. I'd be happy to talk about it. You know in Greece there's a saying, which says if you don't want to give a solution, do a committee. If we start in this committee and put in a couple of fifteen people, it will be too late to dawn. This committee has an object to resolve matters with the Minister of Defence. So I would be very happy to talk about it. Secondly, we never said that we would leave out of the wider debate and the wider debate on the use of the "Nikos KAZADZAKIS" local society. It would be a crime, and I think we have learned from mistakes as a country from past mistakes in Greek. I therefore do not think that this is a field of political controversy. We should all state our views. However, a study should also be carried out. Why do you know something, Mr. Vardakis? I do not think it is in the hands of a minister, even a Prime Minister, to decide how to make use of such an area without a specific feasibility study, to tell us what can be exploited there. That is why the New Democracy, as opposition, has said that we will also consider using the procedure of the pilot proposals for this particular project. Don't be afraid and demonize the private sector. The private sector can come and make us a proposal that this area, because it is seaside, must become a hub cruise. He can tell us something else needs to be done. But usually public officials, ministers, mayors and regional managers are not close to the market and do not know what needs to be done to this extent. One area which I think we will all agree is a real 'chilet' for the wider region. So we need to listen to the actors, listen to the private sector. That is the government's view. And I think we can all sit together at a table and listen carefully to proposals. That's what we want to do. No one, however, has the right to impose his opinion. That's what's important. And I close, Madam President, by saying that I am glad that we are clear about the role of TEAD, because a lot has been heard down in the Municipality of Heraklion and in the wider region, and I want to make it clear that we are going to know how to move. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u45	For the committee, Minister, you should know that there are people who know an inch and who have captured the property regime.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u46	Mr Colleague, you will discuss them between you and later, not right now. Ladies and gentlemen, it will not be debated because of lack of responsibility, the fifth under number 1090/26-9-2021, a topical question for the first cycle of the Parliamentary 2nd Piraeus, Mr. Fotinis Bakadamas, Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "International Centre for Marine Technology and Innovation in Syros". The second question of the circle of petitions and questions by SYRIZA's MP B' Thessaloniki - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: "The problem of fire protection in the Sheikh Sou wants immediate solution and not disputes between competent and unauthorised" and the third with number 7797/651/5-2021 question and application for documents of the circle of petitions and questions by MP 2 Thessaloniki of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: "In the National Park of Schinia - Marathon there is still a crime against the environment and the protection of biodiversity". There will also not be debated, due to a blockade by MP, the fourth under number 1093/27-9-2021, a topical question for the first cycle of MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Leonidas Stoltides, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Parse in the 1st and 2nd High Schools of the Municipality of Lagada in the Thessaloniki IP". And now we go to the fifth, with number 1100/27-9-2021, a topical question for the second question by the MP of Heraklion of the Movement of Change Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Direct measures to relieve the affected people in the wider area of the Municipality of Minoa Pedadas from the 5.8 Ritchter earthquake". The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport, George Karayannis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Madam President. I have to say about the previous question - unlike Mr Vardakis - that I was not satisfied, because two institutional proposals were made and the Minister did not accept them. Institutional guarantees must exist in democracy. It is neither atypical nor atypical the procedures followed. However, I come to the big issue, which concerns the relief of the affected people in the wider area of the Municipality of Minoa Pedadas, the Municipality of Arhanas - Asterousia and many earthquakes, and the other neighbouring municipalities individually. Let me say that since 27 September we have been living in the area a nightmare and allow me and the staff because it is about my village and surrounding area. These days, in fact, the anxiety about how they will live, how they will pass in the immediate space, but also how there will be a restoration and normalization of economic and social life in the next long time. Minister, you were in Arkalochori, we participated together in the announcements and the meeting that took place. Let us say that the city and the other side have already been declared, so the first day's request does not exist because the government has moved on to it. I must tell you that there are too many issues in relation to what we have talked about. The issues of care, aid, food, living in one way or another are being advanced by the municipality. We have an issue concerning the medium-term establishment of people. The immediate one was either with the tents or anything. But, according to the government's announcements in the next few days, there must be no tents. We have several solutions launched, you have various options made, and what remains on the issue of medium-term housing - because winter is coming - is finally to see the municipality's request in relation to the housewives. Because I see a big difference in numbers, do the four hundred and twenty? And if it's captured, why on the part of the ministry's services we're talking about less numbers? Of course, the immediateness of thirty-three will have to act on it, because it will be a first relief for both Arkalochori and the small settlements around it. Let us see, then, what stage is it, if it goes on, to reopen schools. It is very difficult to implement telecommunications because there is no home for children. So the solution you suggested is correct, but when are the rooms coming? Tell us how many applications have finally been made for autopsy. If we have the total number, how many macroscopics have taken place in the first phase to date? Of course, I think that the number said by the Minister will be added today and we will have better quantitative results. Give direction when they go to a neighborhood, control it all, if possible, not interrupt to go elsewhere and turn around, because there is confusion, not because there is deceit and well-being, but there is confusion between people and their anxiety and the situation where they are found to become prone to rumors and to any non-proceedings. So let me say that I am focusing today on these two plus the big issue that has to do - and where the Ministry of Infrastructure is, of course - with the organised reconstruction of the region. The government has announced measures which we will, in fact, discuss as an amendment to the bill today, but there is a need for organised reconstruction. The settlements cannot be reconstructed and the houses can only be restored under the responsibility of the owner, because the plan is lacking, there is no possibility of them getting permission, there is a lack of opportunity for this whole process to go ahead. I would say, then, that you will tell us whether you are considering a procedure in conjunction with the preparation of a special peasant, to facilitate the background on which the new dwellings will have to take place. You should tell us whether you have examined the proposal that I made and accepted by the Prime Minister for the relocation, at least, of the village of the Rusohoria, which, for the reasons of the airport, must also be relocated and does not mean building a new settlement in this position that is thus burdensome. Let's see these issues. It is also the Ministry of the Environment, of course, too much, such as the Arkalochori town plan, which is in the final phase and has not been made public, the cost of issuing a licence, is too much. However, because the solution to the building and building compensation is being promoted by the method of advance payment and then all, as in the fire-fighting areas, I would like to say to you that the government has misled the immediate help of EUR 600. It is very important that this little help in the first few days where they do not have the necessary, that they can also obtain with this help. It needs to be reviewed. It's not just your thing, it's also the interior. We need to re-examine it, re-examine it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u48	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Kegeroglu, I must admit that your reaction from the moment the major earthquake occurred, which hit Crete last Monday until the question under discussion was more than direct. Really when I saw how long you submitted the question, it was a very big surprise. Of course, the government's response was the same direct one. And I am pleased that from the Step of the House we are given the opportunity to answer and to inform you in detail what we have done as a ministry, but also in general as a government. The big earthquake, you know much better than I did, it happened Monday 27 September this morning. A few hours later, engineers of our Ministry's Natural Disaster Rehabilitation Department were there, in the area, as well as engineers from the building infrastructure that went directly to Minoa Pedodos Town Hall and formed the coordinating centre within a little while to see what needs to be done and start the first visual checks. Likewise from the CBYP, the technical steps with the mandate of Minister Kostas Karamanlis went to Crete in the field of their responsibilities, the health units went to the health centers, we went to the courthouse, we went to all schools and we examined what exactly is going on. The next day, the autopsies began the difficulty with the post-Semitisms, as you well know, by fifty engineers from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. We also immediately sent a document to the municipality to show the spaces so that the thirty-three first settlers could be sent immediately to cover the housing needs of the affected and who are also readily available. You know very well, because we communicate almost daily, that we are in constant contact with the mayor, the district chief and the local MPs there. I will submit the necessary documents for your information on exactly what we have sent to the mayor of the most affected area. That is why we are preparing, and I have to know, a large supply of ninety houses for the same reason in the next few days. At the moment in Crete there are about 100 engineers and our own and the Ministry of Infrastructure, as well as the supervised bodies, so that we can proceed as quickly as possible. We are also committed as a government to making them as soon as possible, but above all we must ensure the safety of our engineers, because unfortunately we have constant post-Semitism vibrations. We believe that within the next few days these checks will have been completed, so the IAEA will be ready to draw up the relevant NSA to demarcate the affected areas and to grant housing assistance to the owners of the affected buildings to restore the earthquake of July 24th and the earthquake which took place on Monday. This KAY will provide for housing assistance for the restoration of the private buildings and buildings belonging to the Greek State. At the same time, our address will make the adoption of a ministerial decision in order to determine the dates and a procedure for granting the rental subsidy to meet the needs. You know very well, because we were there all these hours, that both the Prime Minister and the Minister responsible, Mr Stylianides, were there. We coordinated with a competent governmental step all our reaction. We were next to the people, we saw the great damage that has happened and I think the government has given us answers how we should deal with some things both with hotels and homes from the "EXTIA" program and with camps to deal with this really difficult and very intense earthquake phenomenon as soon as possible. Mr. Kegeroglu, you will allow me to say more specific things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u50	Me, too. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the reaction was immediate because it happened in our country and there we are no visitors. We're with the people who've been hurt all these days. Indeed, the service of the Ministry of Infrastructure which was already there to record and control the houses affected by the previous earthquake was strengthened by staff and I hope it will go ahead. But we want you to tell us more specific things. When do you estimate that the first microscopic check of all the buildings affected will be completed, after the citizens' statements? Some of whom do not make statements, but the step checks if it passes through the side. And the second question is when do you assess, on the basis of the seismic risk assessment carried out in order to detach the seismic activity, that the committees will start to characterise the final damage to the buildings? How long in your opinion will it take for it to be completed? Because this is all linked to the compensation package. In order to make a safe statement and not estimated by the owner, it is important to have - although not required - the final assessment of the committee. So it would be important if you told us. We now go to the issue of temporary housing, apart from the scenes that we said in the next few days there should be no more. You said right about the thirty-three direct houses, plus ninety, so we have a hundred twenty-three together with the auction, which will be available to the city. In school halls, do we have a number, some evolution? Because there are some schools in the wider region. Will the hundred and twenty-three houses be just for the municipality of Minoa, or will it be for other municipalities? Have other municipalities been applied for? I don't know. I would like you to let me know if there has been any debate and a decision by the Government on the organisational reconstruction. You know that small settlements have no plan, they only have delimitation. So when the owners of certain houses are called - which is now in some square, two and a half-mile streets, and reading or chicmas, i.e. deadlocks - to build a modern home with the money that the state will give and which are important, I think there will be an abortion. There is no possibility of doing that. They need new backgrounds in all the settlements, which are more than a percentage of the damage and are not few. In other words, both Humerie and Xinda and Musuta, and Lower Poulia and Sabbas and Russochoria and other settlements have a large proportion of them. Therefore, there is a need for a new background and a new distribution of ownership to become new dwellings. In particular, for the village of Russochori, the proposal I made to Mr Mitsotakis for relocation, in my view, is more than necessary. The residents want it. You can and should, by means of a specific procedure, proceed with their relocation to the west and to the limits of the general urban plan of Arkalochori, which is currently available. Minister, these are issues which, if we plan and anticipate now, will go ahead, otherwise unfortunately we will see for two and three years the settlements, which we will now set up for temporary housing, which will be permanent in nature. And that will not be honorable for our state, it will not be honorable for the government, it will not be honorable for any of us, of course. See you now and we are hitting the alarm, but we are making concrete proposals. I'd like to know your opinion on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u52	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u53	Mr Kegeroglu, I have to admit that your remarks are really to the point. I congratulate you on the fact that during the meeting with our Prime Minister you have spoken about matters that the government has really taken them seriously since the first time and to which we are trying to respond. I'll probably start with the hardest thing about relocation. I think the Prime Minister himself answered you and we will address this issue. We are considering it positively. At the moment, however, let me tell you that from the Step of the House it is very difficult to commit ourselves to this. As far as homes are concerned, correspondence will be filed for the establishment of citizens in the Minutes of the Parliament. I'm expecting the municipality to show us the spaces so they can come down. They have already moved to the port of Piraeus, because we also have maritime transport. I think in the next few days, the first people will be covered in this way. But we expect - and from the outset we have been in constant cooperation with the republic, with the mayor - both hotels and campsites and housing and so people can be covered there. As far as schools are concerned, it seems that within the next few days we will have a clear picture and see the first rooms, which we will have to go down there. We will try this time and use the means of teleconferencing to fill a gap with the housekeepers for the teaching rooms, but also to proceed directly and quickly to the rooms' repairs so that the children come quickly to the teaching rooms. For the autopsies you asked me, I think the Minister told you that, until last night, we were up to two thousand hundred and eighty-five and will proceed as quickly as possible. Now, because you asked me for specific things about autopsy. There is a technical issue. Engineers are there trying. I wish all the houses were open. I wish the owners were there, but too many owners are gone right now. The houses are not open and we cannot identify exactly when we will be able to finish the autopsies. I wish it were a little more organized than the municipality's side and we could open all houses and beyond the external visual control we could get inside and see what damage has been done. That's technically difficult. It makes perfect sense, of course, because the seismic phenomenon is still going on. So I can't answer you right now if we're done in three, four or five days. I wish we could finish as fast as we can and have an image now. As far as the government is concerned, what you said about the cost of repairs or the reconstruction of the building. You know, in the way we apply now, with the state aid we are giving, with the 20,000 that a citizen can get home with a serious disaster and cannot live there, and he will cover his expenses and start the process and pay the engineer for the repair period. It's the best way. This way it gives immediate solution and immediate breath to all these people to make a start. The state's next door. In the next few days - you were at the meeting and you heard the Prime Minister - Mr Triantopoulos, the Minister responsible, together with the Secretary-General for Spatial Planning, will come down to the municipality, see all these issues and we will deal with them very systematically and methodically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Now we will discuss the second question by number 1086/24-9-2021, first question by SYRIZA's MP, Mr. Christos Giannoulis, with the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The exact amount of the reserve of the "ATITIMERO S.A.". The State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr. Georgios Karagiannis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Madam President. I hope the truth expressed in this Chamber has the orbit of the hearing some years ago, when you conquered the world record and yesterday we had the anniversary of this distinction. Unfortunately, however, arrows are being launched which have nothing to do with the truth. I heard Mr Karamanlis, Minister of State, not answering questions about the issues of Thessaloniki's works. And I understand why he's not answering. But at the same time, it seeks a reasonable step, a reasonable starting point, where opposition and government will find a common place to come to an agreement. The question also arises on the management of the reserves of "ATTIC MEETRO S.A." from September 2019 until June or July 2021 -- choose any date you want - for the use of these funds that were touching in September 2019, 920 million and now it is about 250 to 270 million reserves. This is netted out to 37 billion which, with struggle, sweat and blood, were gathered and released for the first time in our post-cultural history in the succession government in July 2019. But the question is not just moral. It also has a development dimension. Because looking for a common place of government - Anti-Population, at least for infrastructures to find a reasonable understanding, you cannot constantly invoke the hare, funny, unfounded argument for the Thessaloniki subway'squash', when there is historically captured or progressed between 2016 and 2019 from 30% close to 75% -89%. I'm going to quote an indicative statistical imprint. In two years' time, while there was funding in 2016-2019 with an annual average of 300 to 350 million, you from the reserves, from the ready-to-do money - because, in the previous one, I am referring to European funding through the NRP - in twenty-six months, you have financed projects - not in one year - and you have 317 million euros, that is, the previous administration in about one year. My question will remain in the sphere of honesty. How you operated these reserves, the valuable composting of Greek citizens, on the basis of which and on the basis of the performance of the previous administration and government - yes, tell the truth - in 2021 without Venizelos Station Thessaloniki would have a metro. And leave these poaching - thankfully not you personally, Mr Karamanlis - that we were talking about 2020 in 2019, etc. In 2021, if it had not been for the displacement of Gianati Mitsotakis for the secondment of the ancients, Thessaloniki would have metro stations in operation. Now let's go to the reserves, and I'll come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u57	Mr Giannoulis, I am thinking, although the question of your colleague, Mr Papapas, and your question is to really promote how good a job we do in the Ministry of Infrastructure. In fact, I am very impressed by what Mr Pappas said. I'm really surprised. In other words, I should just like to list the works currently being done in Thessaloniki. The works, not the words, not the mushrooms. Go to Halkidiki and see if there's any contraction. Go to Thermi - Galatist see if she becomes a contractor. See what's going on on the road connection. Go to Kalochori and see the contractor's construction site for the road connection. These are works in Thessaloniki. Right now, you want to tell you about what we've started, about the court palace, about the school units? But not eating our time for Thessaloniki, because I imagine we will be able to answer them again now. Indeed, by having a very substantial and very fruitful parliamentary debate, I would like to tell you, Mr Giannoulis, it is good in this Chamber when we reproduce publications, check them out. I would like to make this clear to you. The companies of the Greek State, such as “ATIO MERO S.A.”, have no profits to create reserves. So there is no word reserve. The reserves you mentioned have nothing to do with the 'cushion', as you say the previous government left. The company's reserve and other cash assets are different. So, on 30-9-2019, there were 920 million. Do you know where these were from? They were from the European Investment Bank's loans and from the EIF's co-financed section. This amount is intended exclusively for the financing of the metro projects, the cover of the interest-rate and the cover of all kinds of operating costs of the company, such as salaries, third-party remuneration and overheads. Do you know why I started like this, Mr. Yannoulis? What does it mean to absorb all this money? It means that "ATITIC METRO S.A." really does work, does work, and in my denture I'll tell you exactly where this money went. We have nothing to hide at all. Now, with regard to absorption, I just want you to ask your colleagues who gave you the following information: In these figures, is the money given for arbitration, yes or no? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u58	Me too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u59	Minister, at our other parliamentary meeting yesterday I told you and I will repeat that in politics and life we are doing what we are doing and not what we are saying. And because the numbers are specific and you passed them, whether they are available or reserve is 920 million Greek citizens. Do we agree on that? Well done. These 920 million were made available, on the basis of your own figures, to finance projects over twenty-six months 317 million. Is that accurate?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u60	I'll tell you exactly how much it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u61	It's expensive. In contrast to the previous administration and government - and I say this again - which, on average, financed projects, project development, where from 30% to 70% of the project's implementation, with an average of 300 million. It's just as clear. I would like to ask you questions why this parliamentary procedure also has you in a position to answer us in a position to ask. The roles are not reversed. They will be overturned very soon after the elections. With regard to the management or direction of the reserve, of the available 920 million can you explain to us whether the 'ATTIF S.A.' has been requested during this period to finance European funds? You know, I imagine, that it is a project financed by the ESDP with the completion of the second accession in 2023. Do we agree on that? So there was the possibility instead of the available resources being given in the way that this fund, the 'ATIO MEETRO S.A.' money, was given to seek funding from European funds? Is the project co-financed? It is. Are these projects, which have been financed, or are they paradoxical or other inspirations of the new administration, and could not be approved by the managing authority? I'm asking a question. For twenty-six months the Greek State - and did not question it - has not financed "ATTIF S.A." almost even with one euro. Has public investment requested funding? We are talking about both Athens and Thessaloniki for projects of high importance for the quality of life, transport and now for the safety and health of citizens. For the question you have asked me, and I close with it, you must answer from where the compensation paid by the contractors has been paid for the delays, inertia and inertia, which was obvious, is eye-eye. That is why I am telling you that, because you and I have a picture of Thessaloniki, it would be nice not only to use the transport of third parties and usually political collages - I am referring to Mr Karamanlis - for the real picture. We have eyes and we are seeing you, and I, and the citizens, who are watching us for what you say, what is the reality of what we say. No one can enter into the truth of vision and perception of things. Answer me and do not ask me the question of where the contractors and construction companies have been compensated for all these damages, which have been paid and to what extent we risk seeing them in the future. In conclusion, what I want to say is that, because the figures are specific, the need for the implementation of the project is specific. You have given contradictory interpretations and dates. Ms. Mendoni told us about 2025, the Prime Minister in 2023 and finally Mr. Karamanlis, if I remember correctly, said about the autumn of 2023. Mr. Mitsotakis took it to the end of 2023 and Mrs. Mendonis has remained in 2025, but this is another matter. Ensure two things: the transparent, ethical and effective management of the fund, the reserve - as you want to say, say it - and also the exhaustion of financial instruments that will not be charged with Greek citizens' pockets, so simply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u63	Mr Giannoulis, I repeat with all due respect to your parliamentary presence, they are cash available. Cash reserves are the other ones and the reserve is the ones. Not having a corporate law class here, it has nothing to do with it, but it's two different things. They have nothing to do with each other. You told me about numbers and indemnity. But for the compensation you are asking for, ask your colleagues. They know it, they'll answer it to you themselves. We don't have to answer that. We'll answer you for what we've done for twenty-one months. Because for twenty-one months it's been the evidence you've submitted to us for 920 million. And there we will see the progress made in Piraeus. I will tell you, by work, exactly what progress has been made and where all this money has gone. It's just matters, Mr. Giannoulis. You know all these issues in the 'GENERAL', the managers know them, our European partners know them, they are well-known. The company is completely open and you go yourself and ask for anything you want. We are also very happy to reply to you during parliamentary scrutiny. As I quite rightly said, from 920 million to 30-6-2021 projects were used for 318 million. I can tell you exactly where they were used: For the metro at Piraeus 84.5 million, for the metro of Thessaloniki, the basic work, 190.23 million, for the metro of Thessaloniki in Kalamaria 30 million and for the tram of Piraeus 9.87. For the rest of the numbers, because there are more left, there are secondary auxiliary contracts of 3,22 million. But especially for the other costs than these projects, I can also give you additional information, such as that VAT on the projects from 1-10-2019 to 30-6-2021 amounted to approximately 70 million, interest and expenses of the European Investment Bank, about 167 million, debts relating to the repayment of funds of 168 million, payroll is 22.5 million and operating expenses with VAT 7.35. Of course, I have to tell you that the "ATTIC METRO S.A." within these figures, in 900 million, has to add its revenue because it has some revenue from the reimbursement of VAT, from the collection of interest, from the collection of COVID expenditure and from the exploitation of the parking lots. So this number is 95,78. We have nothing to hide, Mr. Giannoulis, absolutely nothing. The works in Thessaloniki go ahead, the works in Piraeus go ahead. In the summer of 2022 Piraeus will be able to connect to the airport in fifty minutes. And now, because you came back and brought back the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, but what we said was the truth, Mr Giannoulis. First of all, my colleague, Mr Pappas, claimed that the metro would be ready in 2020. You, I think, are right, but unfortunately that is not true either, you said about 2021. The government says Thessaloniki will have a metro in 2023. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u64	Isn't Mrs. Mendoni in the government?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u65	Mrs Mendoni clearly said that, if by 2025 everything is not done and the work is done, and financially and accountingly, the European Commission will ask us for the money back. He didn't say the project would end in 2025. Don't twist, please, reality. Ms. Mendoni is a very experienced politician, she knows the work very well and thanks to her, the metro of Thessaloniki will proceed because the work that is being done in archaeology in Thessaloniki is very important. The Thessalonians will have subway and ancient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u66	Me too, Minister. We move to the second under number 1082/22-9-2021 on a topical question by the Member of the Halkidiki Movement of Change Mr.Apostolos Pana to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the subject: "Admiral armour of the Olympiad of Halkidiki", which will also be answered by the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr Karayannis. You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, for once since Stepma, I stress Halkidiki's great need for infrastructure in order to ensure self-evidentness to its citizens and to further support tourism, the rural economy and the overall social development and progress of Halkidiki. I will not get far as I think you are already aware of the severe weather phenomena that hit the Olympiad region in Halkidiki in November 2019. Many of the floods in the region suffered significant damage, as well as huge road sections in the wider region. The society and the local community of Olympiads have stressed this, but I, too, through numerous parliamentary interventions, have repeatedly pointed out that the sharp gradients of the rams are dangerous and in imminent flooding may be lost further property, but the lives of the Olympiads and the surrounding areas may be at great risk. This situation is also known to the competent authorities, and until now, Minister, the affected have not been compensated. During the floods, there were responsible services both within the region and the Ministry was there, but unfortunately, the flooding which had to be done so far has not progressed. For these reasons, I would like to ask you: what specific timetable will the procedures be completed, so that Olympiada Halkidiki finally acquire the flooding that she deserves? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u68	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Member, reading your question and preparing my answer - I have thought about it - I understand that many times the responsibilities between the Greek state are indiscriminate. In this particular question, however, because I also have a particular sensitivity and on that day of disasters I was there, with the then Secretary-General of Civil Protection - a little while after the flooding was over, we saw it, we saw what happened - we are in constant contact with the mayor and we are dealing with all the issues that exist. However, I have to clarify some things to avoid misunderstandings and not to mention words of indifference, because, in fact, there is no indifference from our Government on all these issues. We are above all matters, we are watching them, we are giving answers and we are giving solutions. Of course, we need to know who is responsible for each of the actions needed to prevent these extreme weather phenomena, as well as for restoring the impact of disasters on infrastructure and housing. In view of this, then, let me clarify the following. Responsibilities relating to the design, design, construction and maintenance of flooding projects, as well as powers relating to the cleaning, policing of ramps and expropriated areas in the vicinity of the ravages shall be exercised exclusively by the regions concerned. The anti-milling works carried out on the mountain basins, such as mountainous hydronomial works, small woodheads and small forest projects, fall within the competence of the Forest Service, which until a few days ago was under decentralised administration and now is a service of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. What I am saying to you, Mr Papoutsis, is also mentioned in the document on civil protection, which is posted in the 'DIVING' document on dealing with risks arising from flooding. The responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport in respect of the anti-military and post-military projects sector is only for a single category, these projects characterised by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport as specifically and national level anti-military projects and of which are excluded from the maintenance and cleaning of aqueducts. So I think to some extent I have described our responsibilities and I am very pleased to tell you in my denture, what exactly we have done, for the municipality you are referring to.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u70	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u71	First of all, I would like to say that I have never referred to the word indifference. It is something that I am very careful about and, if anything, I said that you have visited the region since the first moment. However, we must understand, as there is a confusion of competence, that I have sent a letter to the Region of Central Macedonia from the start, but never have we received the answer that we wanted, and when we are in front of a very special and difficult winter, where you are all aware that climate change has brought about huge changes, there is a great risk that we will face such phenomena and, through these phenomena, have results which will be touched at the same time and central power. I would like to tell you that the affected areas had been visited and I myself as the head of the gradient of the Change Movement and I saw myself the size of the disasters. There were hopeless images and it seemed that until then there was a rough restoration of previous damages and a superficial response to the problem. So the issue is from here and beyond what we are talking about here, because it is a matter which is very much concerned with the inhabitants of Olympiad, Halkidiki, a part which also has mining activity, but which is also based on tourism, there have been too many actions taken by the chairman of the local council, from the municipal authority and obviously some things are not going on. And because we are in front of the Recovery Fund, which, as it turns out, will be a tool which can be used to finance these coke flooding projects, I think the Ministry too, in cooperation with the region, even though the powers can be confused at some level, can speed up all the procedures with its own contribution. In other words, we must overcome the upcoming bureaucracy. That is why we are here, when some are blocking, hierarchizing the issues, hierarchising the problems that exist, because through the problems there are property, there are also human lives, which, as I said before, these assets from 2019 - and from this Step having asked a timely question - have still not been compensated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Undersecretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u73	Madam President, Mr Gjikostas, we have been in constant contact with the Region of Central Macedonia, and from the first moment there was the district manager, Mr Gjikostas, who, from what we have seen in the next period, made sure that the necessary water supplies are cleared, and that the region is above these issues and is aware of the criticalness of the Olympian region, and that is very important, as is the interest shown by the mayor of the region, in order to promote the interests and to move forward. We have been in contact with him many times, often he has asked us and made requests. We have already been asked for EUR 1.7 million, which we have already accepted, and it is our political decision to move on, but we are not only there when it comes to this region. We have already credited 597 000 for restoring technical works to upgrade the urban environment of the municipality store in Ierissos, in order to make some flooding works in the area, and I can give it to you by decision, which we signed a few days ago, the commitment of more than 120,000 to the Municipality of Aristotle was approved for restoring the damage of a river drainage network in the communities of Arnaia and Palaiochori. We are next to the area, we understand the issues that this region has and we are open to any cooperation with you and with the authorities, the mayor and the district manager, so where the know-how of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and his services can help you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. There will be a short break, so that we can get on the agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation: "Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation" and the Greek State for the strengthening and upgrading of infrastructure in the health sector and its annexes and other emergency provisions to address the pandemic of the COVID -19 Koronioi". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 23 September 2021 to discuss the draft law at a single sitting in principle, on articles and amendments. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is naturally proposed that the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives should be involved, a first cycle involving one speaker from each of the parliamentary groups and a 12-mile circle of speakers with the following proportion: five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA and one colleague from each of the other parties. With a teleconference service - Webex platform - and with a natural presence a 12-mile circle of speakers is also proposed with the same ratio. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. In addition to the two ministerial amendments, which are of the Ministry of Health and are here both Ministers, they have been notified of the remaining three amendments in a timely manner that any minister will defend them and present them. I think there is no objection to the basic suggestion. So we can start. The general rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Neocles Cretan, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all let us say a good month. After three meetings in the Committee on Social Affairs, we are going to the House today to discuss the draft law of the Ministry of Health entitled: "Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation", 26-7-2021 amendment and replacement by 3-6-2019 individual Donation Convention for Project VI from 6-9-18 Donation Convention between the Foundation of the Joint Benefits "Association of Stavros S. Niarchos" and the Greek State for the strengthening and upgrading of infrastructure in the field of health and its annexes and other urgent provisions to address the CIVID Koroniovius pandemic -19." The bill is divided into two parts. For the first part I think we have all agreed that the relationship and cooperation with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation only brings positive results and any changes are always judged under the conditions in which we are in agreement with the donor. The initial amendment to the Convention on the establishment of radiopharmaceutical plants was decided under the conditions which we faced at the early stage of the pandemic, taking into account the exceptional difficulty of creating radiopharmaceutical plants by issuing special licences and, respectively, the economic price for the purchase of medicinal products. In those circumstances, therefore, which we consider through the light of the crisis and taking into account the cost-benefit ratio, it was considered to be more beneficial for the Greek State to limit the contract only to the supply of PET/CT special medical equipment with a five-year maintenance guarantee. Today, however, and after thorough discussions and consultations again between the Foundation "Stavros Niarchos" and the Greek State, and following an evaluation of the progress of the project, both sides considered that the Greek State's initial commitment to prepare all the necessary technical actions through the company "KITIANS INFRASTRUCTIONS" would lead to delays in the completion of the project. Thus, under No 1256 from 31-12-2020, the former Deputy Minister for Health was decided, for the sake of better service of the project, that the supplier should undertake the completion of the studies, the construction of the individual premises and the installation of the machinery. The costs were balanced by a reduction of the maintenance guarantee from five to two years, while the TIPS was defined as responsible for coordinating the technical programme by the Greek State, so that in cooperation with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation and the contractor to help resolve procedural and licensing issues. The total completion cost of Project VI is estimated at 7,250,000 euros. The donation will be completed and delivered in accordance with the update of the project schedule in February 2022. I now come to the second part of the bill containing renewal of contracts and provisions relating to exceptional conditions, which we have faced and are facing because of a pandemic, as well as provisions to achieve a higher rate of vaccination in sensitive social groups that do not have easy access to vaccination centres, nor have they the possibility to apply through the online platform. I mention, as yesterday, a number of extensions planned until the end of the year: the employment contracts of private individuals with a certain time of different specialisations, which serves at the central agency of the Ministry of Health. The fixed-term employment contracts of EGE doctors placed. The EGE's fixed-term private-law contracts for care and cleaning, catering and feeding services. The delegation of services by the EGE for the examination of samples by private providers. The validity of the regulation on the recruitment of medical nurses and other EGE assistants. The availability of medical ERC personnel to units of special infections of the ERC. The conduct of rapid test and the obligation to register electronically in the National Register of Patients COVID -19. The validity of the procedure for sending medicinal products to patients and vulnerable groups that are restricted. The validity of the existing contracts of family doctors and family private doctors. Conversion of use of beds to IF and MAT. The compulsory disposal of public spaces to the public for the protection of public health. The conclusion of contracts for strengthening primary health care structures is also prolonged. Furthermore, it continues to be possible to accept donations from individuals and all legal persons to the EGE, a practice which only had positive effects to show. Recently I mention the extension of the health coverage of uninsured and vulnerable social groups in need of hospitalisation regardless of their illness, which were institutionalised by Law 4368/2016 and No 4753/2020. Then, in particular, in Chapter IV of Part Two, and in particular in Articles 30 to 34, provisions are contained for the maximum possible vaccination coverage of vulnerable social groups by civil society, mainly citizens of third countries or stateless persons. The proposed provisions amend the legislative framework to include other administrative structures than JEPs for the issue and issue of a provisional MMF or a CIVID-19 certificate to specific categories of beneficiaries. The regulation is necessary, as we want the maximum flexibility to be provided in the granting of the temporary MMF or the vaccination certificate, in particular to vulnerable social groups which are unable to come in person to the JEPs in order to obtain the relevant documents and do not have the necessary digital skills to request electronically. It is also necessary, at last, to decongested the JEPs which are currently the only natural administrative structures for granting temporary AMCA or CIVID digital certificate -19. We are therefore giving the above-mentioned allocation to a specific administrative structure which serves different social groups and covers various areas of public action. In addition to this, digital vaccination certificates may be issued to the Reception and Identification Service, i.e. to shops and pre-recurring centres. In addition, non-governmental organisations, civil society bodies and non-profit organisations are able to participate in the operational vaccination plan. The purpose of this regulation is to attract vulnerable social groups that do not easily approach the health system, such as homeless, irregular immigrants, while, on the contrary, the medical services of NGOs and municipalities are easier to visit. At the same time, the involvement of the local government and the civil society in the vaccination process is seen as good practice by the European Commission and is particularly effective in attracting vulnerable populations. Finally, Articles 35 to 37 contain other provisions on cleaning, disinfection contracts related to the Ministry of Education, as well as arrangements for dealing with a particular legal person governed by public law, whereas the latter Article contains an extension of the conditions for the disposal of sample products. Alongside the draft law, the amendments which will then be analysed by the relevant ministers have been tabled, and briefly contain the renewal of ancillary staff contracts, the arrangements for the payment of HPAI, the increase in the limit for parental benefits, the strengthening of households and the absorption of the power increase and a number of other beneficial regulations relating to the mobilisation of our fellow citizens to be vaccinated to build our artificial immunity. Key elements and political messages, ladies and gentlemen, from this legislative initiative are: First, the renewal of all ancillary staff contracts by 31 March 2022 all branches of medical, nursing and all other staff of the RIS hospitals, primary health care structures and the supervised bodies of the Ministry of Health, military hospitals, NIMTSA and university hospitals. This shows that the government does not want to lose any more valuable time from possible derailment in the number of cases and thus continues to support the health system in practice. Secondly, extensions of contracts help to manage the pandemic well, as the economy and the citizens do not tolerate any more restrictions on mobility and economic activity. In addition, proper management will give the political leadership time to deal with other serious issues relating to foreign policy and threats that are constantly being launched by the neighbouring Turkey. Thirdly, extensions of contracts related to the management of the pandemic coincide with the Constitution and the way they are legislated through a new draft law are the most appropriate way. Fourthly, the vaccination of vulnerable social groups and, in particular, irregular immigrants is a government bet, so that over-transmissions can be detected and predicted before the spread of the virus cancels any preventive practice. Fifthly, in the context of cooperation and cross-party dialogue, it is possible to identify common policies and convergence points, because at the end of the day we are serving both citizens and the development of social life. Overall, it is a bill that seeks to prevent crises, to enable vulnerable social groups to protect and protect the social whole, to strengthen our country's effort to leave the pandemic. I therefore believe that, through our opposition and our shocks, we can also improve legislative initiatives and become eminent of the shared effort of the overwhelming majority of political forces, finally win this invisible enemy. I therefore urge you to support and vote in favour of this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u77	Mrs Theodora Augeris, the rapporteur-general, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to refer to the aberrations of the last few days from golden neonazis in schools in the people's neighbourhoods of Thessaloniki. After the public statements by the Secretary of State for Education, I think we have understood a great deal. First of all, we realised how dependent the New Democracy of Mitsotakis is on the extreme right. She is so dependent that her executives dare not say things by their name when viewing fascist violence by television. You do not dare, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to condemn the acts of fascist groups of Golden Dawn who are trying to rebuild their nuclei in the people's neighborhoods. Fastoids use school facilities to make cruiser attacks, trampling and beating students, students and protesters against fascism. They shout in favour of the Golden Dawn and take part in an unprecedented anti-communism of other times. In front of the domestic extreme right, which has recently been upgraded to the anti-embolist movement, have given credentials over recent years with hatred towards refugees, immigrants and outlaws of society. But what can you say after that far right fell in love with her in an election, and now you're feeding her into your shell? And how now can you tell her this far right not to show up like that and not to target students, students, up to infants with qualification lists? Of course, some of your bewildered ministers, who make the wrong eyes, are forced to convict the fascists, while at the same time rushing to condemn the anti-fascists if they do not want to be misunderstood by the first, the fascists. With this attitude, ladies and gentlemen, you are committing a historic crime. One year after the final condemnation of the Golden Dawn you let the criminal organization plant its seed in school courtyards. And to combine it with the bill we are debating today in plenary, hand - the New Democracy with the extreme right-wings in society, hand - the New Democracy with the state-owned individuals in the economy. None of this is healthy. None of this fits into a healthy social state, but it is this social state that you are targeting, which you want to unleash. And when democratic citizens, the progressive world rushes to defend this social state, public hospitals, public schools, citizens' right to non-discriminatory rights in the social state, then the hoodiers, children with black clothes, and at the same time the anti-left reflexes are activated. Minister, we have told you in the debate in committee, and we repeat it now in plenary, that it is obvious that you are accelerating and enthusiastic about the total tradition of the public national health system for individuals. And you didn't just deny it, but you clearly told us how charming the PPP model is. To be private The National Health System and with the scripture samples you have already given, you prove to be absolutely faithful to this doctrine. Full privatization of everything. The pandemic in her first wave put a steep brake on your plans, but now in the middle of the fourth and most severe wave, try again to get into the vagina you left incomplete in February 2020, to unfinished the public ESS. Obviously, the parliamentary procedures are not an obstacle to you. You are constantly proving your appeal to anti-parliamentary and anti-institutional procedures. At the beginning of the debate on the bill, even you yourself admitted that it is not a serious parliamentary procedure to come up with a bill on Saturday morning and discuss Monday morning in committee. Today we see that the bill is incorporating a number of amendments which are not even the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. These are serious and very important issues of the economy, of energy, which should be introduced under the appropriate parliamentary procedure and attention and not at the last minute. I don't know if you have the feeling that with this bad legacy you're setting up a trap for us. Let's make it clear that we'll always be ready to arrest your pizzas. The point is, however, that these traps are being set up to trap an entire society into deadlocks even when it comes to the most sensitive issue of public health, people's health. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, with the good morning of each of your ministers, the public property loses its value and a private client is smiling somewhere. This is also the case with this bill, which is now being introduced into plenary for vote. One reads the title for amending the donation contract by the institution "Stavros Niarchos" and will think that donation will eventually strengthen its public health and structures. It reads in the title for strengthening and upgrading health infrastructure. And one will think that you are incentivizing young doctors to go to serve on an instant island or that you are running intensive treatment units that are close to new permanent staff. Unfortunately, however, the only thing that this government majority gets is in the evasive titles. Generally speaking, do not say things by their name and mislead. So you're not saying that you're turning a donation launched by the government of SYRIZA in 2018 from public interest to private interest. You are not saying that you refuse to put an end to the shamefulness and overpricing of radiopharmaceuticals paid by the Greek people five times over other European countries. You are not saying why you refuse public hospitals to produce them. You are not saying that initially this contract allowed four public hospitals to produce radiopharmaceuticals and that you, when you became government, amended that provision. And you are not saying that you have modified it to keep a private monopoly on the market. You are not saying that you have been legislating on health by means of legislative acts for two years, with the House operating in plenary without the presence of Members. You are not saying that for two years now you have abstained from all kinds of parliamentary scrutiny, that you are provokingly refusing to answer parliamentary questions other than the least timely questions and that hundreds of parliamentary questions remain unanswered like those in the case of crime last year in Thessaloniki. You don't say anything about Thessaloniki's crime a year ago, as you don't say why you're going to Lockdown after you did everything so well. You don't say anything about the dead who reach about fifteen thousand, about those who were evacuated out of the ICM because there was no bed in the intensive. Nor do you say for two years that public contracts and supplies in hospitals have been made by way of derogation from all the provisions of the law, nor that the dismantling of public money over your days is unprecedented, since never before with the presentation of a simple invoice, so few people have earned so little. Nor are you saying that you are taking out the hospitals of doctors and nurses and you are putting contractors, that you have turned the public hospitals into hospitals and you have exhausted the limits and powers of health care personnel working irresistibly in the most difficult conditions. On the other hand, you leave dozens of ITH and MFF untapped while the hospitals are in red at the same time. You don't say anything about monoclonal drugs either. Or maybe so far you haven't said anything about monoclonal drugs. Not only did you say nothing, but you were dealing with as graphics those who talked about them, while other countries used and saved lives. You do not say anything about your derailed vaccination programme, that you have failed miserably in every respect in relation to it, even though in clauses 31 below there is a small confession of failure. We were told by the bodies during their hearing, you also admitted that the rates of vaccination in these vulnerable groups are in the tartars and that there is a very late involvement of other bodies in the vaccination programme, such as non-governmental organisations, civil organisations to vaccinate these vulnerable groups. Once again, however, you are doing so without the necessary safeguards without strict scientific supervision and supervision, as a last-minute emergency solution when you have failed in everything else. We have pointed this out to you and we have pointed this out again. As a result, you do not say in these thirty-seven provisions, in these thirty-seven articles, which are simply added to the second part of a bill, a donation contract which, otherwise, started, Mr Ploris and elsewhere, you are taking it. In fact, you do nothing with the provisions that come to enable the public ESS to withstand pandemic, reorientate its powers, strengthen and expand. The whole of society during the pandemic period realised the need for its armour and the strengthening of the public ERC. The government, on the other hand, after having stirred it up, unravelled health workers and workers of all specialties, today comes to entangle them in a special hostage regime of few months. Adopt a grid of incoherent provisions for which no reasonable explanation can be given. And what I would like to say is that the draft law on the definition of all types of temporary contractors is a quarter of the extension of their contracts, that is, the end of the year. In the amendments you tabled yesterday, the definition of extension of contracts ranges from six to twelve months. Based on what logic and on what business plan is all this done? Until the amendments were tabled, we understood that you were putting the end of the pandemic together with the end of the extension of contracts, i.e. 31-12-2021. Finally, decide which criterion you make these extensions and whether the criteria are uniform for everyone. How do you create workers of so many different speeds when everyone is invited to meet the same needs of the pandemic crisis? And please answer what is your health plan for Thessaloniki and the other areas of northern Greece. Put it down and explain the public, by signature of what is proposed and what it decides, so that you do not hide behind the immunity of the committees. It is obvious that you have lost the ball and that, apart from the way you will pave the way to the walk of private interests, despairing public hospitals and public health structures, you cannot organise anything else. Apart from that, you have no organised plan for managing the health crisis. And at this point I would like to point out to you that our request remains the same at the beginning: take back the suspensions of health care. Give a permanent solution to the hostage of all these people who work three, four, five more and six years, with conventions and uncertainty. Leave these horrors with the extensions of three and six months and extend all ancillary contracts, at least until the end of next year, of 2022. Hospitals are narrowed at the expense of the pandemic and the departures of employees with know-how and experience. You bring contractors with direct assignments to cover, supposedly, the gaps that you created with the suspensions, even to get the payroll to the hospital. But that's where they screw up, like at the Syros Hospital where the commander asked the hospital workers to correct the contractor's mistakes. You name the bill "Urgent provisions on the treatment of pandemic" but it seems that the urgency for you is to go to elections with the satisfaction of the people and their hostages. It's not plan b that, of course. It's your main plan. How to overcome the social state, with public hospitals, public schools and all the public structures that keep the society upright despite difficulties. So say, Mr Plouris, to your audience because you have excluded Heraklion, Ioannina, Larissa and Papageorgiou from the installation of a radiopharmaceutical accompanying unit and explain to them whether you can - if you can say so - how things are done, that the monopoly of the one private company that produces and supplies the Greek hospitals with radiopharmaceuticals, with the honor of God, at the expense of the taxpayers and the insurance funds is favoured. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would ask your tolerance for very little longer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u79	All right, all right, Mrs. Aegir.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u80	Say these, what you do, in your amputation - if you dare - do not stop hating their neighbors who envision a good and fair society and every fellow man who fights for a better life and anyone who doesn't put his ego above us. Explain how, suddenly, monoclonal antibodies are introduced today with an institutional amendment so that the state can obtain monoclonal antibodies when these preparations are finally approved. You, until yesterday, weren't you the one who opposed all the relevant statements and started mud campaigns against those with scientific arguments about them? Ladies and gentlemen - and I will conclude - the New Democracy of another Mitsotakis cannot hide either its neoliberalism or its neo-conservativeism. Another piece of legislation loads everything from its outdated ideological cheques and anything from customer requests. One would expect that it could, at least, result in the management of the pandemic and health crisis. She can't either. And this seems to be clear now in how it orchestras the complete depreciation and degradation of the ESS, since it deprives the public structures of valuable resources and the potential for healthy development, it gradually begins to apply the next stage, that of depriving human resources. You insist on the availability and inhibition of doctors’ work, while gaps are swelling, risking the lives of hundreds of patients. Intrusion of ancillary and contractors. Of course, the government and its new Minister do not do what these people will do, despite the promises and applause that they welcomed the pandemic heroes. I suppose either you don't consider them your customers or you don't know how to reward someone without following, intermittent, direct assignment. Minister, we don't just call you, we demand it. Put before Parliament, put before the House, in the Standing Committee on Social Affairs, your sanitary plan to deal with this fourth heavy wave of pandemic, both in Thessaloniki and in northern Greece, but also in the other regions of the country to know both the Greek Parliament and the Greek people who are, at last, this plan and what its authors are. By name and signature and see.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u81	The special speaker will now take the floor from the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Poulas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the first good month. The epidemiological evidence shows that the pandemic is still here and insists. Already in northern Greece, it is expected to become more threatening, especially now that it has started increasing cases between children as a result of the opening of schools. Once again, the situation escapes to Thessaloniki, Larissa, Kilkis, Halkidiki, Drama and other areas, just like a year ago, when northern Greece was at the heart of the spread of the virus. Areas of the country are entering mini-lockdown and the tourist season is still not over on our islands, nor of course has the winter that favours the co-existence and spreading of the krone. We realise that the situation, especially in northern Greece, becomes more difficult every day. Elevation of cases may lead to an increase in hospitalisations either in single beds or in ICU beds. This means that the National Health System should have been prepared yesterday. On the contrary, we see that there is still a great shortage of medical and nursing staff, which has deteriorated and with the suspension of work of invasive health. Do you, Ministers, have to adopt the WTO proposal for two rapid tests a week on unvaccinated health in order to return to work and fill gaps? Minister, you have recently visited with Mrs. Deputy Minister of Health of Northern Greece in order to see the situation there closely. But you did not tell us what your plan is for the regions that I mentioned to go through this difficult period. It is known that these areas have low vaccination coverage, suggesting that the situation can easily be excreted. So you must take measures of a general nature immediately, such as deciding what is going to happen with the parades ahead of 28 October, but also the measures to avoid confusing public transport and schools. Let's not forget that last year, October 28 was the catalyst of the Black November we lived in. In addition, how do you plan to meet the needs of health personnel in northern Greece? We know there's a great shortage of doctors in key specialties. Last year we saw the phenomenon of movements of personnel from structure to structure either necessarily or voluntarily, which weakened local health structures, but also led the staff to physical and mental cleansing. This time private sector involvement should be essential and with an organised plan rather than a fragmentary and selective one. We cannot forget that last year the private health units chosen to join the pandemic battle did not offer the expected. These conditions come to add the information from our hospitals. We have the second largest number of deaths permeated in Europe and the largest number of deaths by COVID which touch about fifteen thousand. Depending on our population, they are elements of the quality of the country's health system. One in four cases is now children, which are more frequent and heavier with strains of the Delta mutation. Thirty percent of cases are children and young people. What exactly is your plan to strengthen the pediatric structures of the country we read and hear that you have in recent years? And we're not just talking about Athens and Thessaloniki, we're talking about the region. We would like you to inform us of your intentions to increase child care, because what we have seen so far is that the measures you take are being taken after a celebration. We want to wake you up, because if children with a coronary increase the paediatric clinics that are currently in the country will not be enough. And you know that very well. The private sector use plan for non COVID incidents can only be implemented in Athens, go to Thessaloniki. In no case can it be implemented in the region, since there are no private pediatric clinics. How do you plan to deal with this? Minister, regarding the issue of vaccinations, the Change Movement does not criticise you for how the programme was set up. On the contrary, we think it was a successful program in his organization. The problem was not how people's appointments and service were closed. The problem was, and is the time between now and the citizen is convinced to close the appointment. That's what we're criticising. We believe that you have failed to convince citizens of the benefits of vaccination. It has been almost ten months since the vaccination programme started and our comparison with other countries in Europe, such as Portugal, Spain, Denmark, has been disappointing. Why is that so? Have we investigated it? Have we seen it? What are you doing to convince the six hundred thousand unvaccinant citizens of our country to be vaccinated specifically in northern Greece? The number of our unmistakable fellow citizens does not seem to be reduced, as the stubborn and willing to embrace theories of conspiracy are adding to those who have lost their confidence in your Government and are consciously refusing to accept the compulsion you have imposed without any attempt to make any persuasive. As to children and adolescents twelve to seventeen years old what have you done for them to convince them? How have you strengthened the feeling of solidarity and social conscience of young people to be vaccinated to protect the elderly? Where are the information activities in schools on the benefits of vaccination, which you announced? Where did the EUR 18.5 million that was spent on an information campaign in favour of vaccination that none of us understood? Scientists insist that with invasive children schools will not be able to stay open after holidays. For the time being, however, you are managing a situation with seeing and doing without any planning for telematics, to fill the learning gaps, to add actors, waiting with apathy for the situation to peak in the educational community. Another issue I want to raise is the issue of monoclonal antibodies. We believe that monoclonal antibodies are not a solution to the conflict against the coronary, but a part of it. The vaccine is what has brought positive effects on the treatment of pandemic. However, it is good that the issue of the introduction of monoclonal antibodies is regulated in our country. I would, however, like to draw your attention here, Minister, to the right use of the therapeutic protocols to be issued by scientists. Their use is not always addressed to patients with CIVID -19. To see results, we need to make reasoned use. Minister, with regard to donations, the previous head of the Ministry of Health avoided bringing information to the Committee on Social Affairs of the House on their exploitation. Apart from a well-known brochure distributed by the previous Minister of Health about a year and a half ago, we do not know the type of donation, the amount of material and equipment purchased and which public hospitals or public primary care structures were made available. Why are you keeping us in the dark on this matter? We are asking for the Committee on Social Affairs to be convened to inform us of the donations that have been made over the entire period of the pandemic and where and how they have been used. Under this logic you choose to modify the initial contract of the Greek State with the public-benefited institution "Stavros Niarchos" after the supply of this cycle and the obligation of the public to prepare technical studies for the four hospitals where the PET - CT will be placed. We recall that these studies were made by the public limited company "CITIRIAN INFRASTRUCTURES S.A.", which has succeeded the S.A., "DEPANOM", the "MEMBER CONSTRUCTION". They are organisations building schools, hospitals, courthouses with experienced and skilled executives. What assessment has he found unable to draw up the technical measures necessary for the installation of the PET-CT machines in time? It is clear that you do not trust the structures and staff of the public, namely those who supported and supported the public character of health, education, technical infrastructure, auditors of any arbitraryness and inadequacy of the private sector you have established. This is how you jump in the past, as you have a state-owned, introverted private sector that is only demanding, as private health providers who have proved very few in front of the large and sudden demands of the pandemic. Otherwise the draft law you bring yet again is not worthy of our expectations. It does not mean any incision, no reform, no vision. It simply extends for the third, fourth time, exceptional arrangements to deal with the pandemic which can no longer be characterised after eighteen months of coronary. With COVID -19 we now have an integral part of our daily lives, it is unreasonable to maintain, in force, temporary provisions, such as the staffing of the ESS, which is redundant every day with retirements, termination of contracts and suspensions of employment. At the same time that private doctors enter the ESS and return to the feeding, storage, cleanliness of hospitals, notices to cover empty organic positions proceed slowly. Finally, Minister, do you know, on the basis of the bodies that have hospitals, how many vacancies there are in nursing and medical staff and should they be covered next time? In the years of the crisis, too many doctors and nurses had to leave the country and seek better luck abroad. Young doctors know very well that they are leaving abroad because they find better working conditions and financial gains. If you really want to stop the doctors' Brain Drain will have to change their payroll immediately. And also an important issue is the wage upgrade of nurses, their integration into heavy and unhealthy, we have been calling it for how long. COVID -19 as an occupational disease and thus the death of COVID -19 as an accident at work must be characterised as an accident at work. Also, we need to see the issue of doctors' civil responsibility again, because lately you see complaints are growing against fellow doctors from people who are forgotten, to say it popular, who turn against doctors. We need to see this. You have brought an amendment including the so-called solution to the problem of the lack of anesthetics from the hospitals in the country. Indeed, I acknowledge that many doctors do not choose the specificity of anesthesiology. During the pandemic their deficiency was crucial, as they have the important role in undertaking the intubation of CIVID-19 patients when their respiratory function deteriorated. This does not mean, however, that the other specialities of doctors who were involved with COVID -19 did not have a significant contribution to treating the incidents. So, the financial stimulus you give anestheticists is not for you some sort of injustice for doctors of other specialties? What do you say to the intensive, pneumonologists, pathologists, cardiologists, who have been on the front line all this time? Most importantly, what do you respond to the new children, the qualified ones, who are all day in hospitals, within CIVID -19 clinics, with ten on-calls on their back every month and who receive EUR 50 for the on-call clean? What are we going to tell these doctors? How are we going to convince them to stay and offer their services to our country? I would ask you to see this more carefully, because you are in danger of creating two speed doctors in hospitals. I don't want to expand any further, because I know firsthand what's going on in hospitals. I know what every specialty offers. Minister, although all scientists stress that strong primary health care will be a shield on the spread of the virus, you choose not to listen to the complacentness of your centralised state. The Change Movement called on you from the first moment of the pandemic to put local government into battle, as only OTAs A' and B grades can know the local specificities of each region, the health needs of local populations, the vulnerable social groups of each region and can effectively coordinate and organise tests, but also the participation in vaccination of EGE's mobile units, local medical associations and civil society bodies. You've spent eighteen months listening to us, listening to the voice of reason. Indeed, a large part of the vulnerable social groups remains inconsistent: Roma, immigrants, homeless. But it is the state that has to be found in the camps, closed structures, streets, to show them its interest, to convince them to be vaccinated and not to urge them to take themselves, in the dogma of individual responsibility, to seek the vaccine. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'm gonna need a minute. For you these weak fellow citizens are also invisible to the margin. For them, you are announcing measures without knowing whether and how they will eventually be implemented if they are implemented. For example, who will coordinate, who will monitor and by what means are they vaccinated by local and civil society bodies? For the same reason, keep the provisions for the supplies of personal protective medical equipment by way of derogation. How much money has been spent and, above all, how much of it has been reached in public hospitals and have they been spent to protect public health? Minister, in closing, your Government must shake an arrow in the way it manages the pandemic, but also in general the National Health System. We once again call on you in national dialogue on the ESS, on the primary health we want, and we deserve it for the 21st century, so that you do not take unilateral measures on privatisation, which conflict with the common sense and the needs of society. In the consciousness of the vast majority of citizens, the ESR has been justified, restored, it has become the dominant pillar of public health support. Its protection must remain a state case so that it is available to every citizen, regardless of the economic surface and the social position. For the Change Movement, this principle is unnegotiable. So we urge you to do the self-evident thing and support the ESS with works and not with words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u83	The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me to report quickly on the occasion of the events in Stavroup of Thessaloniki and the conversion of the PAAL into a festive criminal gang banner, with their murderous attacks. Faced with these facts, there is no reassurance. Isolation of every Nazi organization is achieved within the workplace, the neighborhoods, the youth spaces, so that this inhuman ideology does not find any room. Because the struggle to defeat the Nazi ideology and practice was not completed with the self-evident condemnation of the Golden Dawn in the courtrooms. In the face of the events, once again the unequivocal, dangerous, but also the official theory of the European Union of the two extremes, which is exploited by parts of the New Democracy and by government officials, has collapsed. The Communist Party of Greece and the CNN, as they should, give all their forces to fight fascism, knowing his abominable face, but knowing that fascism will irrevocably be beaten by the people with their struggle against the very capitalist system that gives him. In the bill, the development of public health services and their universal utilization by the people, in our view, cannot depend on charity, volunteering and individual supply. We believe that the State with its sole responsibility must fully ensure the respective services, the necessary structures, the full funding from the state budget, the provision of staff with permanent full-time and full-time staff, the adequate and modern medical equipment and these must be part of the universally-developed public health system, so that all preventive diagnostic and therapeutic operations can be provided in good time and without conditions. Because what workers produce in our country, and much more what they are prevented from producing because of capitalist property, are reaching and surpassing for the development of a public, modern, universal and free health system. Moreover, the money available to the institution for both the total contract and the specific one we are discussing today for the PET SCAN, as well as for all the sub-sections of the contract, is a very few of the huge profits resulting from the wild exploitation of workers, from the unpaid working time that generates profits. Today, like the previous government, exploited - and you make use of - such agreements and contracts, with a view to the deeper ideological impact of the people, of the workers, by stepping on the acute problems posed by your anti-grassroots policy, trying to cultivate the so-called human face of the exploitation system and, at the same time, reconciliation with the perception that as well as the profitability of business groups, there will be no more crumbs for the workers. At the same time, your aim is to accept from the workers the concept of social services and benefits, not as a right, but as charity. This is the case at the same time that under the responsibility of both the Government of New Democracy and the previous SYRIZA and all previous governments with the policies you have implemented and implement in favour of pluralism, in favour of business groups, you cut public health benefits, increase recompense and payments to health services, medicines, examinations, trade in public health, turning hospitals into businesses. So you all contribute and contribute to the right of patients, workers, the majority of the people in the necessary public health units to be presented as an offer by those who condemn the people to impoverishment. Because the situation in the public hospitals in the country, which strengthen their business activities, which reduce staff, which are underfunded by the State and are called upon to survive by selling the services directly to the patients or the state-paid insurance funds, gives answers, especially during the pandemic period and in the most tragic way. And you come with what is provided for in the bill and you are provokingly continuing the same unacceptable and dangerous policy in dealing with the pandemic. Because only a challenge, arrogance and mockery to the people are what is provided for in the bill, since the huge shortages of measures to protect the people are well kept, the unacceptable state of the dangerously secured public health sector, the almost non-existent public primary health care, the lack of effective information on vaccines and vaccinations, but also the contradictory locations and measures that leave the people exposed to pandemic and the treatment of all other needs of health care. And against this situation not only do you not do anything to deal with these problems, but you are also swinging the finger on the people and the workers to accept this policy. Otherwise, you are driving workers on a job suspension, a reduction in their wages and a reduction in their dismissal. And the cataclyst of anti-popular politics has no bottom. You have reached the point - and we have told you in committee - with a ministerial decision to ban disabled people - children and adults from attending, making use of, training in MEDA and CIDs. And it is no coincidence that you have opened the issue, for example, of compulsoryity. Your aim is to shift the debate, to strengthen social automation, to identify any criticism of government policy with extreme right, conspiracy, irrational and anti-invasive views and moves that are not spontaneous and which the government itself is putting forward, is tolerated, because they are a convenient opponent to it. You are relocating your own responsibilities to the people, turning the vaccine from need, right and weapon of science into a means of dividing workers and transactions, while, by extorting, attacking labour rights, you reach the point of invoking - not you, in the previous period - social justice to impose bans and penalties on the people, and it does not sound appropriate for the lack of pharmacovigilance and epidemiological surveillance. You claim that you have exhausted workers' information measures, which is a fat lie. Nearly nowhere has been given substantial information. On the contrary, with your recurring, contradictory positions and measures, you are reproducing fear, humiliation, reluctance, which is expected to exist in part of the population. And we are talking about people who do not belong to marginalisation, but who are exposed to the competitions of pharmaceutical groups, to the contradictory positions of certain scientists, depending on the particular interests that are attached and, of course, without effective state support. Here, then, is how the convenient, for the government, staged "invasive" is also fed by itself to obscure the governmental and state responsibilities of the rubber protocols, of the lousy public health system before and during the pandemic. A similar gift to health care professionals and many more, however, to the detriment of people's needs. Because what is provided for in the proposed articles of the draft law on the operation of public health units does not constitute exceptional measures due to the pandemic conditions, but is continuing to implement the long-term anti-popular health policy. Thus, the huge undermining of all public health and welfare units is dealt with - as with previous regulations in such bills, amendments - by the staffing industry of all branches and specialties from a unit. This has the effect of hating some health system holes and, at the same time, opening much more, since subscribing health units with long-term appointments for medical examinations, surgery, treatments, etc., is not treated with internal movements, which not only solve the problem, but are expanding it. Accordingly, in your regular practice, as before and during the pandemic, you are forecasting the recruitment of ancillary staff, of various contracts, etc., which adds nothing to staff, since those who are recruited for a certain period of time substantially replace the former staff made redundant with the termination of the contract. The measures provided for in the bill, but also in total the measures taken since the beginning of the pandemic, were implemented directly or indirectly before the pandemic and reflected - that they reflected - the policy of cuts in the public health system, the reduction of so-called 'working costs' by reducing staff, aid, respectively, subsidiary staff and reduction of permanent costs. Truth, and before the pandemic, with the policy of all governments, were not thousands of patients thinking to private health businessmen? And that was because all governments, without exception, had ensured that public health units could not respond even to relatively simple needs of the people in their medical care, hospitality, treatments etc. We therefore believe that the direction of measures, their content, must be assessed on the basis of whether they benefit the people's family, whether the progress of science, technology, the increase in productivity are being put into the service of people's needs with modern, exclusively public and free health and welfare services for all, without preconditions. Thus, ensuring early and general vaccination in the context of a modern state health system for all people's needs is also a need for the people's right and its security must be an obligation of the state. Thus, as the necessary vaccination does not replace the other measures to protect public health or, if we assume that these measures were taken, the need for vaccination is in no way unequivocally unequivocally unequivocally unequivocal. What is required and necessary today is the use of all safe vaccines, while utilizing the scientific advice of new medicines in conjunction with all other prevention measures, and given the need for a fully developed, solid and equipped public health system at all levels, particularly primary health care, of a system capable of dealing with both current and exceptional people's health needs. You were able to - but you did not - shield the public health system with massive recruitment of permanent staff, as the doctors said and claimed as a whole, the health care workers as a whole from the very first moment of the pandemic, but also before the pandemic, which is aware of the resistance of public hospitals, the inadequacy of primary health care. You continue to baptize the carpets and the recycling of staff. And this not by incompetence, as SYRIZA and other parties have accused you, but by a purely conscious choice, since strengthening the public health system is in direct contrast to your policy, the policy that all governments have served over time, namely, commercialisation, health privatisation, a policy that considers health protection to be a cost, a cost that threatens great capitalist profitability. Therefore, your measures have been in the past, present and above all prescribing the future, that is to say, the preparation of their general application within the framework of the so-called 'new RS' which the government has declared and proclaimed, a preparation in which all the previous governments have contributed, by putting each of their own ports in the anti-grass building. This means continuing and extending the operation of hospitals with private financial criteria based on the guidelines of the Quality Assurance Agency for Health, the IPPY, and the criteria for the costing of homogenous diagnostic categories, established by the Hospital Documentation and Costing Centre during the SYRIZA administration, which means that more and more of the operating costs - including in the future - of the ever less and cheaper staff of hospitals - should be covered by the sale of health services to patients - of the EEAS and insurance companies. In other words, it is the logic of public health establishments operating as self-financed enterprises which will exacerbate their diversification and determine their viability according to their revenues and their competition with other hospitals. And this strategic direction you accept and serve, you all serve, with New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA. So the positions and the proposals of the JRC do not compress to the strengths - as you all say - of the economy, of the capitalist economy. They conflict with the growth of the profits of the few, a handful of exploiters who are even in the conditions of the pandemic continue to treasure. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] We are in 2021 with the huge growth of science, technology, our country having numerous and scientific and labouring potentials that can satisfy the modern needs of our people. In order to do this, however, we need a different new social organisation, socialism with the people themselves taking the lead. A society with such organization of the production and services of the whole economy that its development will be determined on the sole basis not of profit but of modern folk needs in health, welfare, medicine, respectively in education, work, everywhere. Our proposals are both useful and necessary and essential both for today and for tomorrow. I shall conclude, Mr President. Health developments and not only confirm that the people have two paths of development in front of them, the road to satisfying their social needs and the current health situation as a commodity. And from the point of view of this controversy, the conquest of the health system which will serve the social needs and the ever-growing needs of our people will also be judged. Mr President, I need a few seconds. There are some amendments from the Ministry of Health. The articles of the Ministry of Health's amendment could have been incorporated into the bill, that is to say, the Minister. In the bill - which actually refers to amendments earlier - we could vote on the basis of our position in every article. In the two amendments tabled by the Ministry of Health - and not only to them but also to the other amendments tabled by the other Ministries - we should vote as a whole on the amendment, and we agree, for example, on some articles and some of the articles we disagree. And that acceptance of us or, anyway, our negative vote is not reflected. That is why, Mr President, we will have time to put in every article of each amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u85	Mrs Maria Athanasios will now be given the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. I will begin with my position in the fact that the Greek Solution condemns all the fascist, nazi cultures that we have been seeing lately. What is happening is extremely dangerous and we should be very careful. Today we are called upon to ratify a donation amendment to strengthen and upgrade hospital infrastructure at the same time as you have known the hospitals without insect material, without adequate health personnel, without doctors and nurses. And as if there were not enough staff shortages, you come with the job suspensions because of unvaccinated sanitary diseases to increase and exacerbate pathogens. Rescind the suspensions now, serve our hospitals. We have the recently inaugurated government SYRIZA and well-equipped Karpathos Hospital lacking in doctors. Dodecanese hemorrhages are served by the Rhodes Hospital. The worse the hemorrhage patients serving in the artificial kidney unit in Argostol hospital should seek dialysis units elsewhere, since the four of the eight nurses serving the kidney patients were suspended as invasive from 1-09-2021. Reflecting, inhuman, a reproach for modern Greece! Serres and Lemnos Hospitals cannot function safely without specialist anestheticists. Especially at Serres Hospital, the recent placement of anesthetologist did not limit the problem as a particular doctor was actually suspended uninvasive from 1-09-2021. Sustained hospitals in Drama, the Tower and much more throughout the Greek territory. You intended, as you said, to take measures to operate hospitals in tourist areas for the summer. Yes, sir. Of course you didn't even do that. We are not only interested in the tourist regions, but all of Greece, even the most distant, even the smallest island. We ask you: The needs of these sites are limited only to summer? Did you intend to provide the permanent population with health services if it was not a tourist area? The facts answer for themselves. You don't have to answer, Minister. Also, in non-purpose areas, what luck do you hold on to their permanent population? From your works you show that you are more interested in visitors than the Greek citizen. You're more interested in seeming than the substance. And while that happens, you prefer education as a solution, measures for emergency insulation and stabilisation of patients, so that they can be channelled to other hospitals in order to provide the necessary medical services with what this may mean for human lives and critically lost time. At best, the needs are covered by detachments of personnel, but they are suspended from regular surgery, so that the residents are constantly in a process either of non-service, of moving to other prefectures, or of using private clinics. The depreciation of public health structures and services continues despite the replacement of the Ministry of Health's political leadership. We as a Greek Solution have repeatedly drawn your attention to the submissiveness of the ESS, but you even despise to answer us. Details of the question under protocol number 1809/8-11-2019, 1497/21-10-2020, 1151/29-10-2020, where we refer to subordinated hospitals in the region you denounce. Unrestricted for a democratically elected party. Is that your view of parliamentaryism? Do you respond whenever you want and whenever you're interested? These are for the Minutes from our questions. I'm filing it. [[At this point, the Member, Maria Athanasios, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In the two years of the pandemic, we would like you to inform us, Minister, how many contracts of permanent medical and nursery staff you have made, at what stage is the implementation of these competitions, how many permanent doctors and nurses have been serving. You have announced the competition for the permanentization of the four thousand nurses. What will become of the remaining ancillary staff after the end of the contracts? Will they pass through the OAED after the end of their contract? Our doctors are working with the lowest monthly earnings in the European Union. If you really want Greece to keep her doctors and nursing staff, you should immediately change their payroll and put them in heavy and unhealthy. Same thing we tell you all the time. Furthermore, Minister, what about the disposition of monoclonal antibodies? We have been talking about this since last year, and instead of answering when you will be placing it on the Greek market, you are insisting on a vaccine which is now shown by the studies that it does not offer immunity for a long time. The battle against pandemic requires coordinated efforts, plans and determination, which the government has not shown to have to date. To date no draft law has been passed showing real intentions of strengthening primary health. In Part II of the draft law again mentions urgent provisions on the treatment of the coronary. We question the term 'urgent'. Almost two years later, this term is not allowed. Furthermore, Article 5 ‘Expands the award of services by EGE for the examination of samples to private providers’ abolishes your own account for alleged emergencies. Needs are no longer extraordinary. The original legislative act provided that the EGE could, until 31/12-2020, entrust private individuals with the direct examination of samples to private individuals - provision of health services - by concluding contracts with a derogation from existing national provisions, provided that there is a direct risk of the occurrence and distribution of the coronary. There is now neither an urgent risk, but there is also a regularity in the appearance and treatment of the virus, but also a sufficient experience of the experts. In addition, unlike the year 2020, there are ways of dealing with, as well as approved treatments through already five approved drugs in October 2021, as was officially registered by the Commission. Nevertheless, you insist that you consider the situation arbitrarily exceptional and choose to derogate from the provisions of the texts by entrusting individuals with something that the Greek State could well provide. Obviously your purpose is to speculate friends of interested private health professionals at the expense of taxes on Greek citizens. Colleagues, the articles of Part II of the legislation in question concern extensions, Article 2 in extension of IORP staff contracts, Article 3 in extension of EGE arrangements to address exceptional needs due to the coronary, Article 4 in prolongation of fixed-term private-law contracts for the maintenance and clean-up and maintenance of catering and feeding needs, Article 8 in prolongation of the availability of medical EGE personnel to specific infections. You turn doctors into nomads. This article is a protracted demonstration of the curiosity with which you are dealing with shortages of health personnel. Given the precarious situation, existing staff should be allocated and exploited in such a way as to cover all deficiencies in a safe and reliable manner. Subsequently, under Article 18 ‘Department of spaces and personnel for the fight against COVID -19’ and Article 19 ‘Department of spaces and personnel to combat the dispersion of the coronary’, on the one hand, you are making use of beds to combat the dispersion of the coronary and, on the other, you are committing personnel, so that the other services of hospitals are misused to patients. Truly, how many deaths of patients from their normal illnesses have occurred due to the unjustified and pointless inability of hospitals to provide self-evident services, which they have provided to the outbreak of the pandemic? How many more unfair deaths will arise from other causes, deaths due to your diligence and analgesia to the timely or exceptionally ill? In Article 20, ‘Preservation of hospital material’, as well as in Article 24 ‘Preservation of special equipment for the ICM and MMF and exceptional development of beds due to emergency public health needs’, we note that huge attention is needed to the availability and use of hospital equipment and of available beds, especially for patients who are not hospitalized with COVID-19 and who, as we have already shown, are neglected. Under no circumstances should any pandemic be left without logistical facilities clinics hosting non-COVID patients and having unjust deaths due to mismanagement of hospital equipment. You have all the time to organise the infrastructure, so that such exceptional measures are not needed. These provisions are anachronistic, they are not justified this year at all. This type of provision is not allowed to take such articles in legislation that almost two years after the pandemic began. Why would you have to resort to a checkup? Why are you spending so much time and so much ink on these matters, from when we have treatments and knowledge? In Article 23, entitled 'Summary of public contracts for the treatment of coronary waters', you are once again following the method of concluding contracts with private individuals by way of derogation from all the existing provisions on public procurement, as if we were in the presence of an emergency which could not be covered except in this way. The emergency is now a pretext to your lips. Your purpose is to delegate directly to individuals, without there being any need or reason, and that is what you prefer by sacrificing all the texts, of which in peacetime - I mean regularity - you clearly choose the derogation, resulting in opaqueness in the selection process, as well as in the costs involved. Finally, I am standing in Article 29 on the granting of temporary AMCA by other administrative structures of bodies of the General Government, as well as Article 31 on the subject of ‘Inoculate vulnerable social groups by civil society actors’. These articles clearly concern mainly illegal people present within the Greek territory. The Minister expressly assured that in no case will the vaccination of these people mean that they will not be legalised. We have no reason to question his words and commitments. However, it appeared from the operators' hearing at the second parliamentary sitting that only 2% of foreigners, who are free to move in the afternoons, are certainly vaccinated. We are sure that they do not receive any kind of protection against the virus, making the areas where health bombs are circulating. We would also like to know the amount of 2% on which basis is it, that is, what is all the people of illegal foreigners living in our country? You know - and you often inform us - how many cases, how many are the dead, how many are the vaccinated Greeks. So tell us, this 98% of unvaccinant aliens represents what number they are. We believe that the Minister has no clear picture of this and that is a major issue. In Article 32 ‘Confidentialities for the participation of citizens of third countries or stateless in the National Operational Plan against COVID -19’, the Government closes the eye to the stateless and migrants. How does the participation of these people in a project entitled 'national', even if it is the vaccination programme? And, respectively, what national plan does the government, like its predecessors, have to show to repatriate the six hundred thousand Greeks who have migrated the stone years of the crisis? What motives? What national motives do you give them to view their homeland as hospitable again and repatriate? Who will they find waiting for them? Illegal immigrants who travel on the streets or sleep in the parks? Or do you think that the population of Greece should be replaced with anyone who can afford to enter from its borders, whatever nationality, in any way? You realise that your policies, which are unholy and hostile to the Greeks and, on the contrary, completely hospitable and friendly to the immigrants, lead with mathematical accuracy to replace sooner or later the population of Greece with people who are not related to Greece nor have any intention, of course, to relate and adapt to its values and ideals. No, gentlemen, in no way should your indifference and your lack of strategic planning lead our Greece to extinction. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the government, we again started the same candy as there is an outbreak of cases and strict protocols have to be observed, while experts come out and say "we are not interested in parades and we are going to save Christmas". Then they'll tell us "let's go save Easter" and go say. While daily in Greece there are marches of protest by various rightful and sensitive citizens, without masks and without security distances, the established dosings will not be possible at the "Agios Dimitrios" of Thessaloniki and at the Metropolitans of Greece for the anniversary of the "OTI". If we manage to limit everything that concerns our national status and our Orthodox identity, all pandemics and all diseases will be reduced and they will all be happy. Shame and shame, but the elections are coming and the noise will be deaf! The Greek Solution votes 'no' at first. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u87	And we are closing the parties' representatives' suggestions with Mrs Maria Apatzides from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill is up-to-date the establishment of a donation contract between the public-benefited institution "Stavros Niarchos" and the Greek State, in order to strengthen and upgrade health infrastructure. The bill actually confirms and renews an existing agreement. As MERA25, we are well-known for being sceptical about similar bills. We are skeptical, because while it is, in principle, positive that some resources are provided as a donation to upgrade and strengthen the area of health, on the other hand, it is extremely negative that the government resorts to the logic of outsourcing, that is, outsourcing to a sector such as health, which is a constitutional obligation of the state. Outsourcing is a dangerous logic that we think we should not get used to. But it's a logic that we've seen since SYRIZA's time. After all, this contract with the institution "Stavros Niarchos" emerged for the first time in SYRIZA's day of governance. The actions undertaken by the institution ‘Stavros Niarchos’ are in principle provided for in Law 4564/2018 which was passed on SYRIZA days. This shows a basic follow-up between the two parties, namely the New Democracy and SYRIZA, who perpetuate a basically memorial logic of connecting health to the private sector. However, this logic is fully rooted in the present Government, since the basic principle is that of support for the private sector and public and private partnerships, even in the health sector, which concerns inappropriate goods. We need again, Minister, to remind you - and you are legal and very good to what I know - of Article 21 of the Constitution which stipulates that the State ensures that citizens' health and takes specific measures to protect the youth, old age, disability and the care of the most deprived? This principle, in this Chamber I am two years old, is totally inclined to forget it with the implementation of the Memorandumary Policies which have led to the State being minimized and, of course, to the present Government, which is ambitious to impose its neoliberal policies as a new normality. This means that the health of citizens from now on will no longer be a public asset, which the Constitution itself calls for. It's a case of private charity. We, as a PARTA25, consider that the need for their State to need private individuals, that is to say, private sector donations, is in no way normal. In this respect, however, the donations of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, which ultimately cost similar donations such as those of the Foundation, gradually mutates the public character of the National Health System. A characteristic example is the Komotini Hospital that has changed to a legal person under private law. After all, it is not possible to avoid permanent recruitment of staff, because even if overmodern machinery are donated, it also needs a staff who will handle them. This is particularly true of intensive treatment units, for which there should be similar intakes of intensive and other specialties. The main problem of the National Health System is subsistence, and that is where the state must assume its responsibilities. In Greece public health expenditure accounts for about 5% of GDP, one of the lowest in Europe at the moment. In addition, permanent recruitment is necessary, so that our hospitals are not single-thematically, that is to say, for COVID -19, which is a huge problem at the moment in the public health system. I mean, what's going on to be hospitalized if, like, you have another condition. We also need to make a wider observation as a MERA25. The rate of vaccination has been frozen, and indeed, at a level lower than the other European countries. This means that the strategy of the government, authoritarianism to use extortion, saying "do it" at any cost, instead of persuading the world to go to do this, like measures to compel vaccination to health, did not have the desired ending. As a result, the Government's decision to send seven thousand sanitary officers to availability and suspension of tasks did not have the results expected by the Government. Many of them even had health reasons not to be vaccinated, not ideology, which is a 10% of our country. But they were not given sufficient time by the government to produce some certificates on this matter. The government must finally understand that similar extortion policies lead to camps being enclosed and to a vicious cycle of self-justification by both the vaccinated and the invaders. But democratically speaking, it is only logical that it should be persuasive. In this regard, along with offering pre-invasive tests to the invasive people proposed by Mera25 - to go to consider, that is, a man before the vaccine is done, to know what this vaccine will suit him so that they can enjoy scientifically any suspicions that these vaccines have an adverse effect on their health - a democratic state is working with persuasiveness, especially the scientific one. You're a lot of doctors in the Chamber and you understand very well what I mean. But these gaps, created by the suspension of health work, in our opinion and in the opinion of the whole world, are incomplete. But the government is interested in unpaid gaps only if they are not police officers, as we have seen from Minister Skertsos' intervention, and not from public health. And here the government is making this judgment in the favourite expression of neoliberal authors. In this respect, it makes the health crisis an opportunity. The work of many health workers is suspended. For example, the over two hundred qualified nurses in Thessaloniki, who because of their removal have paralyzed inside the co-chair and go to lock down. In this way, the public health system is even more discredited and matured in passing into the transitional regime of PPPs, the mergers and then the privatizations that the Government of New Democracy loves so much. Because now, because of the gaps caused by the government, there is a possibility for the PPPs to be presented as a unique solution and for the respective attitude to be inspired by the people. In other words, according to self - astonishing prophecies, to which the government always resorts. It is, of course, clearer that, after the coronary pandemic, the health workers should be integrated into the heavy and unhealthy professions that we have said so many times. Health workers have been in over a year's service for over one year, without enjoying licences at the same time as all workers in the country and with wages that vary greatly from European data to the worst. That is why there must be not only a moral but also a material reward at last, with more permanent recruitment, which will alleviate the existing one. Because happy are less the society that has heroes, such as ours, health and more the one that doesn't have to have heroes, because it has a good organization for the benefit of the workers. However, we also need to focus on the most important part of the bill that is chapter d, with provisions to strengthen the vaccination programme and address relevant issues. We refer in particular to Article 29, which allows for the possibility of granting temporary AMCAs to persons without VAT or police identity card and from social services, community centres, immigration centres, OTA I grades, as well as from administrative structures of bodies of the general government, without the necessary personal representation of stakeholders. Also in Article 30 where the certificate of vaccination is issued by the above services plus pre-repeal centres and prisons. We are also referring to Article 31, which includes municipal hospitals, NGOs and civil society in the national vaccination programme. That is to say, with the possibility of covering part of their operating costs of participation in closures in the context of the vaccination of vulnerable social groups, which do not have access to these social goods. As well as Article 32, which expressly states that the performance of a temporary MMF is only used in the case of vaccination and issue of a vaccination or disease certificate. Furthermore, according to Article 32 refugees during the proceedings shall not be persecuted and expulsion and removal decisions are not carried out. As a PARTA25, we believe that the government is moving in the right direction with these provisions. Unfortunately, however, too late and probably for the wrong reasons. It is clear that these articles deal with the vaccination of immigrants and refugees. He thinks we are totally in agreement. However, this process should have started from the first time the vaccines were available in our country. I say it not only for humanitarian reasons, but also for reasons of common sense, since it makes no sense to leave any percentage of people living anyway in your country to be sick and transported to you. The government has not only been late to realize this, but we are not at all sure that, and now and now or just, I said it before, the Minister has assured me that this is not the case, we will, of course, see this - that there are some doses of vaccine left, since the vaccination of the citizens is clearly not progressing. The current policies of the Government on immigration, moreover, require us to be at the least sceptical about its intentions, because, as MEDIA25, we are largely opposed to the availability of a temporary MEDIA to refugees and immigrants, and we demand the performance of a normal number of insured persons so that they can enjoy health services fully. It's a matter of common sense, I think. The government, of course, is now offering the "cheese" of non-prosecuting during the process of vaccination and issue of a certificate. We, as a PARTA25, first of all have a structural difference with the government in the matter of expulsions, repropriations and persecutions of the oppressed people. Also, however, we do not understand the usefulness of vaccinating someone and sending him back healthy back to the place where he could take risks. Again, we question any humanitarian motive behind the government's moves, especially after the Ministry of Health assigned to a politician from the field of the half-man extreme right. This is what they see in Stavroup, and all these episodes are happening, and I don't know where this situation can reach. Article 31 is, in our view, quite problematic, as you do not say exactly what you mean when vaccination is given to civil society. How will it be ensured by whom is the excellence of the procedure? In addition, we are opposed to the transfer of State obligations to private individuals to non-governmental organisations etc., particularly since the services carried in this case are medical documents relating to personal data. What also needs to be noted is that, in this case, there is a campaign of persuasion, so that irregular immigrants and others belonging to similar vulnerable population groups can come and be vaccinated, which, of course, is very difficult by a New Democracy Government, which is investing in its extreme right-wing profile, mocking the worst racist reflexes that exist in the country and the choice of political persons for the government and the choice of political and tactical. Fortunately, it is understood - even lately - that the racist policies of the New Democracy in the first few years also involve health risks. Now, however, the government should gain the confidence of these population groups and come, be vaccinated and contribute in turn to the overall health of the population. As far as the last article in Chapter IV is concerned, the vaccination programme must obviously be extended. The previous prediction, however, which gave him power by the end of June, shows how far the particular gentlemen of the government are from reality, about how the vaccination programme should be moved, believing her own propaganda and self- admiration she always has, considering that the vaccination programme would have been completed by magic in such a short period of time, even after the old days and the contradictory policies of this period. If the government still does not believe in its own propaganda, then rather the'seeing and doing' is the real driver of government policy on such an important issue as the global health crisis. Whatever the case may be, this government is certainly dangerous to the health of the citizens, and for these reasons we are very sceptical about the bill, because it is putting in the wrong context certain things that need to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u89	We will proceed as follows. The Minister will speak - I say this so that Members of Parliament will also know - after hearing the position of colleagues. Before we go to the speakers' circle as a matter of priority - I mention them to be in the Chamber - they are the Members. Vessel, Paulakis, Frangidis and Asmakopoulou. Mr. Synthrakis won't be called, he'll be here later. The Minister has asked for the floor for five minutes to present the amendments to his amendments, so that those Members who are going to speak can take account of them. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u90	Indeed, my main speech will be made later and I will respond to what has been developed. I wanted, however, in particular for those colleagues who are following and have not been informed about the amendments, to develop the two amendments which we have tabled. In the committee we have referred to these amendments. Most articles concern extensions. I would like to refer to three specific issues which are of interest and I imagine there will be positions. First of all, there is the extension of contracts, which were an entire debate, of all subsidiary, medical, nursing and all other staff, until 31-3-2022. The second point I would like to make in the first amendment is the compensation of anestheticists. Anaesthetics may be moved to provide services to other departments of the ERC in other hospitals and shall be compensated daily to EUR 250 for each on-call. Similarly, we also allow private anaesthetics to provide services for the NSH for six months with newspapers, which will also be paid at EUR 250. I'm guessing you won't blame for privatising the ESS because we're giving private anesthetics the opportunity to provide services in the next six months. Because I heard all the arguments about privatization. Let me see if you will vote for it, which you have actually been blaming all those in the private sector for so long, and who are colleagues of those working in the ERC. Doctors and nurses also exist in the private sector, work and provide service, and these people too. You cannot insult them all the time when you mention that they have done nothing all this time and are sitting. Now in the next amendment we are bringing forward, I should like to refer to the issue of Article 7, with regard to monoclonal antibodies and early access. Here, then, because many urban myths have been heard, mention the following. The monoclonal antibodies are at experimental stage, not complete in all clinical trials. Since February 2021, our country has been regularly involved in all procedures so that, when the conditions allow it, it can introduce these monoclonal antibodies. In August 2021 there were the first complete third-stage studies reported in the section that there may be a therapeutic benefit. How, then, can monoclonal antibodies be introduced? Either through clinical trials or through early access. If these possibilities were actually applied, the company would have to pay the costs and there should be a procedure for whom to be given. So we come here and legislate, after the process has been completed, and since our country has been in the programme since February 2021. It will, however, provide for them after the studies were made and could be used and the third phase completed. Because before it was only at the stage of clinical trials, and now it is also at the stage of early access. We give the opportunity to the amendment, because companies would not pay these drugs as they pay for both clinical trials and early access, to pay the Greek public and, at the same time, the body that certifyes who can take these monoclonal antibodies on the basis of the indications. Some are actually trying to get the monoclonal antibodies to compete with vaccination. The treatment of pandemic is vaccination. Firstly, the monoclonal antibodies as a whole are still at the level of approval and experimental to complete all processes, and secondly, they are in very small production worldwide and in the programme in which we of the European Union are also involved, and concern very specific cases that are not the cases of someone in the ICM. So, whoever is currently referring to monoclonal antibodies as a counterweight to vaccination is, in fact, scientifically exposed because vaccination has completed all procedures, and prevents - what? - and the difficulty of illness, but with certainty the illness in a milder form, as all the elements we provide show, i.e. that 90% of the people in the ICUs are invasive, who have heard people and been expelled and not vaccinated, and only 10% are vaccinated. So that's the solution. From there on, we make use of any treatment that exists, but the use of this treatment will not be done whenever it is imagined on the basis of what it believes, but when the specific studies that can be given are completed. The first time, then, was in August, we have a study to complete the third phase, which shows that there is a therapeutic effect. But this is happening again with reasoned judgment. To conclude, Mr President, I really want to hear from all those who have been here from time to time and are referring to the monoclonals, which are the same ones who accuse the vaccines, that they are supposedly at an experimental stage. So they call for the state to give something that is at an experimental stage, such as monoclonals. And we'll give it to you. When? Now that we have specific reports and studies on third stage integration. These are the same people who are afraid to make the vaccine or do it after they are pressed, which has completed all procedures, are not in clinical investigations and are safe.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u91	Why are you confronting them?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u92	I'm not confronted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u93	Before I opened the list, he asked me for the floor, not to make his speech, but for two-three minutes the Parliamentary Representative of the JRC, Mr Karathanasopoulos. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President. As a JRC, we want to denounce what is happening in Thessaloniki over the last few days, in the most official way. The government should assume its responsibilities. What do we got? Golden Dawn raids and fascist organizations marching to Thessaloniki, occupying schools - from Stavroupolis went to Evrosmos, they went to the Vineyards, tried again in Stavroupolis - to convert schools into bulwarks of illegal, criminal acts, to terrorise students, to terrorize teachers, to interrupt the operation of schools, to terrorise parents. All this, which is happening, confirms that this is an organised plan for these organisations and groups. Such a project is based on a set of concrete mechanisms. So it is confirmed that the Ministry of Education's attitude to offset these groups' actions with the neo-liberal - and student movement - is unacceptable, because it is essentially tolerant of the action of these groups. It took no measure to protect the schools from their action. It covers their action at this level. This attitude of the Ministry of Education is dangerous. We are clearly saying that they are accomplices. The police have retrospectively gone on arresting mass, but here and now the government as a whole must ensure the smooth operation of the schools in the town complex of Thessaloniki. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] We say it clearly that these enthusiasms, criminal elements of Nazi and fascist organisations, are deeply laughed at, that they will be able to terrorize students, students and the people of Thessaloniki. The JRC will do everything in its power to ensure that the labour, folk and neo-liberal movement break the snug egg that is inclined by system mechanisms and circles, making up another criminal mechanism of the system itself. I repeat the call made by the JRC to the government to ensure that the schools operate smoothly in the Thessaloniki town complex, otherwise it will have deep and heavy responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u95	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u96	Good morning, good month. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr. Harris Theocharis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u97	I would also like to make a small contribution on the issues of Stavrou, which have been discussed by many and lately, of course, by the Parliamentary Representative of the JRC. The government - I say this to everyone and to the previous comments which have been made by Step - has action at the level of words and projects. The government through the Government Representative, Mr. Economou, condemned this violence and all sorts of violence wherever it came from.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u98	Mercy! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u99	The shame is yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u101	You must be ashamed of yourself! You're unacceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u102	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Barkas, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u104	Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u105	I won't allow you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u106	Please, Mr. Karathanasopou! Mr. Barka, will you still tell me I know only you? Mr. Theochari, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u107	This violence, fascist, is condemned, as is all the violence. The Government has also acted by means of acts. He mobilized justice by the Minister of Education's document. Prosecutors have been activated, the police have been activated with a presence to prevent incidents, but also investigations, arrests, provocations and seizures of weapons and other illegal materials. He'll keep doing it. But the motives have nothing to do with violence. In democracy violence is not tolerated, and that is what you must finally say. As long as you don't say it, you're accountable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u109	Yes, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, I will give you the floor, but let me say mine. You'll say from here what you want, they'll say from where they want, and the world will judge. Please, please, no cafeteria. Please don't get up again. You've done it many times. Don't say that, because I know only you. Yeah, you guys looking back. Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, the concept of condemning violence, from wherever it comes, actually creates a situation of tolerance for the action of these fascist groups and those criminal organisations. We say this clearly, violence comes from the state and its mechanisms, the mechanisms of repression against workers, pensioners, professionals and youth. It values the urban state such mechanisms as this to break the working people's movement. That is the essence of matters and events. All the rest is to love each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u112	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u113	That won't go on. I'll give you the floor, Mr. Theochari, here you go. Please don't interrupt him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u114	I am sorry, because you have an opportunity to condemn and help resolve the problems. Again, the government has acted and will continue to act in any such case. But when you tell us here, in Parliament, that the only real violence is the violence of the state, you are making arguments for all these groups, which are not part of the state, to think they can exert violence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u115	Mr Dionysios Vecchi (PPE). — (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the present government's overall effort to deal with and manage the pandemic crisis in our country, we have seen how important it is to help the public-private institutions to create the necessary infrastructure and to improve the overall quality of health services in our country. In fact, it is worth noting that the total donation from the public utilities is an initiative intended to give a new dynamic to public health, making it considerably stronger in order to cover a wide range of needs. Before I refer to today's bill, I should like to say a few words about Opposition and, in particular, the Civic Opposition. As much has been said by SYRIZA's colleagues about the overall, supposedly, failure of the government to deal with the coronary, and especially about the failure of the vaccination programme, it should be stressed that, as Europe's partners have agreed, the 'ELDRENERY' programme is a model programme which makes our country an example to be imitated internationally. Ladies and gentlemen, over the past one and a half years, this government has gone to more than double the IF beds in organising a model for a mass vaccination programme for the whole of the European Union, but also to strengthen the National Health System with thousands of young people. Because, from the standpoint of opposition, it sounds constantly and uninterruptedly the question about recruitment to the ESS, let us look at some of the elements mentioned in the committee. In February 2020 for medical staff, nine hundred and forty-three people were reported, in July 2020, eighty-two people. In September 2020, four hundred persons, two hundred of whom were destined to staff the IFs. In February 2021, nine hundred and thirty-nine people, in September 2021, five hundred and thirty-four. In total, two thousand eighty - eighty - eighty - eight permanent doctors were proclaimed and over two thousand positions were covered. A lot of them came out awkward. We should add the two thousands of twenty-nine subsidiary doctors to them. Therefore, we are talking about over four thousand so far to have entered the ESS either as subsidiary or as permanent. In your day, of course, you have not proclaimed almost anything and, as usual, 'you did not have a chance'. I must point out that these are the notices we made for nursing staff. At the moment we have taken 12 thousand as auxiliary staff and in addition, there are still two notices, which have been announced for four thousand people of nursing staff and nineteen for other staff. You will allow me here to refer to an obsession you, ladies and gentlemen, with the Hospital of Zakynthos. Perhaps this is the second or third time you've brought a question about the problems of Zakynthos Hospital. I believe that this is not the right place to stand up for opposition. I want to tell you that Zakynthos Hospital is what, in two years' time, has operated an intensive care facility, has changed all the equipment of the artificial kidney. In one, two months, there will be new colonoscopies, gastroscopes, new laparoscopic tools, after all these years that worked, a hundred and twenty-one staff, digital mastograph and a measurement of bone mass in digital format. Change hospital transformers, increase hospital funding. In 2018 they came to 4.050,000 euros and in 2020 we closed to 7.200,000 euros. I mean, we're talking about doubling around. You forget, of course, in June, it was important for you, because that was where the mobilizations started, because there were no exceptions and on-calls. This, of course, has stopped in the last two years because the funding is coming normally. We are talking about an energy upgrade of the hospital, which starts in the next few days and 300,000 euros for chemo drugs, which are done in Zakynthos and is not transported to Rio, Patras. Therefore, I think it is a bit pointless to keep up with Zakynthos Hospital. Something is happening, of course, with the local organization, as far as I understand it, it does not give you good information and you will always be exposed. As far as doctors who have resigned for a colleague who has resigned over the past few days are concerned, I would like to tell you that during your day twelve doctors have resigned. Here are the evidence which I have nowadays also resigned four. You had four, five doctors, and we put four, five doctors. That's the story. The question of doctors you know, there is a problem, but to blame a hospital as a whole for problems in the area, it is your fault and this will prove to be true. The local community understands that it's wrong and that's why it turns your back. As you would like to see, you are also ostriching and flying blind mud in the fan, the New Democracy Government reacts forcefully and responds effectively to the demands of a dynamic crisis, such as that of the coronary pandemic, while at the same time it fails to give immediate solutions and take substantial care of any other crucial issue in our country from foreign policy to natural disasters. But what to remember? That you were telling us not to fool people that the vaccine will come out? The vaccine's out. Then you went through two lines. One of your Chief, who said he's in favor of vaccines and another group, who said that the vaccine is at an experimental stage. We really must recognise you a great political strategy, since you have managed to be with everyone. But it doesn't surprise us, since you are the ones who made dozens of cuts in wages and pensions and in protests you were with the protesters. You were also with everyone in your favorite tactics. Then you said not to rely on vaccines, but to bring the monoclonal antibodies. Of course, it did not matter to you that it was highly experimental. After he went through phase three, we'll bring them in. Can we tell society that there is nothing wrong, that you take protective measures, that we have monoclonals? Because in Greece they account for about five thousand doses. Why? It is simply for the whole of Europe that there are two hundred and twenty-five thousand doses. Now so much can be produced. So you sacrificed it all on the altar of a dangerous public healthist opposition. As far as the amendments tabled are concerned, I should like to refer to two of them, such as the extension of ancillary staff until the end of March 2022 and the incentives given by the anaesthetics newspapers. In conclusion, it is now known and undeniable that the government has managed to significantly improve the level of medical services and ensure the best possible conditions for Greek citizens. In this effort, it was also remarkable to assist the public institutions. It is therefore important that we are discussing today a donation which will further enhance the quality of health services to Greek citizens. As Greeks, we have proved that we can make it and get the winners out of every crisis. So we continue the good work, always following the experts’ instructions and looking towards the future. Only then will we remain safe and be able to overcome all the adverse effects of the health crisis quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u117	Thank you too, Mr Apepi. Before giving the floor to Mr Polakis, I will give the floor to the Minister of Justice, Mr Tsiara, for his amendment of a general number 1087 and a special 159. Good month, Minister, here you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Good month to both ladies and gentlemen. It concerns the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Justice, of course, with a view to the proper functioning of the courts and the avoidance of many individuals, in particular lawyers and judges, in enclosed premises, of course, in view of all those living with the pandemic. As far as the civil courts are concerned, and for the period from 1 October 2021 to 31 December 2021, the following is foreseen: first, the time-limit for all cases recorded in the board or exhibit, with a view to avoiding co-existence. Secondly, the possibility of making a statement to the Court’s secretariat by e-mail that all the parties do not wish to consider during the examination in order to discuss their case at the beginning of the table or exhibit and, thirdly, the possibility of taking an oath before a lawyer. You realise that these are matters which are also provided for in the changes to the Code of Civil Procedure, but at the moment we had to legislate essentially in view of the resumption of the whole functioning of justice, and that is why we are coming with an amendment to propose these provisions before the national delegation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u119	Thank you too, Minister. Mr Paul Paulakis is now called to Stepma by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President. Have a good month, though I don't see it. Mr Ploiros, you have been very exposed to your previous position in defending the amendment, which you tabled for monoclonals. I yelled at you underneath and I will now prove it to you as well as to Mr. Akuppi. Mr President, I would like to ask for a little tolerance in time, because I would like to refer to the issue of cyclotronicles and because today's debate also concerns an issue that I have fought for for about a year. Contrary to what many would have expected, I will not speak re-insurance or personal justice, because it is the last thing I care about in relation to the good of the patients. That's how I've learned to practice medicine. As I have repeatedly said, the truth is always justified at the end, which has made me suffer for over a year a "lever" of my personality through daily organised and coordinated targeting and slandering, reaping me as a supposedly anti-vaccinant, shredded, unscientific and undermining the country's vaccination programme. Already at the end of November 2020, with repeated postings on my social media page and since December 8 and in every speech in the House, but also in every public position, I was calling and begging for the prior political leadership of the Ministry of Health to bring here the treatments with monoclonal antibodies in order to save human lives. Last year I said something that Alexis Tsipras from the Delphi Forum has asked for. I therefore said that, alongside vaccines, it should be given early in the course of the disease, up to the seventh or eighth day of the start of symptoms, treatment with monoclonal antibodies to those who have the prerequisites, indications to be severely ill or even to end up with a coronary, that is to say, older people, with chronic diseases or under immunosuppression. Nor has the Government of Mr Mitsotakis and the Ministers answered or provided the slightest explanation, because it has not brought this treatment, which, as I have said, is the ready-to-do bullets in the war against the coronary, while vaccines are the fortification works. We've had war, and we need bullets and bullets. Every time I asked Mr. Kontozamanis this question was like answering me the 20-year-old president of the Edessian, as his escapades were of the type: "Yes, we will bring them, when we bring them, but until we bring them, we do not bring them." So listen to me to understand, Mr Ploiros, the crime committed with evidence, because I am always talking with evidence and provoking you and Mr Tygepi and Mr Blouchos, who are fellow doctors, to answer specifically. From 1 January 2021 to 30 September 2021 all of these elements of the EGE have been recorded in our country - all of them - five hundred sixteen thousand three hundred twenty-three cases, of which fifty-nine thousand four hundred twenty-seven people over sixty-five years. In other words, the cases in this age group are 8.7% of the total cases recorded in our country from 1 January to 30 September 2021. At the same time, a total of nine thousand nine hundred eighty - three deaths have been recorded since 1st January. In total, we are at fourteen thousand eight hundred thirty right now. From 1 January to yesterday we had nine thousand nine hundred eighty - three deaths, eight thousand two hundred and twenty - seven of them for over sixty - five years. In other words, this population group, which is 8.7% of cases, gave 82.5% of deaths. Do you understand? I can't paint it any more. This is precisely the group, which should help with the monoclonal antibodies, because we knew - because we did not forget medicine, ladies and gentlemen, and Chiodra will not teach us - that the more age increases - much more coexist and disease - the less the immune response to the vaccine is. Right? Isn't that proving now? In other words, even if the elderly are vaccinated, they still have the risk of severe illness or death, especially those suffering from certain diseases. That is why, if you remember from the outset I said that all over sixty and those belonging to vulnerable groups from younger ages should be vaccinated. That is why the third dose of the vaccine is given only to these groups. You proved it from the result of what I was yelling at the time. But what about people over sixty-five years old who either were not vaccinated or vaccinated and did not cover them? Clear words: The government left them dead and I'll prove it now. Listen now why you lied before. If the government had brought about twenty thousand doses of monoclonal antibodies from the beginning of the year, that is to say, about a thousand five hundred and two thousand doses a month and gave them to those patients I said before, namely the fifty-nine-four thousand four hundred twenty-seven, in this group over sixty-five five, who, according to their history and diagnosis of their doctors, had increased chances of getting sick, it is certain that we would have saved at least six thousand of our people on the basis of the results which both in the early studies and in the final studies demonstrate the effectiveness of the monoclonal antibodies. In other words, six thousand deaths would have been saved from Genarus from the eight thousand two hundred twenty - seven to this day. Tell me what you want, but I couldn't accept it or I'm not going to forgive the Mitsotakis Government and the committees it appointed to manage the pandemic. The same "why" haunts the people who lost theirs. For my remarkable system and my route to medical science, even one of our fellow men was saved, the profit would be priceless, how much more than six thousand. So why didn't the government bring them? Now say what happens in a number of other countries, and here are all the elements. Did they not know the benefits of this treatment because they are completely incapable and useless? We were, in other words, more informed and more perceptive than the'strategist' of the so-called state of staff and of the dozens of experts placed in the various committees? I could accept this explanation until November 2020, given the first urgent approval to ‘ELI LILLY’ by the FDA for the treatment against coronary for the Bamlanivimab monoclonal antibody and on 21-11-2020 was given to the combination of ‘REGENERON’. Since then, however, hundreds of studies have been published in scientific magazines and thousands of articles in the international press that thoroughly analyse and quantify the benefits of these treatments. They provide protection of 70% to 75% from severe illness and death. There is no way that the committee's own colleagues have not read this. No way they didn't know. We are now going to the specifics and here are all the facts, Mr Pleis, and I shall present them for the Minutes at the end. On December 23, then, the EOF of Hungary licensed monoclonal antibodies. In mid-Germany, Germany ordered and took - leave these cultures - two thousand doses. Immediately they did the same - here are the elements - at least eight countries of the European Union, France, Italy, the Czech Republic, Sweden, Romania, Belgium, Slovakia, Slovenia, and Switzerland, which are outside the European Union. Thousands of doses. Where were they found? On 26 February, Coreper gave its approval - a recommendation for the treatment of the combination of "REGENERON" and on 5 March he did the same for the treatment of "ELI LILLY", which the antibody then caught both A and B variants. And if they didn't know, I would call them. They should have heard something. Now we're going to a next question. Wasn't the twenty thousand doses available that we would need? It's a ridiculous argument, really ridiculous, which exposes those who invoke it. This is where little Slovakia found and took fifteen instalments, wouldn't we be able to find twenty thousand? Moreover, "ELI LILLY" had sent a letter in December to the Ministry of Health, informing us that she could have us on a monthly basis about a thousand doses and we never responded. Finally, we could also take as many doses as we needed from the European Union's 'Clinical Trials Register'. Was the financial cost of buying the twenty-thousand-dollar monoclonals was forbidden? Once again a disgrace to those who dare to make such an argument. Germany provided the monoclonals at EUR 2,000 per dose and Slovakia at EUR 860 per dose. How much does it cost, Mr. Ploliers, the treatment that almost all patients are treated with antiviral remdecvir? It's up to 25% to 30%, and we're good to give it up. Is the five-day EUR 2.100 costing you 860 euros of monoclonals? We and EUR 2 000 to take them, would spend EUR 40 million in ten months. This government, which has eaten more than EUR 2 billion directly, has given a concessionaire of the national roads, the airline owners, at airports of over EUR 500 million, tossed SMEs over EUR 150 million, gives private clinics EUR 30 million and EUR 40 million every six months for the hospitalisation of non-COVID incidents and other not a number and dares to say that they are many.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Polakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u122	I shall conclude, Mr President. In the end, the government did not bring them in because it wanted to foretell the vaccines, making them the only solution for the pandemic? Probably, but they will never admit it and admit it, as this would reveal, not only cynicism, analgesia and their hindrances - the more deaths, the greater the fear of citizens and therefore the pressure to be vaccinated - but also the failure of the government in general to support the vaccination programme in persuasive and not the coercive and social division that it follows to date. Equally possible explanation, and in conjunction with the previous one, is the Government's ideological obsession to avoid in any way strengthening the public health system.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Polakis, you're putting me in a very difficult position.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u124	I'm done. Please, this is a matter we've been talking about for a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u125	I left you four minutes longer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u126	Give me a minute. In order to make effective the use of monoclonal antibodies, as much as possible, participation, activation and assistance of primary health through the institution of the family doctor and TOMY, as well as improving hospital services by recruiting permanently qualified health personnel is required. And that's why the doctor who's watching and knows the patient's history should be informed within seven days of who they've got the indication to do this treatment. As in all other things, the Mitsotakis Government blames the citizen itself for declaring all its own responsibility, saying "you have the vaccines, whoever is severely ill or dies his own problem", even if he has been vaccinated. A word, to close my speech. I've got the evidence here. I don't have time to develop them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u127	Close your speech before I close the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u128	These figures show that Sweden, Mr Ploris, which we have overcome in number of deaths, has four hundred and twenty deaths so far. Switzerland, from 15 May to today, has four hundred forty-nine deaths. Portugal has nine hundred and fifty-six deaths between 15 May and today. The Czech Republic has three hundred and fifty six deaths since May 15th. How many do we have? We have three and a half thousand. What did these countries have? The treatment with monoclonals and some and ivermectin, which have been massively given and which are fortunately given here. One last word. Mr. Pulari, how falsified is the story you're talking about on the subject of cyclotronies? You removed them from Niarchus' donation to support the "BIOKOSMO" of Lavrio, which for four, five years we managed and only reduced the price, because it was a monopoly and after the negotiation when we started putting cyclotrons down to 350 and now I'm learning below. Why have you not put in front of Metaxas cyclotronium and the cyclotronium of the Saints Anargyns, which had been purchased from the money of the District of Attica on the rule of Duros, which have been placed in both hospitals for a year and a half and do not currently produce medicine? So much are you committed to buying them from there?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Polakis, you've taken twice as much time. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u130	You're right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u131	I'm right, but where to find it:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u132	Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, too. Thank you for your respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u134	These are the evidence. I challenge any colleague who can oppose this evidence to do so. I'll listen to him with care. Your mind came to your head. Unfortunately, it came too late. We mourned over seven, eight thousand dead that we could have avoided. Bring them quickly, so we don't mourn others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u135	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u136	In what has been heard, first of all I expect to see the letter 'LILLY' tabled and see how Mr Paulis knows the letter 'LILLY'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Contozamanis has it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u138	Please. He didn't interrupt you, Mr. Polakis. Please! We ask for democracy outside and do not apply it here. Please! Once I got up, it didn't work out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u139	I have heard Mr Polakis refer to a pharmaceutical letter. Let Mr. Paulakis present the letter. So now let's go to the data you're referring to. Do you know that what was approved by the FDA in November was withdrawn by the FDA in April?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u140	You're a liar again!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u141	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Polakis, please. You were fourteen minutes up, are you on vacation?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u143	He's lying, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u144	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u145	You'll hear them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u146	I can't stop because I'm right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u147	Please! You're both going out!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u148	Take it easy, don't get a stroke.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u149	From the beginning, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u150	Greece participated together with the European Union in the common market for monoclonal antibodies.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u151	The others were getting...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Paulakis doesn't want to hear. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u153	Mr. Polakis, you're right too, and he says he's right. What can we do? Because we're right, are we all standing up?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u154	Now we're going to the data. It participated in the common market and this common market had studies. You referred to "LILLY" and I tell you that what was approved in November was revoked in April and was asked to go along with another in order to have a therapeutic effect.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u155	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u156	You know that. So you watch what you asked for.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u157	Until then, he took the “alpha” and the “beet”. The delta didn't work.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u158	So Mr. Paulakis here, who spoke about her letter 'LILLY', did not tell you that if we then took it with the approval that was in existence, it would have been revoked in April and we would have given it to people. That's not what Mr. Paulis says.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u159	You would have saved three thousand people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Polakis, please don't interfere.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u161	Did you see? He said he wants arguments, but he's interrupting. That's what he knows. So what did Greece do and did so very well together with the European Union? Because he was here - you heard him - calling you for a letter from the pharmaceutical industry, which he accidentally knows and perhaps Mr Paulakis has it, I do not know how. It does not, however, tell you that this has been approved and was then revoked. He said he should go with another. We're in this agreement, Mr. Polakis. He just came in April and said there's got to be a combination. We are in this combination, and we are signing the convention, and we are talking about 'REGENERON', which you are saying. We've been since February. So what is the serious state, which we have to say by looking at the world? Apart from the fact that what you're saying is not correct, because you're talking about numbers that don't exist. There's no staff. This is where I speak on the basis of your arguments. These numbers and 'REGENERON' are for two thousand, to learn. Sixty-five thousand are for the European Union. These are the agreements of the European Union. But you come here to say things. When do we come and say what we've been talking about since the first time? When we are in the clinical phase that we now have the studies in August, which is expected again, there may be serious side effects, of course, because all these phases are not yet complete and we are making the mechanism work out at the right time. If you were then that instead of sending Facebook and saying "I wait for the mutations in September" you were coming out seriously in this world and told him to be vaccinated, we would have another effect. Therefore, your populism with the monoclonals will end. The country followed exactly what the European Union did. We have just had the necessary studies to ensure that we have the best possible safety for our citizens to the Greeks, we give it to the Greeks. All I have to say is 'good immunity', because I think you have now done the second dose.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u162	On staff, Mr President, I would like the floor
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u163	There's no staff. He didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u164	He said about the letter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u165	You were Minister. Of course, you will. Mr. Frankides of the Change Movement has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today contains the amendment of the Niarchos Foundation's donation to work VI and many provisions relating to pandemic, mainly extensions of provisions. With regard to the Niarchos Foundation, it is well known to all its time-consuming offer to the Greek public and Greek society. In the difficult years of the economic and health crisis, donations contributing to the improvement of the quality of life and health of citizens gain added value, because they do not just add more to a prosperous system, but help to fill gaps, which are left to insufficient public spending. For its part, the Government must prioritise the needs and integrate donations into a more general planning to obtain the greatest possible benefit for the direct recipient which is the State and the final recipient society. Unfortunately, the government has not shown such a work. Instead, despite our constant proposals, it has not put in place a mechanism for the use of donations based on proper assessment of needs, sound and efficient management and transparency. Such a mechanism would not account for more reliablely the government's decision to amend in the way Project VI of donation is amended with any economic implications. During the pandemic, many donations have been made to the health system, but we are ignored. We certainly know that there has been medical equipment, which has been left in warehouses, due to a lack of personnel to handle or a lack of a plan to manage it. The bill also contains numerous extensions of provisions relating to pandemic. In addition to the needs of the pandemic, the way you legislate, Minister, with extensions, fragmentation and numerous amendments, reveals the absence of a specific philosophy for the neural health sector, where you want to go to health, what the plan is and what your vision is. On the pandemic's surface, you stay on the extensions, the derogation and opacity. You are applying the nothing more permanent than the temporary. We're in the second year of the pandemic and the coronary may become endemic. How long are you going to invoke the coroner? Don't you think it's time to legislate more seriously and complete for health? The National Health System, unlike the private sector that participated selectively in the treatment of pandemic, has demonstrated its constant value in lame times. You must strengthen it and there is no excuse. I would like to refer to my county here, Minister. You know that the Kilkis Hospital has two hundred and fifteen beds, half of which are surgical, which is involved in dealing with the pandemic it has today, the law in lockdown - three parts of a coronary - is the only hospital on the 4th RC, which has no intensive treatment unit. We drink, we drink, we make promises, but in fact we don't. And today, three coronary patients are working there. In medical staff, we have huge shortages and massive departures. The doctors' Brain Drain combined with retirements erase a pitiful future if they do not become permanent recruitments. The gaps are already huge, of course very intense in northern Greece. I take as an example the anaesthetics, a neuroalgic specificity, whose lack of it can paralyse an entire hospital. You are applying the torture of the drop, holding the hostages, since you do not legalize them. The extension of their term for a five-year period would provide them with a degree of security to continue working and planning their lives in elementary terms. Doctors, backbone of the ESS throughout the pandemic are working with self-depression, exhausting hours and hazard. They need recognition, reward and motivation. Incorporate them into the heavy and unhealthy, like all the first-line workers, finally upgrade them payroll. Take care of the dutyfree and rationalization of their newspapers. The disorganization of primary health care proved to be paradoxical in pandemic. You have not organised it, you have not strengthened it, you have not chosen it to the extent and the time that it should be taken to deal with the coronary. It could be used in information, prevention and vaccination, as well as in local self-government that you have recalled. So we would have informed citizens in good time and not skeptical and misinformed on the Internet. The vaccination programme would have gone better and we would have been closer to the immunity wall. You have also delayed the church, and the mobile units of the EGE do not see that they are active in vaccination. With so many inconveniences and negligents, the information campaign cannot be described as a success. Actually, it was... it was... it was... it was... it was... it was... it was... it was... it was... it was... it It would have been better if the world had been informed through family doctors, pharmacists, generally specialists, who traditionally trust. Very late, and after pressure from our own and generally counter-population, incorporate irregular immigrants into the vaccination programme. But you did not do so when the fear of expulsion was absent, when the restrictions were in place because of a pandemic. You now need to find ways to convince them that they will not be deported and approached through appropriate structures. There are areas and populations, such as Roma, with low vaccination coverage. And that, of course, is unjustified. In conclusion, the government in this draft law still does not give up on the logic of management. The health system's diseases and problems are not solved by temporary measures and emblematic solutions. It needs a mapping of needs and long-term planning, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u167	Mrs Sofia - Iido Asmakopoulou has the floor from the Greek Solution. Get Mr. Lippes ready from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the protection and improvement of public health, so that citizens have equal access to modern and effective health care, is indeed of major importance. Public health in Greece, however, has structural deficits and is severely affected. Producing and sustainable health cooperation, by exploiting know-how, is crucial. Once again, we are discussing the contracts between Stavros Niarchos Foundation and the Greek State, in particular as regards strengthening and upgrading infrastructure in the health sector. First of all, you have an amending agreement on the supply and installation of medical equipment at the Hospitals of Heraklion, Larissa, Alexandroupolis and Ioannina. This is to be done by means of the institution's exclusive financing. Without objection, this is a contribution, as in Greece the health system presents significant problems of inadequacy. This is a contribution, however, on conditionality, because if the budget originally planned is to be exceeded, then this expenditure must be borne by the public. Greek hospitals face huge problems for decades, problems calling for immediate solutions rather than patches. Many old machines are still being used, in many cases, and the most recent ones are not being maintained as they should. There's need for recruitment, staffing, dignity in patient care. Global health coverage and the provision of its quality services should be a direct priority. Anonymous reason why an anonymous special-purpose company will be used by the Foundation under the name of the 'Health Initiative' in order to implement the project is unknown. It is supposed that the State - in particular the rule of law - takes care of measures to protect health. It is supposed to intervene with positive action and provide services and goods to protect the right to health, that is to say, both for the prevention and repression or treatment of any situation against the protection of health as a legitimate good. It is supposed to create appropriate infrastructure for the provision of high-level medical care services, which are appropriate to the condition of the patient. An integrated health system does not fulfil its obligations towards citizens only through the provision of services simply and typically. It must pursue the continuous improvement of these services. The sanitaries gave during the pandemic - and of course still give - their souls literally. You talk about heroes, while you are not even concerned with the real needs of the health system. It is unacceptable to provide health services to Greek citizens within the ESS after many obstacles. The deficit in materials and machinery is also added to the staff deficit. Significant shortages in materials, machinery and staff lead, in fact, hospitals to a residual function. How can you believe that without the required staffing and shielding our hospitals have a future? The great departure of young doctors abroad, the very difficult working conditions of the ESS with overnumbered on-calls and low pay and the absence of attractive job opportunities to choose the skills of the anesthesiologist, for example, are the reasons why anesthesiologists are a species for extinction in the public health system. A characteristic and recent example is the "Metaxas" Hospital, in which surgery is cancelled and only emergency cases are served, due to the lack of anesthetics, as we will testify in the Minutes. Of the twelve anaesthetics there were only four left, and of the six surgical tables, only one operates. According to the director of the "Metaxas" Hospital's medical service, the problem was presented after Easter, as some anaesthetics moved to the islands to meet the needs, thus giving up five of the twelve anaesthetics. Finally, because of the appointment of two anaesthetics to other hospitals and because of one more sick leave, they have now reached this point. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Sophia - Haido Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We also see in this bill a number of extensions, which proves that there is no concrete and structured planning. Seeing and doing. We see an extension of contracts of private fixed-term law at the Ministry of Health's central office, an extension of fixed-term work contracts by doctors, an extension of the EGE's fixed-term work contracts for the maintenance and cleaning of the building of liability, as well as the needs of focusing and feeding up to 31/12-2021, we see even an extension of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs cleanliness contracts. Obviously, you have confused the word'resolution' with the word 'expansion'. The state must create such conditions that its citizens are as healthy as possible. Access to quality health care is a key issue. Obstacles and restrictions on access to health services are a phenomenon linked to social inequalities in health. In conclusion, we would like to emphasise once again that the Greek state must finally give incentives, through the production of wealth and the creation of new jobs, to all those Greeks and Greek women who are abroad, to all of those six hundred thousand young people to return back to our country. The right to health is fundamental. It is, in fact, an integral part of social, economic and sustainable development. It's everyone's business, and it's primarily investment. We in the Greek Solution say it clearly: Unauthorized, the health space is treated with carelessness and haste. There are no skeletons in the health of the Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Asmakopoulou. Athanasios Lippi has the floor from the New Democracy. Mr. Konstantinos Markopoulos will then be prepared by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and I will immediately give the floor to the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr. Villardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate concerns the draft law of the Ministry of Health, which introduces many necessary provisions. The first part of the bill includes the modification of the donation contract between the Stavros Niarchos Foundation and the Greek State. The "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation is a stable supporter of the National Health System. The pandemic brought additional pressure on public health structures and created increased equipment and facilities. The Foundation has been consistently responding to these needs throughout this period, supporting national efforts. It recommends one of the best examples of continuous and constructive public-private cooperation. On the basis of the signed agreement, the supply and installation of PET CT medical equipment for Heraklion, Ioannina, Larissa and Alexandroupolis hospitals was decided. This is a very necessary equipment which is missing, especially from the Greek region. It helps much more accurately diagnosed, monitoring and decisive roles in selecting appropriate treatment to thousands of cancer patients. So far this possibility has existed only in the centre, resulting in the great suffering and heavy financial burden of thousands of our fellow citizens with cancer. In the second year, therefore, it was considered that the procedures will be long delayed by the Greek government's making the necessary technical studies and preparatory processes. With today's amendment the Stavros Niarchos Foundation again comes to help, covering the cost of the studies, provided that the Greek State takes over the maintenance of the special equipment. The second part of the bill contains provisions relating to meeting the needs arising from the pandemic. The overall measures taken by the Government in the past year and a half have helped the ERC to meet the requirements, but especially thanks to the self-determination shown by all medical nurses and administrative staff in public hospitals. Today, after the extensive vaccination campaign that is now taking place and to the adolescents, we believe we will have a better winter. However, the pandemic is still here and therefore there is still need for emergency measures to support public health. In this context, many contracts and procedures are being extended by the end of the year, such as, for example, the dispatch of medicinal products to patients and vulnerable groups who are restricted, fixed-term contracts for doctors who have been placed and are to be placed. Very important is the extension of health coverage for uninsured and vulnerable social groups in need of hospitality. The same need is for the extension of the inclusion of insurers and insurers with chronic end-stage renal insufficiency in EVO-accompanied dialysis units. The provisions aimed at strengthening the vaccination programme are of particular importance. Emphasis is placed on solving the problems encountered mainly in relation to third-country nationals and stateless persons. For vaccination it is prerequisite for the citizen to have AMCAs. The temporary AMCA procedure is now being facilitated, since the JEPs and social services are now available to the community centres, to the Immigration Centres of the Municipalities without the applicant having to appear in person. In the same way, multiple options are given in the way one can issue his digital certificate of vaccination, a provision particularly useful to those who have no knowledge or access to technology. This allows third-country nationals to issue their certificates to the Immigration Centres for the Integration of the Municipalities, the Host and Identity Services, the Pre-Accession Centers and the detention stores. Easier access to vaccination is guaranteed for vulnerable social groups such as immigrants and homeless people. In order for these social groups to feel more secure, they are qualified to be vaccinated in municipal hospitals and non-governmental organisations. At the same time, Amendment No 1092 introduces the use of monoclonal antibodies to prevent severe coronary disease. The monoclonal antibodies have not yet been approved by Coreper, but the Scientific Opinion of the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use of Coreper, the European Medicines Agency, has been adopted. Well, at this point because he was also mentioned to us, I want to say to the former Deputy Minister of Health and welcome him to scientific logic, but he said a long time ago, but what he says to us today. The vaccine is indeed intended for prevention. The monoclonal antibodies are treatment with other treatments. It seems effective, they may reduce nursing, severe illness, may also reduce deaths. But they're not prevented. As far as the others are concerned, the Minister answered them. For monoclonal antibodies, therefore, different opinions have been expressed, they have been vindicated and underestimated. The truth is somewhere in the middle. It's not panacea. It's not the medicine that surely saves us from the effects of the coronary. Vaccination is the only powerful weapon available from the scientific community against viruses. Amendment No 1093 extends until the end of March 1922 all the active contracts of ancillary staff in the medical, nursing and other staff sectors of hospitals and primary health care structures. This ancillary staff meets very important needs that have increased in the midst of the pandemic. At the same time as the same amendment reinforces anesthetics who move to other hospitals and receive additional pay for a daily journey and the sum of EUR 250 per day on a 24-hour basis. A necessary effort is made to address the problem of the lack of anaesthetics that delay many surgery or that frame intensive treatment units. Here, Minister, I would like to stress that barren specialties are not only anesthetics, but also intensive scientists and TDI doctors and others. Between the causes and the departure of many doctors abroad. So the debate on a new sanitary wage, on heavy and unhealthy, should be opened, but also a redefinition of barren sanitary areas should be made not only on the basis of the geographical pattern but also on the basis of the possibility of these positions being filled. In Sporades, for example, in Magnesia, who are not barren, in the Alonissos has not been a permanent doctor in the last ten years. We must therefore give further incentives to finance, but also to the institutions. Overall, today's bill makes necessary contributions to the National Health System, meets the needs that have arisen because of the pandemic and at the same time strengthens the vaccination process by targeting groups of people, such as non-legal immigrants who have so far little vaccination coverage. Another grid of arrangements to ensure the smooth functioning of the National Health System and to provide incentives for vaccination coverage as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u171	Thank you too, Mr Lippe. Mr Marcos has the floor from SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u172	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to add, after the closing of the speech by the chosen colleague, to increase the wages paid to doctors and to integrate them into heavy and unhealthy, welcome to them and let them be late. I hope that the President, Mr. Tsipras, convinced you of his speech in Thessaloniki and I am pleased about that. So we come to talk about the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. Obviously these donations are welcome, they are useful. Micropsy doesn't let you report every time that these sponsorships started in SYRIZA government and were due to the high credibility that the Ministry of Health had at the time, and that's why they're continuing, but the result counts. At the same time in this bill, gentlemen of the government, you are still going to extend the contracts for a five-month period. And could anyone ask what happens after five months? I will foresee that you will renew them again and that perhaps from the coronary we will not have escaped, but you will also start customer practices ahead of elections. The point is to give a definitive solution. Do you know anything else? I'd like to fill in something. These EGE mobile units, which run and cover a significant proportion of the needs at this stage, why do you not decide to include them in the primary health care to which you have not taken a single step so as to support it and then follow the course of the rest of the contractors? Tie it up. I shall mention, Mr Minister, a case of a colleague, you know her well, just to draw the critical political conclusions. This is the Vice-President of the EHR, whose President, Mr Patulis, is disciplinaryly persecuting him, because in his duties he has punished prosperous doctors for excessive prescribing and for which case you have said that I am unresponsible. Take note of the political conclusions, because this is a poor story. First political conclusion. You refuse to intervene in your political consortium, Mr. Patulis. Mr. Patoulis, who has no competence, is disciplinaryly punishing a public official who has done his duty. He's giving the message, in other words, that anyone who can be outlawed, if anyone's got a Patolis, can slip. Mr. Patoulis to convey this message at the same time deals with something that has no competence, because Mr. Georgakopoulos is a doctor, a member of the Patras Medical Association. This is a ridiculous invention. So we see a political immorality that you have now embraced. The conclusions of our fellow citizens are self-evident. Let's go further. The hospitals are sinking - and I have also asked you a question - are sinking the hospitals in western Greece. The most recent colleague from Zakynthos, who is not here, has told us that we have the wrong information at best. I am therefore speaking specifically for this reason and say that this is not a sink. The Zakynthos Hospital of sixty-four specialists has just thirty-five. Of twenty-five qualified persons, it has only three. He has an assistant, and we handed over eight. Recently, now, two pathologists resigned and the coordinator - director of the cardiological clinic and the infarction treatment unit resigned. If it's not sinking, what do you say it is? In western Greece, Ayios runs out of cardiologist and distracts the cardiologist of Kalavryta, who lives without cardiologist. Argostoli without any pathologists. It is extracted from Patras’ primary health care every one. In Lefkada, ten days doesn't watch anesthesiologist. Why don't you hire anesthetics and fly some tens of a private person? The Tower extracts pathologists from all over the Peloponnese and western Greece, even from Tripoli. Amaliada only works as a vacant centre and only the TLPs. If this is not a degrading of the health system, tell me which bottom you will consider it inadequate. We are now coming to say something else. The Prime Minister accused us of yesterday in an interview that opposition did not help deal with the pandemic. Let him come here and say it in front of the former Minister and Health Department, Mr. Xanthos. Or if you want to repeat, you too now from this Step forward that the Opposition has not helped deal with the vaccinations for the pandemic, to see what limit your nerve has. I don't know what you'd think of help. Should we all show up in photos where we're vaccinating without a shirt? But we will give you this help, Minister, even more now that you need it. I am tabling to my comrades here, to SYRIZA, that from now on our slogan towards society is: "Get inoculate, because you must be vaccinated, and in this way we will escape both the coronary and the "Mitsotakis"". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, too. The Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr. Vasiliardos, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. Is the vaccine protected by the 'Metsotakis', Mr. Colleague? Is that so effective? Ladies and gentlemen, this bill includes another revision or addition of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation's donation, which should be the sixth in a row, if we are not mistaken, while it has not yet been finalised. In addition, the bill includes another extension of the pandemic's exceptional measures in some way, since it was evident from at least the second extension that the pandemic would not end in three months. It won't end. However, the government continues with the quarterly extensions, when it is known to all of us that pandemics of this kind last for at least two years. This is how citizens are terrified, while remaining in a state of protracted shock. So, in fact, pandemic is working to achieve some objectives that are certainly not for the benefit of the citizens. It is well known that this kind of shock is paralyzing social reactions, and that, among other things, measures to deprive freedom that would otherwise be impossible to impose are being imposed. A similar shock was the condemnation of Greece in the Memorandums without any real reason, as we have often documented in previous speeches, with the aim of reducing the nominal wages and pensions of workers, as well as the pillaging of public and private property, which is now in full progress. Unfortunately for all of us, Greece as an independent state has now ceased to exist, and has been flooded by independent authorities that are in fact dependent on our foreign lenders. For example, RAE, the Energy Regulatory Authority, which shares RES licences with imported machinery, without any interest in national energy policy. For example, in Evia he licenses wind turbines in the burnt forests, as we will testify in the Practically all together, despite the fact that the government claimed to be resurrected. The next example of ADI, which is not even controlled by the Ministry of Finance, is of course a precondition for the third memorandum, which was passed by all three parties of the Troika domestic, although founded in 2016 by SYRIZA. Third example, the Hypertension, the mother of the CFSF, the Financial Stability Fund, the TIAD and the EBRD, which has the real estate of the State, which was established in 2016, but was also a prerequisite for the third memorandum in which it was promised, transferred and sold out our public property against our state debts, but which will continue to increase. Of course, we could be opposed by saying that the independent authorities are provided for in European legislation. However, we would say to him that in Germany the respective RAE is not independent at all, and recently there has been a conviction by a European court, as we will testify in the Minutes, but without Germany having to comply as usual. Why didn't he comply? Because it's financially independent. Without economic independence there is certainly no national sovereignty, whether we want it or not. We repeat that without economic independence there is no national sovereignty. It's "fakes". Returning to the bill, as we mentioned, it has been revised several times and still has not been finalized, and we have to repeat that the Stavros Niarchos Foundation has its seat in Bermuda, in the well-known tax haven. In other words, it does not pay taxes to Greece, like VAT for this donation, which we consider to be completely unfair, recalling that Greeks abroad are not even allowed to vote if they do not have VAT, so if they do not pay taxes. With regard to the history of donation, we will submit a similar document in the Minutes, not to mention one by one, noting that the total of the projects agreed is about EUR 228,000 to EUR 228,000 to date, and that is still EUR 215,000 after the increase in the amount to 444,000 to 400,000, 000 to date. Will they really be absorbed, in particular, by Sparta Hospital, as we assume from the analytical table we'll submit in the Minutes? The bill, now, in July 2020, n.4702, included the donation of a hundred fifty-fifths and nineteen MAFs to fifteen hospitals because of the pandemic. Really, are those ICUs working? We ask because, as we read, in February 2021, the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation was donated to the "Evangelism" twenty new IF beds. However, the hospital suddenly differentiated the technical specifications of the project by changing the final contractor, and six months after the new IF beds are ignored, according to the relevant documents we will deposit in the Minutes. Something similar happened with the donation of Ms Angelopoulos, which provided some 2.4 million euros for eighteen beds in "Papanikolaou", but was not available yet, so they did not work. We will also submit a relevant document on the Minutes. Is that true? If so, does it not look like the government prefers to disperse panic and rent ITH from private individuals? As far as the ‘Norarch’ aeronautics are concerned, after the flights from Air Niarchos - EKAV - the ‘Norarch’ always require its name to be put on the donations - why are private contracts being renewed? Aren't these flights enough? We note here that the donation, Project V, concerned the supply of two new aircraft and the repair of two existing helicopters of EUR 26.4 million. We're going to testify about the Minutes. In addition, has AEGEAN finally donated to the public the promised ATR, so that it can be converted into EAW aerospace facilities? I hope the Minister will answer our questions. Furthermore, the donation of 7.5 million is costing if you read the conditions set by the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation. For example, it presupposes covering the hotel costs or other equipment needed to complete the project, setting up the appropriate conditions for the delivery of premises to be installed for medical equipment, etc., as we will testify in the minutes, not all of them. However, the General Accounting Office of the State has not quantified it. Why is it true? Finally, we will only refer to Article 33, to the extension of the programme for the national vaccination campaign reasonably by 31/12-2021. Will it really serve as a pretext again to give more advertising to the media government, so that Greeks can continue their political manipulation? By continuing now in the economy, the prices of a number of basic goods, such as food, gas and electricity, have risen sharply in recent years. So we are wondering whether this is a dangerous or a relatively risky rise in prices, in inflation better, that is, if it is a temporary one, which will be passed soon - as the Governor of the Bank of Greece said - or not. In this context, several people seem to be faced with an unknown situation, which is certainly not the case. In particular, the processes observed worldwide after the two crises of oil prices in the 1970s - something similar today with gas - provide enough explanatory material, where the core of history is as follows: The then oil price increases hit full-time - zero-employment economies - in other words - in the early 1970s, but where the trade unions were extremely strong. In these circumstances there was an external shock in the form of an oil price rise, which initially led to an increase in the price level of industrial countries. Thus, inflation increased, but it would be temporary, transient. In other words, prices would easily come back to the previous level if the trade unions did not react. In simple terms, if the trade unions were prepared to accept the reduction in the real wages of workers - indeed it is nominal but not inflation - and they did not want to burden the profitability of domestic businesses, price increases would indeed be transient. However, in all the countries of the world, the rising price levels were the trade union signal to demand increases, with the aim, in essence, of shifting the burdens from the highest oil prices to employers. In view of full employment, the lack of labour, i.e., as well as the great negotiating power of the trade unions at that time, in most of the western countries, very large wage increases were required and wage increases were accepted. Immediately afterwards, however, because the economy was in growth, the companies carried some of the increases in oil prices and wages in product prices, in which case employees indirectly as consumers. This has put the wage-price spiral into operation, as it is said, i.e. wages have risen, then again, wages and so on, because the unions have tried and achieved even higher wages to overcome inflation. Finally, this effort was violently strangled by central banks with the increase in key interest rates, thus creating a recession. This has caused unemployment to rise abruptly, as we experienced in Greece with the Memorandum - that was the recipe - and the negotiating power of the trade unions has been reduced and, in the end, completely weakened as a result of the prevalence of the extreme neoliberalism that we are still experiencing today. In conclusion, inflation is not caused by a specific event or by a bidding shock, but is the result of a process in which wages - unit labour costs of a product produced, to be more precise - play the most important role, in the driver of developments. In this case, if there are no wage claims based on rising inflation rates or which cannot be imposed by workers on employers, then no continuous or escalating inflation is caused. There are, of course, still price increases, but what we characterize as inflation or over-inflation, that is, an accelerated price rise that lasts several years, does not exist. When, therefore, the Governor of the Bank of Greece or the Ministers refer to a transient phenomenon, they do not mean price increases, but they do not mean that wages - prices - wages due to high unemployment in Greece, the inability of trade unions, constant migratory flows and acceptance of their fate on the part of workers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll take the time of my dentistry, Mr. President. Bright assumption, much more so since Greek workers are the only ones in history who accepted the nominal reduction of their wages by about 30% through the memoranda, that is, EUR 1,000, 700, without any protest, and now the EUR 700 will become inflationary if the workers do not react. Therefore, the future and attitude of the workers will show whether the commander's and the government's case in terms of inflation is correct or not. If we are faced with a dangerous or harmless rise in inflation rates, which is of course not only about Greece but about many countries of the world. We will close with the degrading allegations that have been made here by a colleague, unfortunately, about the non-vaccinated, that they are the people of the margin, the extreme right and the others. Is it really so difficult to understand that there are people who have not been vaccinated because they are afraid, because they are alert, because there are many conflicting views, because they have specific illnesses, because they have already been sick and others? Is that so hard? Is it not courageous for all of these to be called extreme right-wing people or people of the margin? Isn't that a shame on that kind of expression? Aren't they fascist? Would it not be better for the government in general to deal with the shamefulness of the vaccines? Are they not aware that only the German ‘BioNTech’ that produces mRNA in collaboration with ‘PFISER’ won only in the second quarter of 2021,6 billion euros from the mRNA? So he's clearly earning 50% of a vaccine funded by taxpayers? We're talking about 50% when no business on the planet has a net profit of more than 5%, too? Is that how this pharmaceutical company is interested in our health by earning so much money? Isn't that just making citizens reasonably sceptical? Is it unreasonable to think of who is gaining huge sums of money from the continuing terrorism that is being done in society? Almost 1 billion a month only one company and only one vaccine! However, if the accusations of his colleague SYRIZA that the government sacrificed six thousand Greeks only in 2021 who died unfairly because he did not bring monoclonals like eight other European Union countries to force, blackmail the citizens to be vaccinated, it would be a real crime, literally murder. The government must perpetuate and not blackmail, let alone in such disgraceful a fascist way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. Mr. Konstantinos Maraveyas is called to Stepma by New Democracy and Mr. Bluchos is also being prepared by the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u176	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was very surprised to hear Mr Marcos the last speaker of SYRIZA directly asking the government if it can easily say that the opposition did not put its back on it. I don't want to generalize it. I will reply that Mr Marcu has certainly not put his own back when he asks a question by putting another thirty-six - if I am not mistaken - colleagues from Officer Responsibility to endorse it with which he directly undermines the confidence of society in the national health system, when he accuses the fact that in intensive care units, untrained health workers who are indirectly responsible for mortality. I think he doesn't look to anyone to claim that the National Health System with his workers causes mortality. My opinion is that the national health system over time consists of people who give the best of themselves, who offer services regardless of which government is in things every time and I think that implying in particular the party of Officerial Response that the ESS is not working properly, really shakes the confidence of Greek society. It is therefore rather a shame and hypocrisy that he hides in the question of the previous colleague. The bill, however, comes to serve public health by paying the donation of the Social Benefit Foundation "Stavros Niarchos" to the public for the provision and installation of advanced medical devices at the University Hospitals of Heraklion, Ioannina, Larissa and Alexandroupolis. And the amendment of the donation contract finances the supply and installation of special building equipment and the development of suitable infrastructure for the operation of the new radiological equipment. Positron emission tomotors are machinery with high technical operating and safety requirements, so it is necessary to prepare comprehensive studies for their installation as well as to adapt existing infrastructure to university hospitals in order to welcome these new peak technology tomographers. It is a project that exceeds EUR 7 million and is expected to be completed by February 2022 with obvious benefits for patients in the region who are unable to come for PET in the major centers of Athens and Thessaloniki. However, the bill also includes urgent provisions for a pandemic, such as the extension of staff contracts to the Ministry of Health as well as doctors to the EGE or family doctors, the recruitment of doctors with a fixed period of time to meet the emergency needs of hospitals, the recruitment of new ancillary staff to the public health system, the qualification of special hospital equipment and consumables for the ESS as well as the health coverage of uninsured and vulnerable groups. However, this bill is not limited to these measures alone, it also contains a number of other provisions of a strong social character, such as the extension of free control for COVID -19, the issue of monthly or repeated prescriptions over time and the dispatch to the home of medicinal products that our vulnerable citizens need. Mr President, all these provisions are being supplemented by amendments - additions by the Ministry of Health to deal with the coronary. I distinguish the intervention of Thanos Plori on monoclonal antibodies and the improvement of the framework for compulsory vaccination of personnel in social services. As the Minister said at the meeting of the committee on monoclonals, some people have presented it as panacea - we have heard it here before, and I am glad to say that I saw at least ice cream in the eyes of SYRIZA colleagues - which would solve all the issues. And, of course, this is unfortunately a long way from reality. I wish it were true, but it's not. So it is true that a attitude such as that of Mr Polakis who insists on monoclonal antibodies as a magic solution gives the wrong signal to the citizens. We should not therefore say "go and get sick, but don't worry because you're taking a medicine and you're not even going to approve it." We say: 'Get your weight out so you don't get sick and in danger'. However, despite the fact that monoclonal antibodies has still not received all necessary approvals, that it had positive results in recent clinical trials led to the Ministry of Health introducing them into specific cases of early COVID disease. The provision enables the State to buy monoclonal antibodies, although still at an initial stage of approval, with the aim of using them as a priority in cases of patients with severe underlying diseases. It is an attempt to get the maximum therapeutic benefit from monoclonals without creating excessive expectations of their use. The other important Coronovirus regulation concerns the extension of compulsory vaccination to all personnel of the disability certification centres. This is also a measure imposed by the vulnerability of the people who are served by these centres. Also exempt from the obligation to vaccinate disabled people who are unable to undergo the vaccination process not due to risk, but for practical reasons, such as severe autism, mental deprivation and epilepsy. Minister, other provisions of the amendment, such as the extension of ancillary staff contracts by the end of March 2022, are being put in place for the general support of the National Health System, as well as incentives for anestheticists and on-calls. In particular, the possibility of anaesthetics being moved to non-Attica hospitals for on-call, compensated at EUR 250 per day - a much larger than the current one - and the extension of the same incentive to private anesthetics is very important. Most importantly, however, the Ministry plans to extend this incentive to other specialists, such as intensive scientists, pneumonologists and pediatricians. In conclusion, I would like to refer to two commitments made by the Prime Minister a few days ago at the Thessaloniki International Fair, which is being acted on today: with ministerial amendments two very important economic measures relating to the large social majority are being implemented. The first is to increase the tax on parental benefits from the EUR 150,000 that is currently at EUR 80 000. It effectively ceases the unacceptable regime of double taxation of property that workers parents have labored in order to help their children. The second important economic and social measure is the subsidisation of domestic gas and low-voltage electricity. This is State interference with the energy cost of retrospectively covering consumption as from 1 September and concerns all household and business low-voltage accounts. I would stress that this mechanism will be of a permanent nature, in the future funding other measures to ensure that prices for energy products are kept at a level that is accessible to all consumers. These measures for many are showing that the New Democracy remains the party of many, a fact that continues to serve the country and the general interest, supporting society as well, but above all public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr. Maraveya. Constantine goes down, Constantine rises and Mr Constantine Blouchos has the floor from New Democracy. And now that you have relaxed, let me say something to you: as regards this statement by the President of the "Edessaic" you call upon many Members, because he is not the president, he is the Secretary-General of the "USE Edessaikos". At that time, the president was Mr. Constantinidis. I'm saying it for clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u178	You do well to say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u179	Mrs. Aeger knows why her father is dealing with sports. Here you go, Mr. Blush, we're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to Stepma as a Member of Parliament, but because Mr Paulakis always wants us to speak in our professional capacity as a doctor of the ESS.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u181	You're a poet!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u182	We leave the poems today, we'll talk a little more pedestrian. I say this because a neoliberal chat in the committee's discussions - as I have seen, but also here - the message blurs, the government's intentions and offers a hospitable incubation of the zero egg. I'm done, Mrs. Auger. So let's get started. Multi-speed staff: IMPLEMENTATION, OAED, ASAP and everything else, of course, permanent. How and when do these classifications exist? When did we get them in? When did they enter the National Health System and with what perspective did they enter? And what did you do for them? Why don't we all go in now, our ministers are here too, right? - For the days of SYRIZA, and possibly earlier, and some people are now trapped in there. And now you're all coming in and asking for horizontals - I don't know any constitutional or non-implementations. And I'm talking about some of these charges, why didn't you do it, and how would you do it? And I do not know if it goes through our minds that, in order to ensure some quality in this ERC, evaluation criteria are needed, because quality is not guaranteed. So choose: Do you want quality conditions in ESS patients, yes or no? Now, 'perpetuate everyone!' What's it gonna ensure? Or rather who will satisfy? What a hypocrisy - I say - that's her! And what does that mean? That we do not recognize the offer of all those people who stood and supported the National Health System and continue to support it, while you recognize it? In general terms, the SYRIZA rapporteur has spoken about non-assistance of infrastructure. Now we become a little serious: there are tangible examples and I challenge some of you for official visits to many regional hospitals with their complete reconstruction in relation to their building, logistics, medical equipment. It looks like these, the patients see them, the people who work. I challenge you and I invite you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u183	Let's go to Drama together!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u184	Of course! But it's Drama. Yes, you know where you're aiming, well you do, but I invite you and I invite Mr. Xanthos and all of you, of course our Minister at some point.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u185	I've already come!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u186	We should walk together, then! Listen: For the general coverage of the ESS, we have said about non-assistance of infrastructure. This is unbelievable and it is not what has been done over the last two years and what has been done - you know - from funding through programmes - the NRP, for example, regional or other coverage - what will be done. We're talking about disinfection on equipment. We're getting past it. For staff, nursing cover, do you not know - come to Drama and any other regions you want, but also to centres - that private centres are looking for staff who do not find them? Why? Because the majority of those who were in the free profession or outside have been absorbed into the ERC by these non-aid that you say, these ten, twelve thousand, how much staff have now entered. Do you not know that categories of Nursing, such as TEs in the regions, but also in centres, do not exist on lists to be absorbed? I've got approval in my humble hospital of fifteen P.T. and T.T. and there's no one to absorb. If you find them, we'll gladly take them because the approvals exist. Let's talk about the ICUs, because there's been a lot of talk and some fireworks. There are many notices from the ICM, the ones recently made in the previous period. Aren't you all aware that there was mostly a recycled staff in the ESS from hospital to hospital, without any real new entrants, while there are an invitations? The former Minister spoke at some point about a new strategy, which he obviously does not see in us. At some point, however, I heard an excellent doctor - the line, obviously of SYRIZA - on a recent escalation visit with the former Minister at a hospital in the region to answer a corresponding question, when they were asked what would be different: 'We in SYRIZA would do everything differently.' And of course, it was applauded by you too. I wonder - I will not mention what the humble hospital is - who handed it over to the situation that it is today? We have been ruling for two years and we are talking about infrastructure, how the hospital is and what infrastructure it has. So, we got it, did we fix it, and we did it badly? And what about that humble hospital in terms of its infrastructure, that is, its vital spaces - which are not there and are not - and what would you do today in that humble provincial hospital? Would you build it again overnight? We're talking about a difficult area for a humble little hospital. Would you ensure in one night vital spaces for CIVID clinics -19 and all the spaces that a troubled one needs - such as, of course, you and all the previous administrations delivered it - a hospital? The former Minister has said at some point that he needs a new health strategy, which will not only focus on vaccination. And then in his own report he wonders what we're going to do with this 25% of unvaccinated adults. It's contradictory. And he doesn't recognise new strategic health to prevent dispersal, you say. But the prevention of dispersal is in itself vaccination, Mr. Xanthi, in good epidemiological surveillance. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm sorry, but how does that work? Suggest how this can be done. Pre-privileged management, who, Mr. former Minister? With what means? Do you mean the involvement of your primary health care? But we don't know what you've done, because in recent years, what I've seen about primary health - and we all know that it's at these levels that we all recognise - is a puzzle from health centers, from doctors to health centers, agricultural doctors, multimedicals or private individuals, a first-time health care offer puzzle. But how? Since you have not seen any strategy, then, what strategy do you propose? I'd beg - because I haven't really seen it - a practical translation fertile to what you're saying. Specialize what you say, enlighten us and we may make use of them. It is clear that you have good proposals. You know the system, as we all know, very well. But specialize. You referred to the fact that a restart should also be made in the vaccinations. And you see no serious strategy and processing of course too. And I wonder: did SYRIZA take more targeted actions all along? I do not directly blame you for undermining the vaccination effort. I don't. You are not a government, but you are a political party with governmental experience and could rather than permanent barbaric criticism contribute with actions of persuasiveness. Did you do something? And, of course, in the confusion and irrationality of SYRIZA and in the face of the Pan-Decisional and Transcendental Approach from the former Deputy Minister, I will give the best answer rather by the mouth of the former Minister present, Mr. Xanthos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u187	And please finish this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u188	Your tolerance, Mr President. You've put up with Mr. Polakis. At least I'm talking late. The Minister asks for the new strategy, health and integration, and very well he says in the therapeutic arsenal of our fellow doctors, new healing regimes, which are slowly adopted by international approved bodies. That's great. That's the answer. Now, because Mr Paulakis - and I do not know what official evidence he said that he would testify, but he did not submit - with particular arbitraryness, I could say, he said that he would save six thousand lives, that is not only scientific populism, it is possible malignancy. I am not going to present them at some other time, on another occasion - the recent guidelines and the management of COVID patients from the IDSA. So in the recent guidelines here - because, here we are provoking to speak scientifically, we must give clear scientific answers and not make a baca's arithmetic - nowhere is there a profit and a benefit so impressive that it would save these six thousand claimed by Mr Paulakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u189	Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u190	Your tolerance, please. This is official evidence. And you know the power of evidence in us is purely scientific. These are six random perspective studies, Mr. Xanthi, a panel and they draw up these guidelines.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u191	Shut up with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u192	Powerful evidence and what they propose. I won't testify now. It's time for Mr. Paulakis to be present too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u193	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u194	No, no, no. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u195	Please! You've spoken five more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u196	Just a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u197	The same will be asked for by the others. It can't be done, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u198	There are a lot of things that need to be said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u199	I get it. But what can we do? That's the time. That's the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u200	Please don't interrupt me, let me finish. I love you and I respect you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u201	And I love you and I respect you more than you do. But it can't be, that's the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u202	I'll say one last thing. Your tolerance, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u203	You have my tolerance! Don't tell me that! Twelve minutes you've been talking!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u204	I address our Minister and colleagues. They must welcome the effort we are making and I believe that this effort will continue, in terms of dealing with the problem of barren positions, barren specialties, a chronic problem, chronic diseases. And it is poorly cultivated in the way that the opposition is working on this particular problem. And this support, the incentive given in the amendment of EUR 250, which is a brave incentive, to have and to have a sense of law, must be adapted in the near future - it is my suggestion, Mr Minister - to overhaul existing doctors in the regional hospitals, which give their 'is'. In other words, over-information beyond normal on-calls has the same amount of compensation. That's the suggestion. I believe with the discussions we have made that you have accepted it and in the next period we will proceed to that. And, of course, not only for anesthetics but also for other specialties right now that are narrowing, such as pathology, doctors in intensive care units and pulmonaries in the front line. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, too. I'm sorry, you know that. You don't like what Mr. Paulakis does, but you're invoking after the year.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u206	I enjoyed Mr. Polakis. But I asked for your tolerance at the corresponding time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u207	Fourteen minutes Mr. Paulakis made, thirteen minutes and forty seconds you. What's the difference? Mrs. Kafantaris has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I'll try to be brief. But before I begin my position on this bill, on the serious issue of public health, I cannot say two things, which I think are topical and must be said. First of all, I would like to say that unfortunately about a year after the condemnation of the criminal organization, the Golden Dawn, we see that the snake egg is gradually hatched in both northern Greece and Thessaloniki with what we have lived and lived in the last few days. I consider it politically unacceptable and democratically, if I may say so, that the logic of equal distances which is maintained by the government, its officials and top officials and that logic of Pontius Pilate is unacceptable. This is not about the parties, it is not a narrow party issue, but it is a question of democracy. And democracy in this place has history. Our democratic people will also isolate these far-right fascist structures, but of course it will also bring about a progressive change in governance which, if anything, will ensure democracy in this place. The second thing I want to say is that it has to do with our fellow citizens in Crete, Heraklion, where a few days after the earthquake they are still in mud and in tents. They could be few. It's a reason more than that. In Crete, about two million tourists visit each year and with more than a hundred sixty - hundred thousand beds, no solution has yet been found for these people to housing. The new Ministry of Civil Protection which Mr Mitsotakis has announced, and is undergoing, is certainly another matter, and I shall not mention here how and why - it will really be judged on the management of this crisis. Because the management of this crisis shows some things. I won't say anything more. I'm coming to the draft law. Minister, of course you represent the government at the moment and I place myself in total. As a government, Mr Mitsotakis' government has completely failed to manage the pandemic. The figures themselves show exactly that thing. Being second after Bulgaria in deaths per million is not an honor for our country. You have failed with your communication procedures and policies even in the part of the vaccination that we all agree is a key element and a weapon to tackle this pandemic. You used the issue of vaccination to carry out your plans, which you had announced in the election - no one knew clearly about pandemic at the time - simply to privatise a large part of the public health system, simply because it is in your DNA the private and the abstention to what is public. I am not going to talk about energy, about PPC, about PPC, about TEN, about what you are doing, but the logic of privatization is really within you. In fact, Prime Minister Mitsotakis, in the pandemic, recently, two - three months ago, brought the PPP issue back to public hospitals. You, enthusiastically implement that logic. We therefore have private individuals in the RIS, in public hospitals, in contractors in hospitals taking up many jobs now, not only in the area of cleaning or storage, etc., but also in key parts and elements of a public hospital. In fact, don't tell us that contractors may be less costly. I will mention to you features of the "Evangelism" that 2 million a year were saved with the individual contracts made by the cleaning, storage, etc., in relation to contractors. You generally bring them back. But I'm sorry, how can anyone believe you, Minister? On 22 September we visited Thessaloniki and said: "We came for precautionary reasons. There is no question of measures.' From September 30th, Thessaloniki is in a mini lockdown. You referred, of course, to the fact that the EOPY must act as a private insurance company. The first amendment, which you tabled as Minister, was of private interest and a PPP in hospitals. Not even for vaccine patents - I am referring to the government as a whole on the issue of patents - or on the issue of the monoclonals we are discussing today. SYRIZA was named, and Alexis Tsipras was swept away, our ministers were swept over these issues that you are doing in retrospect. You've failed. The working hostage of workers with inside public hospitals continues, with fixed-term private-law contracts and, as you said, they are extended until 31-32022 due to the exceptional needs of the pandemic. How do you know this is gonna end a pandemic then? Of course, I'll say that that's where you've fallen out. Mr Mitsotakis said at the beginning of the summer: 'We are giving the last mile to the pandemic'. How many miles have we spent all this time, Minister? But what is the situation in public hospitals today? I shall refer to western Athens, and I shall refer specifically to the "Athens Hospital" which shows this logic of privatization, which is being carried out gradually. There is a committee on the new organisation that has been set up for ten years. On what criteria, however, has this committee, with the participation of individuals and universities, became externally involved, I think, without the participation of the Ministry of Health and, of course, of local bodies, workers, etc., in order to draw up the new charter of the hospital? This is a serious matter. Individuals from the program "Stavros Niarchos", Minister of State, within the "Athens Hospital" make an inventory of fixed assets. This is a very serious matter. Private company handles the file. We're talking about personal data and medical secrets and a thousand two things. Individuals in the accounting office, except for the preservation of cleanliness, etc. Also, when the IMI contract ends, staff are recruited by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation itself. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course, not to say about the infectious and the "Saint Barbara", the scoundrel of Western Athens for you and your political times, which showed its value in the pandemic. Mr Kontozamanis said that he would be interconnected with "Attica". No one knows what interests are being played there and no hospital upgraded to play the serious role in the downgraded and neglected by you western Athens. Required recruitment of permanent staff. We as SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and Alexis Tsipras in Thessaloniki talked about taking over the country's rule by a democratic progressive government. Immediately there will be five and a half thousand hirings in the health sector, the doctor's salary will start from 2,000, and ten thousand hirings of health personnel will be in the depth of three years, and a way of permanentizing these health workers who actually put their backs in the pandemic will be found. Because, indeed - and here I come to reply to the New Democracy colleague who spoke about quality - there can be no quality of health system without the necessary staff. That's the first. So we are discussing a bill now, which has to do with an amendment to a contract for the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, which took place in 2018 on SYRIZA, and here you manage it in such a way that a donation of general interest will be made private. You are currently excluding public hospitals from the production of radiopharmaceuticals. All this helps someone. They are of course serving private individuals. That's who you are, gentlemen of the New Democracy! Public health for you is not the right of every citizen, but it is a commodity for a few friends and 'perfects'. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mrs. Kafantaris. Mr. Vassilis - Peter Spanakis from New Democracy is called in Stepma and Mrs. Bryzidou from New Democracy is being prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u210	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have 1 October. From today, fathers, grandparents, grandparents, grandparents, mothers to transfer, to give the property to their child, to their grandchildren without tax. And that is an important provision that this government brings. This is about the respect shown by the New Democracy Government to the Greek family. For over time, since its establishment, this party has been respecting the Greek family, respecting the Greek property and is here to move Greece forward. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a draft law by the Ministry of Health which has as its main object the upgrading of public health structures, and in its second part includes the necessary extensions of provisions due to COVID, as well as some measures to promote and facilitate vaccination. The amendment of the donation contract of the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation to the Greek public and specifically for Project VI is hereby ratified. This sub-contract has been part of the Memorandum of Cooperation since 2018 between the Greek State and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for the strengthening and upgrading of health infrastructure. It is an example of good public and private cooperation. And we have many examples of such donations from important benefactors from the establishment of the Greek state. We should, in fact, motivate and strengthen the institution of donations for all. Yesterday, we discussed and voted for a bill from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in which, among other things, we included arrangements for the dismantling of minors so as not to remain in structures and institutions, as well as arrangements for child abuse and neglect. And I mention this because there are today institutions and structures for the hospitality and care of infants, children and adolescents, who are doing really great work, but with very great difficulties. Most of them have serious problems meeting their operational needs. They need resources and we could introduce generous tax incentives to donors who wish to offer. And we have to do it even more. After all, on this matter I had also tabled a relevant question following visits to the court of the Child in Hymettos, the "National National House" in Kallithea, the "Children's House", the Saint Alexander" in the Old Faliro and many other institutions of my constituency. The donation we are debating today concerns the provision and installation of special medical equipment at the hospitals of Larissa, Alexandroupolis, Heraklion and Ioannina, as well as the financing for the development and implementation of appropriate infrastructures for the installation and operation of special medical equipment. Following discussions between the Foundation and the Greek State, they considered that the Greek State could not prepare relevant studies and technical work in time, as it had undertaken. It was decided, at the request of the Greek State - and requested by the Foundation - that this part be taken over by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, so that there would not be much delays in the completion of the project. For its part, the Greek State committed itself to maintaining the medical equipment for a sufficient period after its installation. On the individual terms, I will mention the institution's obligation to ensure that suppliers provide staff with free training in the use of special medical equipment. For its part, each hospital undertakes to ensure that staff are selected and made available in good time for training and use of the special medical equipment. The equipment will always be owned and held by the hospital within the designated areas. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, we are still experiencing the consequences of the pandemic, but we have gradually been in a situation of normality with some restrictive but necessary measures where necessary. And it's everyone's wish, and we have to do everything possible for that, so we don't have to get back into Lockdown. And that is why we are extending a number of measures, where this is of course necessary. This is where the second part of the current bill comes in which we have a series of extensions to arrangements. For example, a number of contracts are extended by the end of the year, such as the contracts of staff of various specialists, serving at the central agency of the Ministry of Health, EGE doctors, as well as the works and services of independent health professionals from various specialities and administrative staff, EGE contracts for care and cleaning services, catering and feeding services. The existing contracts for doctors and doctors of private private doctors and their monthly allowances are extended. It also extends the possibility of directly recruiting physicians of all specialties under appointment but the decision to place them has not yet been adopted. Other extensions up to 31-12-21 concern the regulation on overtime work of EGE staff, the possibility of concluding contracts for the implementation of the act of setting up a network of nurses for home care services and taking samples from potential COVID cases -19, the dispatch of medicines to patients and vulnerable groups that are restricted. The possibility of obtaining donations from private and all legal persons to the EGE continues. The conclusion of contracts for the strengthening of primary health care structures, as well as the extension of the health coverage of uninsured and vulnerable social groups in need of hospitality, is also prolonged. We also have a series - and I shall conclude, Mr President - of the corresponding arrangements for both amendments by the Ministry of Health. Finally, but no less important, it is also the fourth part that includes the arrangements for strengthening vaccinations. Facilities are provided to include vulnerable or excluded social groups, citizens from third countries, homeless and in general people with limited access to the health system, and this is very important. Thus, the possibility of joining the municipal hospitals’ vaccination programme, social institutions, non-profit organisations, is being provided. This is a practice proposed by the European Commission as being particularly effective. We also have the expansion of administrative structures beyond the JEPs for the provision of temporary AMCA and a COVID digital certificate. However, we must not omit the amendments and in particular the amendment by the Ministry of Finance with the arrangements to support the people affected by the recent earthquakes in Crete. Immediately the Ministry activates the mechanism in order to restore the damage and support the affected as quickly as possible. But we must not forget the second amendment by the Ministry of Finance, which includes, among other things, increasing the tax to 800,000 for parental benefits and donations. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that in principle it is a bill with which we all agree. Moreover, as I said at the outset, it concerns only the strengthening of public health structures, as well as measures to make as many vaccination coverage as possible. It is necessary to achieve the goal. In the last few days, we have seen the outbreak of cases, mainly in northern Greece, and we must protect both public health and the economy, because the treatment of pandemic is directly linked to the future of the Greek economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr. Spaniard. Mrs. Friday Bryzidou from New Democracy is called to Step and then Mr. Alexiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill refers to another donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for the Greek State, for our hospitals, for health issues. Two years ago, the Foundation decided and funded the organisation of four centres with medical equipment on complex medical problems, on the diagnosis of complex cancer cases, which are of particular importance to the whole country and to all patients. So this convention, with great diligence, is being monitored in order to complete it and, in fact, within a short period of time until February of 1922. On this path it was found that there were possible delays in the public's obligation to draw up technical reports and prepare the premises where the already existing supplier of equipment would place the machinery. This has come about because the procedures are being delayed in public and the supplier himself has taken over, so that we have them in a short time and that a very important task can be completed, which will provide public health. The second part, which concerns this bill, concerns the extensions of subsidiary doctors. Here too, I would like to make an important position for the medical and nursing staff of the hospitals, because here in this Chamber, particularly in opposition, there has been criticism of whether there is adequate medical staff and nurses. I want us to revert over the last five years and record exactly what was happening in public hospitals. Positions were announced, which were not covered by doctors. Why? Because there was no such provision, so that these doctors could go to remote regional hospitals. There have been shortcomings in doctors and there have been no ICUs. There have been gaps in important clinics in many hospitals, as I personally know from my regional unit, from my prefecture. There have also been shortages of nurses at a time when neither the coronary nor the unfavourable conditions we have to face today. And now, how's the whole thing? Directly, on the mandate of the New Democracy, three thousand eight hundred permanent and doctors are on the way. The two thousand doctors have already been placed and operated in hospitals. Nowadays, five thousand three hundred doctor posts are under way. Also, many subsidiary doctors, as well as nurses, have served structures and hospitals. With regard to the shortcomings, even today, which have been left by a number of nurses and doctors due to availability, because they are unvaccinant, and again immediately the Ministry has studied the gaps and covers them either by calling for supplementary doctors who are waiting and nurses or by the extension we are voting on today by the end of March of 1922. The EGE is also extended to doctors and all other actions, to guarding, cleansing, feeding. So hospitals and structures work - and they work! - in a way sufficient. This does not mean that we are not trying, we are not all watching the situation every day, because we are interested every day in being safe for the citizens, and there is certainly a matter with doctors and certain specialties. The first was to be more tempting. We already have this bill, but of course we are monitoring developments and we must make a further contribution in that direction. Because hospitals and clinics do matter and work properly when they have adequate medical and nurses. Finally, I would like to refer to the major issue of vaccination, which has also made a lot of comments on whether there has been sufficient information or whether people have been persuaded to be vaccinated, whether a large number of people, citizens and, more generally, whether the whole process has gone well. I must say that we need to observe all developments from the beginning to the present day. A very large number of our fellow citizens have been vaccinated. They have already been protected from difficult situations in elderly or vulnerable groups. There is another measure coming today, which has had its difficulties, but it has also begun to develop. It's about people who were homeless, citizens who didn't have AMCAs and couldn't be vaccinated. There is a similar provision. It can be issued temporary AMCA to these citizens too, through the JEPs, so that they can immediately be vaccinated. So there is concern for all the citizens who want it. Those who are not their personal choice are not vaccinated. However, no one is excluded and there is a fight and an attempt to build the wall of protection in all directions, so that we can have a safe tomorrow. The current government shows particular care and sensitivity to households and the economically weaker. Yesterday’s bill of law gave people with disabilities serious weight. He paid attention to new couples who could not afford to pay the woman who would keep their children working hours. It protects young people from abuse when they're in various institutions. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] All this shows sensitivity, shows the care of a government, which takes care of all directions, and is sovereign in ensuring the integrity of our country in national matters, with the historic agreement that has been reached with France, and which we must mention, because it is very important. We are proud, not only because we are MPs or I personally of the New Democracy, but mainly because we are Greek. All of this must be pointed out and, above all, we must support our efforts to support social structures, our vulnerable citizens, in order to have a strong, but also a particularly sensitive social state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u213	Thank you. Mr Alexiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, at the end of my speech you will make an observation, not for the time of my speech - I will try to be consistent - but in its content, because what I shall say is not for the substance of the bill. After all, with full political adequacy our representatives have spoken and will speak. I'm going to talk about the Treasury's amendments to this bill. I will not remember what you were telling us about 'final state', that you are government of 'excellent', how organized you are, what programming you have, how you manage everything perfectly! These are no longer a joke, not even your journalists laugh. No one's laughing at them. I would remind you, however, that the Ministry of Finance is an important ministry in the public sector, it is not a second or third-class ministry. All ministries are important, but the Ministry of Finance - because they support all the other ministries in the budget to the Ministry of Finance - must have an elementary planning. The Prime Minister's announcements were made in IDH. So the Ministry of Finance, instead of bringing a tax bill or a bill containing all these measures and having a real debate in this House, precisely because it understood the great policy of 'false' that you did with the measures in favour of the owners and occupants, with the class-based measures and not tax-justice measures that you brought, does not bring a bill, but what is it doing? He's bringing in amendments. So today I am going to talk about the amendments, because you deny, you fear dialogue as a government on fiscal policy - I have said so many times here - and you constantly bring amendments as a Ministry of Finance. There was an amendment made yesterday by the Ministry of Finance with three articles, in the Ministry of Labour's bill, to a completely irrelevant bill. Amendment tabled from 29 September, but which is currently being discussed in this draft law by the Ministry of Finance. Two amendments proposed by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of In this bill, if anyone sits down and sees the amendments as a set of articles, thirty - six articles in the bill have passed. Such a state I've never seen before. But we are now coming to the essence of the bill and because they will ask me here not the tax authorities - they have understood it for many days - but those who listen to us and come from the medical industry, I would like to say this: Do not look anywhere in the 15 articles of the Ministry of Finance's amendments to find 1 euro tax relief for health workers, for teachers, for teachers, for police officers, for workers in general public sector. There's nowhere like that. Of course, by reducing the special contribution of private health workers to the private sector, i.e. large-scale private insurance companies, large-scale pharmaceutical companies or private clinics or others who do not need tax relief because they have huge incomes, of course they will see a great deal of relief. In the public sector you cannot find 1 euro tax relief. Here too, Mr Secretary of State for Health, it is your responsibility, because you agreed to come this amendment to your bill, and you had to demand that there be at least a minimum income limit for the workers in public hospitals we applaud and thanks to them, and I became well, and others here, who are coming and who are our support, that there should be a 1 euro tax burden, since you have such a large number of benefits from the IGC and since those who have the opportunity to see the reductions. So I say again: Lighten the ones you're interested in in class. You did not at all lighten the workers in public hospitals, and this is a political choice of the government, but, Mr Minister of Health, it is up to you too, because you have accepted that. You have the possibility - and we also applaud it - until the meeting is over to bring about a legislative improvement and to extend the abolition of the solidarity levy to at least the workers in public hospitals. I am not talking about your "loved" police officers, soldiers and so on. These are for when you're called for a pie in any union. Do this for at least the workers in public hospitals, the public health sector. We shall vote against Amendment 1091/161, not because there are no positive articles in it. You have chosen to put it in the form of an amendment, i.e. either we vote for it or we vote against it. If you brought her in the form of articles in a bill, we would discuss it. But the New Democracy does not dare dialogue on tax issues. It doesn't dare in the House or outside the House. You choose monologues on convenient channels and convenient questions. We will therefore vote against it because we cannot accept the logic of these measures, and we have another logic, and we want the great majority of the Greek people to be reduced. We want a fair tax burden and not an unfair tax burden such as yours. And we are waiting for a response from the government at some point because it voted against our amendment to reduce the excise duty on energy products, which will reduce everyone, together with the workers in the public health sector. We shall, of course, be voting in favour of Amendment No 1089/160, because of course it has positive provisions in relation to earthquakes and other disasters. Two remarks and I'll close. In relation to what was heard with so dramatic a tone by a previous rapporteur from the New Democracy, because he and I also have knowledge and because we have historical memory here, are coming New Democracy - PASOK, PASOK - New Democracy and talking to us about a burden on the property? Mercy! What political forces took the property taxes from about 650 million euros a year and took them to 3.4 billion euros, search them from this side of the Chamber, not from there. SYRIZA was the first government ever since HNPI did not raise him one euro every year and was the first government to reduce him to a very large percentage in 2019 and then the last and subsequent reductions followed. Finally, because I imagine the Minister of Finance, who in my previous speech to another bill made a parliamentary force when I was speaking and said one example, said to me: 'All wrong' and has been recorded in the Minutes. I, you know, maybe I did the surgery, but I forget after 20 years. Until then I remember them. I repeat the example: A low-wage employee who gets 1,000 euros a month will go to buy a car of 25,000 euros and tell him that the tax office will pay him a presumption if he has no grandpa or father. While the son of a pharmaceutical executive - we say a random example - who wants to get the heap of three hundred thousand to make his tastes, his father will give him 300 grand, he will not pay 1 euro tax and he will go do what he has to do. Is that for you tax justice? Mr Minister for Health, even now make a provision to help workers in public health.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u215	We are now continuing with the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, and immediately afterwards with Mr Kegeroglou. Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr President. We believe that a controversy on the various regimens at Parliament's level covers the substance, hides the great picture and contributes to the reproduction of various darkening views on the vaccines that are currently in circulation. Of course, it is evolving in science, research and debate, without overlooking the fact that research into capitalism is a tool to shield the profitability of business groups and the commercialisation of popular needs, but the fragmentation of various such research or research results leads to irrationality, it promotes and masks the substance. What is the essence of the current situation? It is no other than the situation in the public health system, which was under collapse and with the pandemic manifested its nakedness. With the pandemic we had hospitals for a disease and primary health care, virtually nonexistent. Hospitals with huge shortages of buildings, equipment, ICUs, medical staff. And, of course, this is not the result of the last period or the memos began. Of course, the memoranda has deteriorated because of the memoranda, but the only thing to claim is to cover up the real cause and cultivate delusion. When did the staggering and huge problems actually start on the substance? It started on the ground in the 1990s and after the overthrows of socialism, the socialist system, and the cause was no more than an ever-increasing trade in health. And all of you, all of you, that's what you accept, health as a commodity. You don't disagree about that. And that is what you supported when you were called each time to take over governance and PASOK, KINAL and New Democracy, of course, and SYRIZA. What does health trade mean? I'll say some basics. Firstly, the fact that hospitals must operate on private economic criteria has all accepted it in the logic of cost-benefit, having own resources. Afternoon medics, if I'm not mistaken in the 1990 ’ s, they went to hospitals, paid for their examination by the insured. The reduction, of course, of state funding in hospitals, the closure of hospitals. In the name of rationalisation of expenditure, hospitals and the mainstream of infectious diseases have been closed, because we are over with pandemics. How short-sighted this concept of undermining everything in the logic of cost-benefit and commercialisation is. And the New Democracy - PASOK co-government closed the hospitals of the infectious diseases, whose function today would be decisive in the pandemic and SYRIZA closed the Thorakos Hospital in Patras, which would play an important role in today's conditions. Secondly, not only the emergence but also the huge growth of the private sector, a growth that is intertwined with the decline in the public sector, because it could not be done differently. A fragile public health system without shortcomings and problems would leave no room for a private sector to develop and build up. The third element of commercialisation is the attack on workers' rights in hospitals. This was related to the intensification of work, the adjustment of the working time of doctors in SYRIZA government and the working hours - tires, the reductions in wages lost by doctors over the last 30 years, the thousands of job vacancies, medical and nursing staff based on organograms, rather than on the needs of actual, multiple working relationships, fixed-term contracts, subsidiary contracts, which, incidentally, have been covered by the hospital's own resources, while all other contractors are paid through various programmes. Of course, within the hospitals themselves, we have the public-private partnerships with Thera Hospital in Santorini, which is such a form, as well as the new Children's Hospital in Komotini, which the New Democracy Government has converted into the contract signed with "Norarch" in the creation of a legal person of private law. So we have reached the present situation, so that the government can deal with the pandemic with a criminal policy. This criminal policy begins first of all from the protocols - rubber and huge contradictions: in public transport it does not stick, in the squares it sticks, in co-concerning factories, in business, in supermarkets, in the squares it sticks! Tyres which served businesses so as not to take the necessary health and safety measures at work and have turned large companies into centres of pandemic overtransmission. Protocols - tires in tourism for the benefit of big-time owners and the various tour operator. Protocols - Tyre in transport for the benefit of airlines, for the benefit of shipowners and shipowners in our country. Secondly, it has not proceeded with the armouring of hospitals with permanent staff, with the permanentisation of all contractors, with the necessary equipment and the creation of new METHs necessary to deal with the pandemic to the extent necessary and necessary. It did not proceed with the opening of closed hospitals. On the contrary, what he did, to transfer staff from one hospital to another, to cover some holes creating wells from where he left, to merging clinics, to convert hospitals into a disease at the expense of chronic sufferers at the best of the case. She abandoned primary health care in her destiny. The only thing he put as a front is the vaccine. Of course for the JRC, vaccines are a conquest of science and it's an important weapon, but it's not just enough for you to win the war. We are, of course, a party in favour of universal vaccination and even a universal vaccination that will allow the use of all vaccines authorised worldwide and not just those circulating in our country of the various multinationals. Secondly, a scientific discussion should have been organised in hospitals, at workplaces. The scientific debate is not overtaken by the windows of television broadcasts to overcome any misgivings, any fears. This kind of scientific debate has not taken place anywhere. Thirdly, an individualised approach to everyone if they can also get more vaccines. Those who have a problem with the vaccine would need to carry out tests free of charge, various allergies that cause side effects, and of course the exception from the vaccine would also be clear for health reasons. This vaccination would then have a follow-up dossier of the vaccine itself for as long as required by the doctor of primary health care, recording all symptoms and events, and studying it on a scientific basis. What did it require? This logic required a primary health care everywhere that would operate 24/7 and would certainly dismantle hospitals. What did the government do? The government, of course, with all these contradictions it has in its policy has produced irrationality. Secondly, it has made threats, a punishing approach - those not receiving vaccines, must pay or be suspended if they are nurses, doctors, their relationship to work - by cultivating social automation. Thus, the requirement imposed on nurses and health care staff was, on the one hand, used as an anti-pollution tool to suspend contracts. Secondly, it has also been used as a tool to speed up government health plans, to merge clinically into hospitals, to merge hospitals on a permanent basis and to merge hospitals, as the Prime Minister himself said, it is absurd for there to be two nursing institutions in the same law and at the same time serve public-private partnerships. So you, in essence, New Democracy, SYRIZA, Change Movement and others are with the coexistence of a public and private sector. Coexistence has shown today how "angel" is in the pandemic period, where the public health system has basically collapsed and the private sector has gained its profits. So much consortium can be coexistence, harmonious! So you, with this coexistence, are in the commercialisation of health. We as a JRC are with universality on health access. Health right and good. In this respect, it does not fit in with our logic and a proposal from any private sector. Our rapporteur mentioned the bill in detail. Allow me to refer to the amendment by the Ministry of Finance, which I shall take advantage of, above all. We shall vote against this amendment by the Ministry of Finance as a JRC and vote against it for very specific reasons. This provision concerns an increase of EUR 80 000 per person in the tax on the donation of parental benefits. In other words, in a four - member family if the two parents give to the two children four different parental benefits are about 1.600,000 euros. I don't know about EUR 1,600, but what about EUR 100,000 can an unemployed person transfer something to his child? A day-to-day man can help him buy a skateboard, not a bike? One who is suspended from work, can transfer anything or have any assets? What's that arrangement? Who's he serving? It is obvious that it serves economic oligarchy. That way you say everything can be transferred. This way they can transfer tax-free businesses to their children. The transfer of undertakings is facilitated. The transfer of high-value projects is facilitated. The transfer of high-value real estate, high-value cash. You're making it easier for them to pay tax. So who's benefiting? Financial and budgetary revenue? Is the people's strata that are narrowed by the government's tax policy, by HISA, by the taxes on basic goods, by VAT, served and relieved? Of course not. The many major business groups, the economic oligarchy and are facilitated in the designs they have. From this point of view, therefore, the next provision that effectively abolishes this standard 1% tax on the merger of undertakings makes it easier for business groups to grow. It facilitates the merger of smaller enterprises, hence the growth of capital and its action. To cope with the accuracy, there are two devices. One is for the end of mobile telephony subscribers. You're reducing him for three months - if you have your god! - until December, 12% to 10%. The decrease is only 2%. If you have your god! And are you projecting this as a big tool to deal with accuracy? The other is the creation of the Energy Transfer Fund, the revenue of which will be generated through the trade in greenhouse gases. Who's gonna pay these pollutants? People's mattresses. People's consumers. In other words, you are bleeding at the end of pollutants that have been doubled in recent years in the popular layers to give some crustaceans to those who have consumed as 300 kilowatts. And what do you give them? What are you returning them? Nine euros. Up to 9 euros for 300 pounds. In other words, a minimal amount from the huge increase in electricity. Of course an increase in electricity didn't come down. It was the result of long-term criminal policies in the context of the liberalisation of electricity, the privatisation of PPC, the green transition, which you all accept in natural gas as a transition fuel at the expense of lignite. This is the result of accuracy. What did the JRC propose? He proposed abolishing VAT and excise duty on fuel, energy, telecommunications and water. The answer - a mocking of the government yesterday that rejected the JRC's amendment was that all this is not allowed by the European Union's policy is contrary to the regulations. So, in essence, you confirm that the priority for the government, not only for the current but for any Euromonstrate government, is to serve the policies of the European Union and not to tackle energy poverty that is afflicting the populace a great deal. She's the one you have as a priority. This is what you are serving politically. When we made concrete proposals to you for the loss of the funds that the state budget will have in the face of this abolition, you have mocked them, because they are precisely in conflict with the strategic choices of the current and previous governments. Which one? To pay large business groups, large-scale movable and immovable property, and to abolish 2.5% every year from the state budget for naval spending and naval equipment. Only after the abolition of these five billion that we give every year for naval expenditure would the loss of revenue from both VAT and excise duty be overcome, but also from HNPH, which we say should be abolished for the housing sector of the people's family. Only since the abolition of naval armaments could they have been dealt with. But you are targeted in this direction. Finally, the amendment to restore earthquake-affected populations in Crete seems to us to be inappropriate. We cannot vote as a JRC. Of course, Manolis Synthrakis will speak more in detail, which is from the area. I will confine myself to three points. Firstly, why not directly address the housing needs of all those who came out of their homes? They can't make winter at the scenes. Secondly, because it does not go ahead with the full restoration of 100%, i.e. without discounts, prerogatives and conditions for the damage suffered by the people's households and small and medium-sized enterprises in the region, both for the repair and the construction of their homes and for their professional premises. And thirdly, the immediate and complete restoration of all the infrastructure necessary to enable the region to normalise its operation and life.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u217	Will you take time from the next bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u218	I am done, Mr President, right now. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u219	Be well. We continue with Mr Kegeroglu, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement. We will continue with Mr Papadopoulos, Mrs Christidou, the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr.Adamopoulou, Mr. Thraniotis, Mr. Famelos, Minister, Mr. Xanthos, Mr. Theocharis. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u220	Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me today to speak not only as a Parliamentary spokesman for the Change Movement and Secretary of the Parliamentary Group but also as a Arkalochoritis, who I was born, grew up and experienced the daily labour, problems, difficulties, joys, sorrows, my apologies, my apologies who are simple people, proud, hospitable, people of progress and creation. My memories are always alive and guide me along my way. But we have to say that the murderous earthquake caused ruins. Feelings are mixed when I get out at this step. On the one hand, I need to speak politically. On the other hand, I speak emotionally about my village. It is a place hosting people from internal migration of the previous century, as well as children, young Asian refugees. We're not porphyry-born. We weren't born with the silver spoon in the mouth. This does not mean that we are not persecuted by principles, values, morality. That's what we went on and on. Dreams, despite the debris, exist for a better place for a better society, and that's why I want to talk. There have been the warnings of the entrepreneur four months now, there have been our concerns that have taken the form of strong parliamentary control and not just. Of course, there are things we couldn't do, stop the earthquake, but there are things we could have done and didn't do. The light exception for what could be done and done is the training of students in all schools made by the OSCE, and we did have an organized evacuation. And we must congratulate the OSCE. Unfortunately, there was nothing else. The 6 Richter earthquake on September 27 due to a lack of preparation and preparedness caused more problems. You will have heard that the acceleration of the earthquake was unprecedented for Greek data and even though the number, either 5.8 or 6.1, seems to be not large, the soil, for example, in the area of Arkalochori, retreated by four inches, according to scientists, which is unprecedented for this size. The earthquake was superficial, it was under the urban fabric of Arkalochori. It may not be known to the general public that the Municipality of Minoa - Pedadas is the third largest after Heraklion, in the area of which the new airport is built. He's the third, because we have the tourist area of the Municipality of Hersonissos, etc.. Today we are talking about the settlements affected by about 85% of houses - it seems also from the estimates - that they are inhabitable. Over a thousand four hundred buildings, shops, schools, services are sewed and must be checked in the next period. The ongoing post-seisms - the phenomenon continues - complete the destructive work, because it is from four to more than some. For example, with yesterday's data - today, it will have changed, because numerous workshops are recording damage - from the ninety-five ninety-five houses, which were checked, the seventy-seven-two are considered non-residential, while about a third of the school halls was found to be inappropriate. Similar damages exist to a lesser extent in the Municipality of Arhanas - Asterousia, which also affected these settlements, and, of course, there are problems throughout the region as far as the Municipality of Hersonissos. All those involved, workers, volunteers, employees, elected and ordinary citizens are making a great deal of effort these days. I was with them, and I can pass on their anxiety and their long-time daily offer. Of course, we also have to say that offers from bodies, businesses, people, volunteers, groups and organisations are very important and touching and I would like to say, through my heart, that I am grateful and thankful. Today he has priority - what else could it have been? - support for the affected and homeless both at the level of material provision and at the level of health service coverage, psychological support within a difficult environment, which we are trying to house people many times together, and we also have rules which must also be observed because of the pandemic. It's a lot of trouble. The people affected deserve a decent living and, indeed, in view of the winter that comes. In addition to the apartments and hotels, a large number of houses are required. And I must say that I am not satisfied with the answer I have received today from the Ministry that thirty-three houses are being promoted in the next few days in the region and will be completed by ninety more competitions, that is, a total of twenty-three, because as far as I know, the municipality has asked for four hundred twenty houses. It's a huge difference, and there needs to be an explanation. Either the Ministry lacks the data for the needs or the municipality has given an excessive number. However, both may not apply. There must be cooperation to see what we are going to do. People will stay without a roof these days. Houses and buildings need to be accelerated so that the people affected can claim what they are entitled to - which I will talk about below where the amendment refers - quickly and without bureaucracy and without problems. If the damage assessment has been completed, there will be no problems for which category it belongs or the passion itself will not determine the extent of damage it has. It'll be determined by the tiles. So, this job, if it goes too fast, it'll help. We must, of course, immediately complete the monitoring of public buildings and shops in order to normalise economic and social life, and there must be a smooth supply, operation of shops. On the major issue of schools, it is necessary to work directly, in temporary rooms, in the schools that have been hit, which are inappropriate. And I shall refer again to today's debate with the State Secretary. He does not yet know, as he has told me, how many schools and rooms will have to be covered with houses and rooms to be transferred. That is a problem when we do not know that. These rooms must be sent immediately. Children can't work with teleworking, since most of them don't have a roof. In addition, the educational and learning gap within the pandemic is very large and should not be aggravated even further. The police station has been hit. In order to operate effectively, as well as for the transport service that is there, there should be houses - offices, not abolishing or transporting. It's a matter. The support measures announced by the government and legislated with the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Finance, and when they were announced and seen in the amendment, are in the right direction. However, there must be a broadening of these measures, particularly with regard to the stumbling blocks that are taking place. In no case can measures be adequately dealt with by themselves and I will explain what I mean below. There are ‘grey’ devices and clauses that can cancel the positiveity of the measures. The Minister must clarify today and see it himself on the clause referred to in Article 2(3), namely whether the 80% ceiling on the amount on which the HAVA is calculated relates only to the advance, or whether it relates to housing assistance as a whole. Because if it is about housing, then things will prove very difficult for people. This amount has nothing to do with reality. The area is not in the system of modern objective identification, and so it cannot be done on the basis of this, it will enter from time to time. This cannot be done today. And given that the objective values have increased because of the great work of the airport that is being done, I think there should be no correlation. I'll make it clear. If it relates to the advance payment, there will be no problems and obviously the vote on the amendment will be with 'yes' and with us. Further problems of the same amendment. The fourth paragraph of Article 2, Mr Theocharis, which provides for secondary dwellings for when they are used or leased to third parties, must be completed. It does not, however, provide for the granting of a grant for free of charge or for relatives to be hosted. This is an omission, we'll have confusion. It's got to be completed. I think he can get in with a legal improvement. The designation ‘retired’ cannot be subjective, who will identify it, in what way. He needs clarification. It can be done, of course, with the NSA provided for. There is no provision for the loss of income to professionals, to those who have businesses, who destroy the building they rent. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall also take part in the second reading, Mr President. He takes the compensation, of course - and well he does - the owner to rebuild it. However, he receives compensation only for the goods or technology equipment himself, but he does not receive for the loss of income he will have, because he will not have a professional roof for a considerable period of time. It's a deficit. The amendment refers to three joint ministerial decisions by different ministries in order to implement and they must be adopted immediately, otherwise the procedure will not proceed. In addition, I have found nowhere the provision for a three-year discharge from the HNVO of the quakes. Of course, however, I must say that Secretary-General Vesyropoulos assured me in his communication that he will be bringing it in the next few days. We trust his assurance, because he was also the one who immediately made the ministerial decision to suspend tax obligations for six months as soon as that possibility was available. I do not fail to point out, however, that it was a negative development to abolish the payment of the EUR 600 direct aid. He missed the first week and the second and third, this 600-dollar of people for the things of everyday life they have to deal with. Why was the EUR 600 aid abolished? Is that the problem? There's an advance, the Minister answered me on the housing subscription. It'll be given after twenty days. But in the first few weeks, it's the problem. People have that need. It's not right what happened. We still have a long way to go until there's relief from the wounded. The Municipality of Minoa - Pedadas and the settlements of the Municipality of Archanes - Asterousia need a comprehensive plan and organised reconstruction with a development perspective and the best social, economic and environmental conditions. That was the conclusion from the meeting we had on the second day after the earthquake, with the participation of our President Fofi Gennimata, who came to Arkalochori and we discussed with the relevant bodies. What does that mean? This means that the aid that the state will give for the restoration, reconstruction of a building, a house that has collapsed completely, but for this to be done in the settlements that have no plan, which have alleys of two and two and a half meters, which we have overlap with the other property in the building, cannot be built. There is a need for new backgrounds in these settlements, and this needs to be organised. I proposed to the Prime Minister, when he came, the need for this planning of the whole and, of course, the relocation of certain settlements and of the Rusochori certainly. Rusohoria is a settlement located on the edge of the corridor of the new airport. It is not meant to build new homes with this funding that will be provided - if things are completed as we hope and that this money will be provided - and be at the edge of the airport, where the value of these real estates falls immediately and when we have discussed since the time when the airport entered orbit that this settlement, in any case, must be relocated. So we wait in the next few days for an initiative from the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment. Mr Karagiannis was also responsible for the relocation of the settlement on the spot. If the government does not cooperate and support self-government and local bodies, that is, it does not provide financial and technical assistance, but also legal and institutional, it will not even be possible to issue building permits. If there is no provision for a new background, as I have told you, there will be no result. Even in Arkalochori, which is a modern city, but has an old part where the blow was made, we have pulverized. So now that he has collapsed and is going to issue the license, the mooring cannot be built. We must complete the plan, give him the replacement of the plot elsewhere and go to the new plot to build. That's not done automatically. So there is a signature that still needs to be entered to publish the town plan, not now, seven years now and not in, it is not published. And I don't know why. I don't understand. Seven questions I've asked, and I haven't come to a conclusion why. It's a matter. General Urban Plan Arkalochori. In particular, therefore, the following is needed: Firstly, the special spatial plan with priority for the settlements affected. It is the special peasant that should have been made anyway in the wider area of the airport, in order to determine the uses of land and to prevent unregulated development because of the airport. Now it's imperative. Now he's come from things to be imposed. It's already one of the first ones the Ministry of the Environment has announced. However, it must take account of the new circumstances into account in its standards. That's the difference. Secondly, relocation of the settlements, as I have told you, and in any case of the village of Rosochori, which is the same as the people who are asking for them. Thirdly, the creation of a model village: it is an idea to create a model settlement, in which they can - after being designed and given plots - build up those who will get aid from any settlement and not allow them there for any problem to build. To be able, therefore, within the framework of a model settlement in the spatial area to be studied, to go home to escape the problems created by the settlements without a plan. Direct publication of the Arkalochori Urban Plan - as I told you - and promotion of the Kastelion Plan. Fourth, micro-zonal study of the wider region with the OSCE coordinator. It has already been discussed with the region. Scientific bodies and research institutes must be involved, study the region. We were overtaken by nature by scientists and directly by Mr Lekkas as President of the OSCE, expressing the whole of the scientific community, because the view that there was no earthquake greater than that of 24 July was a unanimous decision of the Committee on Evaluation. So it's not a personal matter. But nature transcends us does not mean that we are not good scientists. It means we didn't have all the data to decide. How do you have the data? If you do this study of the area, see the causes, see how he acted from the first earthquake, from the second to draw conclusions, become a micro-zonal study and take into account constructions. Fifthly, a proposal: they will be invited to take out construction permits. Exempt building permits for homes for reconstruction from any kind of paradox and cost. Sixthly, reducing the energy costs of earthquakes in the wider region for the coming years through the institution, Virtual Net Metering, with project subsidies through the energy communities covering the wider region. This will be a significant help, especially for people with low incomes, who cannot cope with the high energy costs, especially now that they have not just stung, they have escalated. Seventh proposal: the priority inclusion of earthquakes and fire-fighting areas, which we made last year in the new 'I save at home'. These areas should not enter the logic 'whoever has a quicker hand to press the key'. They must go exclusively by priority, with an additional amount, without, of course, being touched on by the plan that is already going to be implemented. Eighth proposal concerning the Municipality of Minoa Pedadas: a provision has been passed in Law 4674/2020, Article 123 in particular, which regulates the issues of the removal of interest and surcharges to the municipalities that comply with the regulations, and the CYR provided for has not yet been adopted. I would ask the Ministers for the Interior and Finance to take this decision finally. And this provision, that amendment, was on a proposal from our own. But it is already a year and a half and has not been implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's ultimate state of affairs has not even been able this time to gain credibility and the confidence of the citizens. And I say it on the bright side. I don't want to say what he failed. I mean what it didn't work out. It didn't work. It was an opportunity. I am not wrong, however, because there have been certain ministers. But there have also been serious absences.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u221	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u222	There is no single policy and, above all, synergy. All right, I don't want to talk about the previous ones. From the "Medea", the coronary, earthquakes, "Jan" and the rest of the way they've been treated and how they're still back. In Damasy the school was inaugurated, but unfortunately there are no developments for the earthquake surrounding the school. So the government has to correct its policy if it has the will. The real needs are still away from the choices made by the government. What I want to say is that we are here and we will be here and not just visitors in our country, next to our fellow citizens who are being tested and experienced by our interventions we want and we will demand that what has been announced and what is necessary and not included in the government's plan so far. Integrated plan for organised reconstruction in the region in order to make progress on reconstruction, rehabilitation of earthquakes and to do so on modern infrastructures and new buildings of modern standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. But you know that as a Parliamentary representative you have also taken protagonists and dentology and tritology! We continue with Mr. Athanasios Papadopoulos from SYRIZA. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u224	It is good to accept the proposals that we have heard just before Mr Kegeroglu, as well as other speakers who update these issues to address all the earthquakes. And I think that, on the government side, concrete answers should be given. Ladies and gentlemen, we also welcome the new donations of the Niarchas Foundation for University Hospitals in Alexandroupolis, Heraklion, Larissa, Ioannina, to improve their equipment at a time when the public health care nurses are under appalling pressure. Many of them in northern Greece and western Greece and the islands are on the verge of collapse. ICUs, pediatric clinics suffocate, surgeries cancel, fail to fulfil on-call in too many hospitals without arbitrary movements. And, overall, there is no satisfactory response to the tasks of hospitals in the national health system when we see the overall work they have to do. The donations of institutions and other donors to the ESS are useful, as the funding of the national health system from the state budget is established at levels below 5% of GDP. It has a huge responsibility, the government that does not take advantage of the global sensitivity to the effects of the pandemic's nightmare crisis in the life of humanity, in order to strengthen the structures of public health, prevention, integrated tracking, primary health care, emergency care, hospitals, emergency departments, ICUs, home hospitality, health rehabilitation. It has a huge responsibility because it has not made better use of the resources of the Recovery Fund for the needs of the national health system, as well as of the European institutions, it is now clear that epidemics, emerging health threats, cancer, cardiovascular diseases, accidents, ageing, climate change, working conditions require a corresponding organisation at the level of health services at European and national level. It has even greater responsibilities because it does not take advantage of the good practices with which other European countries have dealt much better with the second, third and fourth waves of pandemic at the level of integrated tracking and the irreplaceable role of primary health care. Let us remind the examples of Finland, Norway, Iceland, the Czech Republic and certain countries which announce that the pandemic has now ceased to pose a serious threat to the health system, such as Denmark and Portugal, which have reached a level of vaccination without having to force more than 80% of their citizens. The imprudent tragic management of the pandemic by the government is reflected in the number of dead per million inhabitants. We have more than twice as many dead as the European average as 54.11 per million inhabitants as opposed to 15.84 in the European Union and we are the third worst country in deaths after Bulgaria and Ukraine. And the question that concerns all of us and the Government is, of course, exactly what conclusions we draw. What didn't happen well? What could we do well? The extensions made by the bill to the urgent arrangements for dealing with the pandemic are most necessary. However, the government's obsession with PPPs in the laboratory, support services, surgery, primary health care, ignoring the need for public structures and, above all, permanent recruitment of officials from the national health system. Kyriakos Mitsotakis at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition made the New Democracy plan for an uncontrolled invasion of interests in hospitals, for mergers, abolitions, for commercialisation, privatisation of the national health system. And I think the criticism of the JRC that we are all thinking about the national health system with the image of a public-private partnership is wrong for us. Because our logic is the qualitative and integrated response to the needs of the national health system which can be carried out with a complementary role in the private sector, not through partnerships and not by invasion of interests. The urgent arrangements for dealing with the fourth wave of the pandemic had to include a number of issues, as what is being discussed strongly are: 'What would you do better?' And this challenge concerns answers at very specific level: Free prescribing molecular and rapid tests to all - vaccinated and invasive - as defending public health is also a constitutional responsibility of the state, taking additional measures for the safe opening of schools and universities, for public transport, for over-transmission sites, factories, for temples, for church functions. And we have serious issues ahead of us. And Thessalonica, who suffered in the previous wave, is wise to see what we are doing to deal with these issues always in cooperation with the officials of the Church. The supply of monoclonal antibodies and other newer immunomodulating medicinal products that are announced and with studies in Greece for all patients who need them is necessary. We had discussed this in the Committee on European Affairs when we discussed the 'EU' programme. for health.’ The question of a holistic intervention with patents, but also the vaccination of all, as well as refugees, migrants, all those who could become the cause of over-transmission, is a very serious issue and we have seen it in relation to the timely intervention of the European Union and also of Greece in order to obtain a supply of those drugs they actually produce. And it is true that where we were used we see now, as they get official authorisation, that they brought very good results, excellent results when they were used in time and this is done independently of costs. Because many people say 'we'll spend a lot of money'. Is it worth more than human life? To put issues of cost-supplying monoclonals and others? Reinforcement of mobile health units, health centres, local health establishments with family doctors and health groups from nurses, health visitors, social workers, health services network, home hospitals, vaccination of ill, elderly and vulnerable people. Development of medical cooperation and curriculum. Immediate notice of five thousand five hundred permanent posts of the ERC. Right now! Because Mr Mitsotakis announced them - let us not forget it - and at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition for four thousand nurses last year. The government didn't do them. The permanentisation of all the vaccinated subsidiary and contracted fighters of the National Health System at this stage and of all those who have proved themselves, because evaluation criteria have also been introduced - have been tested. We call them all "national health system fighters" and that's what it is. We need to look at this in relation to the use of both unvaccinated and unvaccinated, with strict precautions and the end of suspension of work, because we need them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u225	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u226	I'm hanging up. So we need to look at these issues immediately, to see the immediate establishment of incentives for anestheticists and also for anestheticists, nephewologists, tumorologists, pulmonologists, pediatricians, cytologists, who need them, for infertile regions and atrocities, the bold acceptance of an increase in the remuneration of ERC officials...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u227	Mr. Comrade, please close. You've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u228	I'm closing up with concrete proposals. Also, to see the plan to increase state budget expenditure in 2022 by at least EUR 500 million, to increase health funding in the proposal for the Recovery Fund by EUR 1 million, to strengthen the EEAS so that it can see and increase the operations it finances and reduce expenditure on vulnerable layers in private expenditure, to strengthen the EAFRD, to gradually organise what we want, to the new and integrated NSRs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u229	Mr. Comrade, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u230	And I close with this, which concerns you and everyone who listens.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u231	It's all about us, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u232	What the neoliberal New Democracy's neoliberal government does not do, could make them a strong allied progressive government, which we must prepare for all those who declare the need for alternative progressive governance. Thank you very much, and I hope you got the message too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u233	It's none of my business, because I didn't even know... Do you want to take the floor, Mr. Besyropoulou? I'll give him to you right after. We are now continuing with Mrs Rallia Christidou. Mrs Adamopoulos will then speak, shortly after Mr. Besiropoulos, if he wishes, and then Mr. Famelos, Minister, Mr. Xanthos, Mr. Theocharis and Mr. Syntrakis. Mrs Christidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u234	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the outbreak of pandemic, when you applauded the health workers, if you remember, we said that through such a negative event, such as pandemic, there was perhaps a unique opportunity for the state but also an obligation for your Government to come up even reflexively something good, that is to say, strengthening, modernising the ESS, the National Health System. It became clear in all countries that without national health systems there is no possibility of proper management of the pandemic. Theoretically, you also adopted this logic, this position, since the first lockdown took place precisely for that reason. The world was closed in its homes too simply to give time to strengthen the National Health System. However, two years have passed since the outbreak of the pandemic and the National Health System is weaker than ever. And the only reason for this is your ideological insistence not to strengthen it permanently, efficiently and rewardingly, very simply because you do not want self-sufficient state health structures, you do not want organization, you do not want permanentity, you do not want prospects. You prefer exceptional measures, temporary solutions, by direct assignments, money spent once and for all on the logic of emergency, without leaving a reserve in the system in order to make public-private partnerships. Is this beneficial to the public, in the public interest, for the public health good? Has the logic of pandemic emergency benefited even a little? No, of course, and the COVID numbers that have begun and retracted. It proves it and the recent lockdown in northern Greece, in the Regional Units of Thessaloniki, Kilkis, Halkidiki and Larissa. The disappointing numbers of the vaccinated state the failure of your vaccination programme and the National Health System are in a worse situation than you received two years ago, despite the little money you have spent by direct, opaque assignments. You have chosen to keep the private sector non COVID essentially in the entire pandemic crisis and so far at huge social costs, while in the difficult circumstances the National Health System is left alone, deported by you themselves. Any funds that have to be allocated to people with different justifications should be given to them. You are coming today with a bill that changes the character of a whole donation and in your favourite tactics you are tabling it at midnight Friday to be discussed in committees Monday in order to avoid reactions. What is this legislative initiative for? You get a donation that was made for the benefit of the public over SYRIZA and you modify it to bring the benefits eventually to private individuals. The initial contract of 6 September 2018 of the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation concerned the procurement and subsequent installation of machinery, as well as the creation of radiopharmaceutical plants. The aim was to modernise and upgrade health services provided by the regional hospitals in the country, while decommissioning them from the private sector monopolies. As soon as the new Minister took over, instead of seeing the problems of the National Health System, what did he do? He rushed to amend 4667/2020. You don't care about the resolution of the public health system. You're not interested in fighting for shameful gain. You don't care about the overpriced of radiopharmaceuticals. That's obvious. You continue with your methods of using unacceptable exploitation practices at the expense of public health and insurance funds. Do you know what is missing from all this reasoning you have presented to Parliament over the last few days? The clear evidence of what you claim is missing is missing. It is not possible to harm the public health system, to deny it access to much more economical medicines and to avoid the monopoly. There can be no expensive direct assignments of work because it is allegedly unable to respond to the National Health System. And of course all these decisions are not documented anywhere. And to make something clear: SYRIZA is not against the private initiative, in no case, but not at the expense of the public interest, not without transparency, not without rationalisation, both needs and expenditure. Now let's go to the second place. The provisions in the second part deal with extensions of provisions of an emergency nature, which have been voted on to deal with the pandemic, and there is in them the logic which exists almost everywhere, the logic of clandestineness. Do you want to explain why, after two years of the outbreak of COVID, you continue to insist that you legislate exceptionally, with an extension for another three months, with an extension for another six months? There is no problem with extensions. What happens is that everyone stays in constant precariousness, prisoners of your political attitudes, and there is no relief for the suffering patients, no health prospects, and of course no specific health plan. SYRIZA has long been talking about the re-establishment of the National Health System, has talked about investments in infrastructure, has talked about recruitment of permanent staff, 15 000 recruits, in order to improve services and to have more reserves, precisely for that reason, for emergencies, such as those we now live with COVID. On the other hand, you prefer extensions of contracts of employment, staff movements, suspensions of employment, procurement by way of derogation from existing provisions, the disposal of beds and staff by private individuals, who will of course be privatised, and the examination of samples by private providers. Because you hope that the problems of the ERC will remain and grow, so that convenient excuses will be created to bring more privatisations, that is to say, hospitals will be hospitals of one disease, while "clean" incidents will be promoted, in one way or another, in the private sector. I'm hanging up with this, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the vision of the New Democracy for the Social State does not first see it, we have seen it in schools, we have seen it in higher education institutions, we have seen it in the logic of social welfare, we have seen it in insurance, we have seen it in work, we have seen it everywhere. And what's that vision? It's not visible, it doesn't exist, it doesn't exist. However, cynicism is more pronounced in this case, as we speak of a ministry with a huge social role, especially at this particular juncture, which, having objectively failed to manage the pandemic, with a more recent example of failure to provide adequate vaccination for our fellow citizens and while it has been reconstructed as a whole, precisely because of this failure, the new leadership, instead of doing anything other than doing all of the urgent things that exist, gives a sign of writing in a hurry for PPP. Privatisation may be your favorite answer to every question, but in this dialogue the world has a right of speech, the world that understands and what you are doing to health and how you are trying to frame it. And this world at the first opportunity will give you the answer that it needs to say its last word in the elections, in the next elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, too. Parliamentary Representatives of Mera25 Mr Adamopoulos speak immediately after Mr Thrafaniotis, then Mr Famelos, Minister, Mr Xanthos, Mr Theocharis and Mr Syntrakis. Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President. We are therefore discussing a ratification of a convention today. This is not a new contract. It is essentially an extension of existing measures. We are watching a sad memorial reality. Instead of protecting the public good of health, as is due by the Constitution, it is based on donations, outsourcing, private initiative, private charitable action by individuals, by the oligarchs, whom we of course know it favours, since it is the loved one, to which it provides the well-known privileges. I say that because we are at the threshold of a new pandemic wave. We expect next week's samples to be taken in relation to the impact on viral load of the schools. Because we have heard Mrs. Pagoni on television show expressing a great deal of pessimism about this impact, about the health consequences, and since already some cities in northern Greece have been classified as'red', the four of them, Thessaloniki, Kilkis, Halkidiki and Larissa. They are already under banning local lockdown. We are talking about cities that have a much smaller population than Athens. Thessaloniki features only one quarter of the population, yet it has about 80% of the cases in correspondence with Athens. And here we are talking about contracts, about donations, but we have not really heard the Minister of Health mention a specific plan, about making specific announcements and announcements about strengthening and shielding the National Health System, about the recruitments it will carry out, how it will cover the forty-five thousand gaps that are currently in organic positions, what will be done with intensive care units, how many we have, how many you plan to build, when and how we will reach the European average, what medical equipment you have provided and how we will finally strengthen primary health care. Already in Thessaloniki, we are talking about 90% of totality because I referred to intensive care units. Why, of course, am I saying all this? Because the sanitaries come here and literally beat the government, they are taking down its policy, the management of the pandemic so far, and firstly, they say that the time has come for the restructuring and selling of the National Health System. The government is rapidly preparing, they say, to open the doors of the EHS wide to deserters, but also to satisfy a variety of private interests, which at all times serve the good of public health. It is very important that I do not call it the representatives of the OENGE. Mr. George Sideris, who is a member of the General Council of GENGE, says the following after the Minister of Health's statements in the past few days on a private sector. He says Mr. Sideris: "Although the private sector has shown reluctance to help deal with the pandemic, for Mr. Ploris the private sector can help, especially where there are gaps. Instead - it continues, as we have been told all this time - to oversee the private sector - now they come and compensate him, as I have seen, with the amendment you are bringing today - instead of attacking him, as they were entitled to in crisis situations, they protected him, paid him double compensation, paid back the private sector today, and posted doctors from the National Health System to help the private sector. And that's why? Because all hospitals were converted into hospitals in a disease, in COVID hospitals, so they all left for the private sector, thus also ensuring private sector and clientele, precisely because of this transformation. And this to treasure - it continues - to the detriment of the health and life of the people." All of this shows, not only favor but also a firm orientation to private sector profitability, at the cost of people's lives. With regard to the suspensions, the president of Drama’s hospital doctors points out that the measure of suspension of health was an additional pressure to weaken hospitals more, because they knew very well that no workers would be found to fill the gaps. Has the national health system not been strengthened, and what are we doing now? We come and ask private individuals to donate. The system was not strengthened, as it should have been, and it is obviously political will, because it cannot be said that Mrs Curtevey does not have any money. So many billions are being moved, Recovery Fund, NATO, grants. So it's a political choice when you choose not to aid as much as you need. The ground, of course, continues, Mr. Sideris, since the previous years. Why? Because it is not just public-private partnerships. It's not, it's just mergers, it's just that the EEA itself, the operation of the EEA specializes in a private insurance company. It is also the financial and administrative self-sufficiency of hospitals. It is also the fact - and this is a great deal of attention, of course - that a number of activities are being opened within hospitals themselves, within public health units to doctors, so that doctors themselves operate in private hospitals. And why does he say that? Because, from where we waited, he says, in hospitals to do a surgery for months, now in hospitals, the doctors will schedule it sooner, introduce the afternoon surgery and tell the patient where the surgery costs 3,500 to 5,000 euros, now you'll pay 1,500 euros. The DHS doctor will work and get his private reward. Here, then, how many ways you really have opened the way to privatisation. Impairment, shrinkage of the National Health System, the secondment of doctors to private hospitals, and therefore the secondment of the clientbook by turning the hospitals into COVID only. And the sanitary authorities continue, saying that they had to apply what we said so much in the prevention field as a Mera25 tracking with massive free test and isolated cases in order not to disperse. The second thing that had to be done is to strengthen primary health care, but why? To be done, in addition to tracking, isolation, etc. to take care of medical care, just because that way he would somehow dismantle the hospitals. It wouldn't be the hospitals alone responsible for the care. That is precisely because the primary care was not strengthened and there was a compression in hospitals, their healthcare patients were forced to send home. In the primary health care itself, they say, even pharmacovigilance in relation to vaccination, monitoring and recording of complications. But what do they mean? They require adequate staff, equipment and qualified personnel. Not only was there not enough staff and there was not the proper staff that corresponded to the number of patients, but in one newspaper, they say, there was one doctor and two - three nurses for thirty or fifty people. One doctor, I repeat, and two - three nurses for thirty or for fifty people. What does that mean? That means hypothesis. And what does it mean to be treated? It means that the intensive care units are suffocating, that they are filled, and that is exactly how we got to the point where we arrived, with so many deaths and so many permeated. IM was growing and the staff didn't get there. It wasn't even a staff specialist, precisely why you didn't make sure you were recruited for so long. And now colleagues from New Democracy, who are doctors, are telling us about new intensified treatment units, without new entrants, and that private centers do not find, he says, doctors, when so many doctors from the National Health System, from hospitals, were transferred to private hospitals. All to protect the private sector! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall continue, Mr President. Maybe I need time from my tritology as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u237	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u238	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] As far as the vaccination plan is concerned, I will just talk about the cooking you make in relation to the numbers. I do not consider myself competent, to speak, to urge publicly or to prevent people from injecting. That's why I think only doctors are responsible, just the medical community. Members who are doctors do well and express themselves. I'm not going to do this kind of controversy, but I'm talking in person. I do not consider it to be a moral, legal, because I am also looking at the responsibility I have in relation to what I have said. But I'll tell you about the vaccination plan that you're cooking the numbers. You talk about 70% of vaccinated when only 61% have made the first dose. The Minister comes out and says 'whoever made a dose will do the second'. That means they're fully vaccinated. So it means that anyone who has made the first dose can also get a vaccination certificate, since he considers that the first dose is vaccinated. This shows a lack of seriousness, which is not even consistent with the reports made by the EGE. You play with words. And, of course, it makes sense for the people not to take you seriously, not only with the cooking you are doing, but also with the fact that you are applying bisecting tactics, authoritarian measures, suspensions of contracts for health workers who are not vaccinated, availability, acquisition of consciences for young people with 50 GB and 150 euros. In fact, the question is: How do you expect something to be done with such policies, with such divisive tactics, with such measures of coercion literally? Instead of launching information campaigns, energizing medical devices, the medical community and the representatives of Pharmacology, who are the only ones responsible for persuading the world, how do you proceed to authoritarian measures? Authentic measures, which will escalate even further with the provision you bring to disperse false news in the Criminal Code. News, says, via the Internet, that will compromise public confidence in public health. How will this be judged and how will it be interpreted? What does that mean? Intelligence? Sacrificing the information we don't want to pass? I am going a little further on the subject of treatment because you have brought in an amendment to the monoclonal antibodies. First of all, let me say that I, too, have asked a question for several months on when you intend to bring this treatment. Attributes I tell you that in April I tabled a timely question. The government was deaf and responding completely vaguely and pretextfully, that they are not effective, that they are very costly. He now remembered, after a holiday, while we have thousands of people dead and could have avoided at least half the deaths, as the investigations say - I am not saying it personally - now bring the monoclonal antibodies. The questions which I have to ask you, Madam Secretary, are as follows. Oh, the Minister just came. Firstly, why has Germany provided EUR 400 million from 24 January, and we since February have just been following developments? Incidentally, Minister, because you gave a reply to Mr Polakis in particular, when he spoke about the monoclonals, did you say that the monoclonals of a company were withdrawn?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u239	They were withdrawn, to go to new treatment and go to new treatment, re-approved afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u240	So they're approved, they haven't been revoked.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u241	No one has been approved, everything is at an experimental stage. I'll explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u242	Minister, you'll explain them later. What's that now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u243	All right, Mr. President, he'll explain it later. Excuse me, 'cause I started the dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u244	Keep going, Mrs. Adamopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u245	In any case, I will say what I understood and you can answer. I understand that the monoclonal antibodies of a company have been revoked. What I know is that what Germany had ordered on 24 January has not been withdrawn. So why, while Germany supplied them on 24 January, we are now coming after a holiday and the risk of so many thousands of deaths could be saved? You also stated on a show in SKAI - disprove me if I am wrong - that the committee responsible will choose with strict criteria and protocols where the monoclonal antibodies will be addressed. I'd like you to know exactly what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u246	Read the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u247	I imagine you are not referring to the exclusion of monoclonal antibodies, for example. The invasive ones. I'm asking you that. I want an answer. Because the sanitaries have also been placed vertically against that logic. This is sorting, it is social darninism - if applied, I repeat - and it is another measure of exclusion, coercion and authoritarianism. I would also like to refer to a treatment, a research carried out by the Haematological Clinic at the Papanikolaou Hospital in Thessaloniki. We have an amazing Haematological Clinic. People seem to have spectacular effects with T-lymphocytes, with cancer patients even immunocompromised. This is a very promising effort, which you must support by subsidising, because we understand that you have an allergy, you have a tendency to contempt, rather than even a tendency, to contempt the National Health System, but not to reach the limits of self-esteem when we are dealing with excellent research and not with doctors and all researchers in the private sector again. We're talking about cancer patients. Of course, the Prime Minister himself, who at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, did not come out to make any announcements of recruitment for the support of the National Health System, for health care, for primary care, despite the fact that we are literally in Europe for public health expenditure. On the contrary, we heard about policemen, military officers, we heard about fryers. We heard the government representative say that the police, because they are very well trained and are irreplaceable because of their role, do not have to be vaccinated, as if the sanitary ones were in the shrimps. That is to say, the sanitary workers are very easy to find, and we should make them available for the fact that they are not vaccinated, as if the gaps which we see are being filled. We have here the support of the private sector. I'll finish with two things. One is that there are some publications, I don't know if they are. I would just like the confirmation or denial by the Minister. In some publications, therefore, the resignation of the President of the EGE is expected. Because it is a man traditionally in the Prime Minister's circle of supporters, I would like to ask whether you will accept his resignation or whether you will fight with nails and teeth so that he does not resign. If you do not accept his resignation, it means that he has done his work perfectly. If you accept it, that is a confession of failure on the part of the government, because we are talking about the President of the EGE, so we are talking about a major political issue. And I'm ending with the alarm over the situation in the hospitals of Drama and Kavala. In fact, the colleague from Drama who came up to speak said nothing about the situation in the hospital in his region. The hospitals operate with serious malfunctions. There are very serious risks, and that is because ninety-six people are already on parole. Ninety - six people probably, not ninety - six sanitary, ninety - six on parole. Of these sixty are nurses, the four doctors, the other injured and administrative staff. So there is a traumatizer left to cover the entire hospital and cover the clinic for suspects, Pathology, surgery, and - that's the laughter, where we have arrived - there are complaints from the employee president that the traumatizer in the morning, says, time counts how long it takes to deliver the patient, take the patient away from the time he gets to the CT. We're talking about medieval, inhumane conditions. We're talking about working gutters. And all this because, Minister, there have been no recruitments. We have been talking for a hundred and seventy - six gaps since 2019 received by the government. Fifty recruits have been recruited, in place of 50 people retired, that is, they were not even extra recruitment to further strengthen hospitals. I would like your answer for all of this and tell us what action you intend to take to fill all these gaps, not just in hospitals, in general, in the ESS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u248	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you have taken the time of philosophy, dentology and tritology as a parliamentary representative. Now Mr Emmanuel Thraniotis follows from SYRIZA and immediately Mr Famelos and the Minister. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr President. I hope, if I don't have time, that you allow me to borrow a little bit of a next speech. Let me begin with the catastrophic earthquake that hit Crete, especially the area of the Municipality of Minoa Pediados and point out that priority should be the rapid and complete restoration of the damage suffered by residents, housing and infrastructure. There is no room for gypsies or for auctioning. The sooner and with great care the restoration is done, the better it will be for the inhabitants. Let me also make a reference to the amendment on exemption for parental benefit. Another majority colleague said 'for the first time'. Others said "from the first euro". Others said 'for the majority'. Neither for the first time is duty-free nor a majority is concerned with this amendment. It is known that up to EUR 150,000 the parental benefit is duty-free. It is also known that up to EUR 150,000 real estate states about 85%. If we count on those who do not declare any property, about five hundred thousand, we go up to 87% of Greek citizens who have a fortune of up to 150,000 or have no money at all. So the amendment concerns a 13% rate. That is not the majority of speakers say, however. The present draft law we are debating today, in addition to the articles and the quarterly extensions, which could be termed 'the witness of the drop', the essential part of the bill is another amendment to the donation of the Joint Benefit Foundation 'Stavros Niarchos'. This donation of around 350m euros - as much as the reserves that you left in the state funds as a government in 2015, betting on the 'left parentheses' - initially provided for an investment of 100m euros and the renovation of a single hospital, the 'Annunciation'. After discussions with the then head of the Ministry of Health concluded the signing of the final agreement in 2018 between the President of the Joint Benefit Foundation "Stavros Niarchos" Drakopoulos and the then Prime Minister, the President of SYRIZA, Alexis Tsipras, to reach the final amount mentioned above. But it is true, ladies and gentlemen, that donations cannot replace the state's constitutionally guaranteed obligation to ensure that citizens' health is protected. However, to remind ourselves, this donation came to meet the needs of the public health system, a collapsed system and at a time when the country was unable to cover it, because of the bankruptcy and the severely restrictive measures imposed on health expenditure and a limitation on recruitment. An intake for five departures, which was the result of the policies you implemented at the time. The original agreement, therefore, provided for the supply and installation of PET SCAN medical equipment to the hospitals of Heraklion, Ioannina, Larissa and Alexandroupolis, the production of radiopharmaceuticals in the hospitals of Heraklion, Ioannina, Larissa and Papageorgiou of Thessaloniki, which is now excluded for the sake of private individuals. The majority rapporteur said that this is done with the assent of the institution. With the agreement, obviously, of the Foundation, the new Komotini Hospital was transformed by a legal person governed by public law into a legal person governed by private law, a flagship investment in the area in many respects. However, the increase from EUR 200,000, 000, to EUR 450,000, was agreed at that time to strengthen the public health system. Now deductions made for the sake of individuals. One speaker said that radiopharmaceuticals only concerns one producer in Greece and therefore it is reasonable to protect it. You are now canceling important initiatives, such as those of radiopharmaceutical production, and others that SYRIZA had taken at the time, such as the installation of oxygen production in the various hospitals in the country, including Crete. Five in Crete. Fortunately, we have prevented and installed two units, one in Chania and one in Agios Nikolaos, from the five planned hospitals. Let me note that the installation in Agios Nikolaos, of EUR 200,000, is planned to be amortised in three years, with a profit of about EUR 50,000 per year. Minister, I listened with caution the other day to repeat Mr Mitsotakis' opinion that the donation of the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation is a public-private partnership, i.e. PPP. Really, I'd like you to explain to me what the PPP is. So the Joint-Founded Foundation, the donor, intends to get back money? Does he intend to participate in the board of directors? Or do you mean, for example, the Hersonissos - Neapolitan section on the North Road? Of course, there's also a suspicion here that you're talking about PPP because you're planning, perhaps, after the donation, the private sector enters. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The way of dealing with the problems of workers, however, as shown by the positions of representatives of operators at the hearing, is not the right thing to do. In Lassithi the situation is constantly getting worse, walking from evil to worse. The suspension of non-vaccinated workers has led to exhaustive work of the rest, particularly medical and nursing staff, in breach of the European Works Directive, so that there are unpleasant developments between workers. Group resignations of doctors, unacceptable behaviour of workers, threats and sues between doctors and administration, which is of no benefit to public health. This increases even more the risk of inhibition of qualified personnel, as emphasised in the committee at the hearing of stakeholders, for the health of patients, especially those in need of medical care. It has also been noted in cases of high vaccination rates and in compliance with the protection protocols that solutions can be found. The suspension is the last step, the end of the inability to manage a problem. In Lassithi, too, in all employees, medical, nursing and other personnel, the rate of vaccination is 92%. However, due to subsistence to medical and nursing staff, even the minimum percentage of invasives is causing malfunction, resulting in suspension of medical acts and financial malfunctions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u250	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u251	I shall conclude, Mr President, if I may.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u252	I can't see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u253	The Cardinal Clinic in Agios Nikolaos, where he was awarded by Health Care Business Awards for services in Lassithi Law, was merged with the Pathological Clinic, with the Workers' Association commenting that, unfortunately, the New Democracy's policy of this clinic that won it has turned it into a ghost. It should be noted that the same hospital was awarded in 2019 for its overall health offer. Let me remind you that at that time the government was SYRIZA. Finally, the strengthening of the public health system and free access to it are a priority of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Our programme includes increasing health expenditure from 5% to 7% of GDP to reach the average of the countries of the European Union, wage and labour incentives for workers with a view to decent wages to meet public health needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. You've reached ten minutes, and I don't keep you from the next bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u256	The Minister will take the floor for a minute for some legislative improvements. Immediately after Mr. Famelos. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u257	I am simply putting forward some legislative improvements to this House so that the services can integrate them. I shall say it in my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u258	Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor to place myself on the amendment which has come for the so-called subsidy of electricity costs. First of all, I must say that there is an unacceptable procedure. By way of an amendment from the Ministry of Finance, on the leg literally, without any information, we obviously have to discuss it with operators, with producers or even Members here, without being presented by ministers - even now we are wondering what is coming - a proposal which refers to all of Mr Mitsotakis' alleged communication has come to a ministerial decision. There is one question here: where can we ask questions? Where can they ask questions? Who can answer whether consumption, for example in August, which already comes into accounts, is included or whether consumption in January is included? Where will the money go from? But let's start over. Mr Mitsotakis, then, in the International Exhibition twenty days ago he said: "The Energy Transfer Fund will cover 80% of the increase. Greece is the first country to form it. It will have covered at least 80%', hence, ‘all consumers and three hundred to six hundred KWhs the monthly cost will not exceed EUR 2’. This is what Mr Mitsotakis said in the International Exhibition. Three days later, Mr. Skrekas at a press conference undone and shot down what Mr. Mitsotakis said. So there he said that this whole debate is about EUR 9 a month. And while one would expect that at least this would come today with a description, nor does that come, ladies and gentlemen, today with a description. Note how wrong this government approach is. If you consider that the clause in the case of PPC's consumers is calculated for amounts exceeding EUR 50 at the wholesale price of MWh and take into account that the liquidation price in August reached EUR 122 -70 above EUR 50 - and in September it runs at even higher levels and today October 1st is EUR 168, you can now see what charges we are talking about. This measure cannot give answers to people, to consumers who have a serious problem with their households, as far as electricity costs are concerned. The clause is calculated on the basis of the consumption of the previous month. So the accounts now coming have been calculated on the basis of the average prices in July. Can you imagine what the growth step will be every year, every month? We have calculated that there will be an increase in the burden on the clause from 15% to 25% a month. And here we are talking about a tool which has not been presented, it has not been quantified, and no one has spoken about what months as consumption it is concerned and, obviously, consumers do not know it. With our data available, households with lower consumption will be charged with amounts that will obviously exceed EUR 15 to EUR 20 per month at a rate of 46% in October, while households with average consumption of the increases will reach 57% and the accounts will have an increase of more than EUR 35 per month, not two months. In this amendment that the government has come today, there is nothing to say. It refers to a fund to be set up with resources from pollutant rights, with an administrator that will subsidise low-voltage consumers. Question: Other consumers? For example - and the Deputy Minister for Finance is here - consumers in the agricultural sector? The irrigation network? The municipalities? The municipal water business? The craftsman? Professionals? The bakerys? All of this is not included in it. The result is that the domino of growth, which began much earlier than the rest of Europe, with the responsibility of the government, because it has left the market unregulated and because price manipulation games are being made, will have an impact on the bread up to the water and will limit citizens' access to essential goods due to costs and will lead to a deadlock of professionals and the rural world. But we cannot discuss all this here because they are referred to as a ministerial decision. There is no one to give us answers, nor are the relevant ministers. We do not know what will happen after January. We do not know what will happen with the consumption of August. We do not know how much is being given. And we have to ask where these amounts come from, because there is a commitment from the auctioning of greenhouse gas rights. We're asking where they're going to be, and they're telling us they're not gonna miss anything. So, did the government intend not to use them? These rights are used to save energy, to resilience to climate change, to subsidise renewable energy. If the government says they won't be out of nowhere, he's going to say he was going to do nothing of it. That's obviously not the case. So they'll be gone somewhere. And where does the government use them? It therefore receives revenue from an account for the green transition, for the resilience of society, even for protection and adaptation projects, to subsidise the accuracy. It doesn't interfere with the accuracy. He doesn't manage the market. It does not exploit PPC - and I will therefore say something after that - but it finances the accuracy. And it is very likely that it will create a new deficit in the account of renewable energy sources, as Mr Hatzidakis did with regulations he made at the end of 2019, which led to carpeting, oil and renewable energy sources and who knows where else they will bring us an account. That's the situation. Greece monitors developments in anchoring, stays behind in the energy transition and a new wave of precision comes to threaten consumers. Is that your terrible success? Twenty days after the Prime Minister's announcement, the government does not know how to tell consumers - let SYRIZA - what is it going to do and how will it support consumption right now? And it is obvious that this also affects all small and medium-sized enterprises, all professional sectors and all households. But at the same time you rejected yesterday the amendment we tabled to reduce excise duty, which was a concrete measure, financing on the part of the State and reducing costs, both for heating and for travel, an energy tool. That's what you rejected. However, something similar has been done in Spain, where the government has made the excise duty to the lowest possible extent. But you're entangled in Greece. You're encroaching on the economy and society in a dead end. Because the problem we have today on the energy market is due to the fact that you have led the country to a deficit of energy strategy. For example, desertification has brought consumption towards natural gas, which is imported and very expensive - I mean electricity - and it binds the country with private gas units, while at the same time you have led to a bulb of renewable energy sources, because you have not made the specific spatial framework for RES, because you have not gone through the arrangements for NATURA and because you have frozen the energy communities. So citizens, professionals, industry, tourism and municipalities have no tools to get cheaper in their regions and green, that is, from renewable energy sources. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] At the same time, our country is becoming a champion in energy costs and privatises its energy tools. That's the extreme prodigal! The government's response to the energy crisis and, in fact, it is to sell 100% of the natural gas network, 49% of the electricity distribution network, grant the administration of the Greek oil and assign, privatize by dividing, without revenues, 17% of PPC, by losing the majority on the energy pillar of the country. This is a criminal error, because it grants the property of the Greek people, grants the property of our country and we lose a key tool that would support us both in the transition to green energy and industry and in economic development, but also in the households.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u260	Please, Mr. Colleague, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u261	I shall conclude, Mr President. You are doing all this outside the House, with a process of increasing share capital with serious responsibilities on the board of directors and also on the relevant ministers. That's finally the government's plan. The increases introduced since September 2019 were intended, only, to come today to sell PPC. And the cost has already been paid by Greek society. It was a 500 million increase that the government made in September 2019. And I would remind you that after four and a half years, the SYRIZA government managed not to increase a single euro. That's our difference. We have achieved public control over energy operators and no increase in electricity, and you have made increases and at the same time privatization with many rumours in blue children.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u262	Mr. Colleague, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u263	So, at this time, we remain with one question: will the government finally clarify what the instrument of consumer support is? Because this amendment is handy and, indeed, it is also vacant and with many dangers. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u264	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say something to you to make the procedure. We've come up with some things, and we need to see them. First, the Minister will speak. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Blonde will speak, which I can't change. Then it's Mr. Theocharis speaking. Mr Besiropoulos, if you will, please consult with Mr Theocharis if you will speak before or shortly after that, you must see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u265	I have to talk about the amendments, so that colleagues can be put later on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u266	Minister, I want them to be placed. But I can't leave...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u267	But we had an understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u268	Good. Please, Minister, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor to refer to the two amendments tabled by the Ministry of Finance. The first amendment, number 1089, with a special number of 160, is institutionally energising the support measures of society and the economy announced by the Prime Minister at the 85th Thessaloniki International Exhibition. Kyriakos Mitsotakis is the Prime Minister of the act, the works, the credibility. This is not just an observation of my own, but it is widely reflected in the image that society has of the Prime Minister. Strengthening the political capital of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and our Government after more than two years of government service and at the expense of managing critical and marginal situations is a strong political signal. I understand the difficult position in which the party of Officerial Responsibility has arrived. It is obvious that the government has taken, taken and will continue to take the social measures. Faced with the reductions in taxes that continue and will continue to be our first option when there is a financial area available. Faced with the major diplomatic successes that enhance the geopolitical role and position of the country. I am referring to the defensive and strategic agreement with France, an agreement embraced by all the Greeks and signed by the Government of New Democracy and by the seal of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. This government did not come to make simple management, cut off from the citizens and their problems. It stands next to the citizens, and this is reflected in the content of the amendment, which, as I said, is linked to the measures to support the society and the economy announced by the Prime Minister at the 85th International Exhibition of Thessaloniki. With Article 1 of the amendment, the aim is clear: to facilitate taxpayers' mobility. This objective is served by the legislation on the payment of HPAI for the year 2021 in six equal monthly instalments, while allowing payment of the first and second instalments until the last working day of October 2021. Article 2 activated a primary sector support measure. I am referring to the VAT on animal feedingstuffs, which is falling from 13% to 6%. At the same time, the application of the reduced VAT rate of 13% on transport, coffee and non-alcoholic beverages, as well as on cinemas and the tourist package, is extended until June 2022. Another substantial measure in support of a professional group which has been particularly affected by the effects of the pandemic is the reduction of VAT on gyms and on those dance schools that are not exempted from VAT from 24% to 13% by June 2022. Article 3 of the amendment contains a brave measure of support for the Greek family. I am thinking of increasing the tax rate for donations and parental benefits. The tax is increased to 800,000 euros, and it concerns the transfer by parental provision or donation of any kind of property from each parent to each child, from grandparents or grandchildren to each grandchildren, between spouses or persons who have concluded a cohabitation agreement and from each child to each parent. The same tax-free limit of 800,000 euros applies to financial parental benefits or donations, provided that the transaction is done through financial institutions. Benefits are not only those who have great real estate. I have demonstrated with examples and evidence in the previous period the benefit to the small and medium-sized real estate, which is the main volume of the benefits of this measure. With Article 4, we are going to reduce the rate of capital concentration tax by 50%. Article 5 extends until 30 June the suspension of the charge for pay-TV, which means that the amount of the bills to be paid by subscribers is reduced. I would remind you that this fee amounts to 10% of the monthly account. At the same time, Article 6 reduces the rates of mobile telephony subscribers' fees to 10% from 12% to 20%, depending on the amount of the monthly account, while the fees for young people up to nine years are abolished. It is another positive measure that strengthens and facilitates the access of young people to telecommunications services and at the same time reduces the cost of these services to all citizens. The second amendment by the Ministry of Finance, number 1091 and special number 161, concerns the introduction of support and social assistance measures for those affected by the recent earthquake in Crete, following the Prime Minister's announcements. The first article of the amendment provides for the extension of the arogi.gov.gr platform so that aid for the affected is activated and granted through it, just as it has been for those affected by the fires in the summer. Our aim is to simplify procedures through the use of digital technologies so that support can reach those affected by the recent earthquake. The second article of the amendment refers to the financial aid to be granted directly to the earthquakes. As the Prime Minister himself announced, first aid is provided for housing assistance to owners of professional facilities, homes and other buildings affected by the earthquake. The aid amounts to 3,000 euros up to 14,000 euros, depending on the size of the estimated damage in buildings. I would point out that the final amount of housing aid is fixed and granted by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. I also stress that the application will be submitted electronically to the same platform, and a joint ministerial decision will be adopted by the Ministers for Finance, Development and Investment, Digital Governance and Infrastructure and Transport setting out all relevant details. Article 3 of the amendment provides for first aid to be granted to those who have damaged their homes. The size of the financial support ranges from EUR 2 000 to EUR 6 000, depending on the size of the housing losses. Article 4 provides for financial assistance to help restore damage to equipment and production facilities to businesses and non-profit-making bodies, ranging from EUR 2 000 to EUR 8 000, depending on the size of the losses. The measure includes the farms which have suffered damage. Article 5 deals with cases of false declaration for which the reimbursement of money to the public is foreseen. Article 6 of the amendment makes it clear that first aid to owners of homes, households and businesses are tax-free, unrestricted and unregulated in the hands of the public or third parties, are not subject to any reservation, fee or levy, not bound or offset by certain debts to the tax administration, public and credit institutions. It is also not counted on income limits for the payment of any benefit of a social or prosperous nature. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said yesterday in plenary on the discharge of the earthquakes in Crete by HICP, the following applies: first, in 2021 the exemption from HICP applies in accordance with the general provisions, i.e. on the basis of Article 3 of Law 4223/2013. Secondly, for the years 2022 and 2023, a direct legislative provision is enacted to exempt earthquakes plentiful to HNVY by completing the demarcation of the earthquake of a greedy area by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, namely the total exemption from HNVY will be three years for the years 2021, 2022 and 2023, just as it has been legislated for the other areas affected by an earthquake. Finally, Article 7 of the amendment simplifies the management procedure for fertilisers resulting from the cleaning of water in the context of flooding projects. These load-bearing materials can be used in public works by the local government agencies. Ladies and gentlemen, the content of both amendments must be given cross-party support and consent, as they include measures that benefit the whole of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u270	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u271	Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u272	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr President. On the basis of your position on the amendment, Minister, I would like to ask you something. I have of course tabled the question when I spoke. The second article in paragraph 3 of the amendment, concerning measures in Heraklion, refers to an 80% cap on the amount by which HISPIA is calculated. Does this 80% cap relate only to the advance or to the total amount of assistance? Will it also apply to the total amount of assistance? The second question concerns paragraph 4. You say that for secondary dwellings those which are either used or leased to third parties are included. You have not put those granted to relatives for use, for hospitality, those granted free of charge. This is missing. He can get himself into a law-enforcement system. ‘Useed or leased or granted free of charge’. This is clearly stated in the tax declaration. The third is that there is no measure for professionals, who are not privately owned, but because of the damage they have suffered, they will be left for a long time without income. There's nothing for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u274	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u275	Mr. Femelle, would you like to ask a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u276	Does he want to answer Mr. Kegeroglu first?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u277	No, answer both of them together. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, we have heard your presentation of the amendment by the Ministry of Finance. You referred to the first articles. But, Mr President, we have heard nothing about Articles 7 and 8. We would therefore like you to tell us what the Ministry is about Articles 7 and 8 of the amendment. I'll ask you two questions. They don't need any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u279	I talked about all the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u280	No, you didn't talk about 7 and 8. I'll ask you two questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u281	Tell me which amendment from the two. Tell me the number.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u282	Excuse me. The amendment is 1089. I'll make the question as simple as possible. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment to submit it to the Ministry of Finance. That's why I'm asking the Minister. There's no one else here. So I ask, as far as the Energy Transfer Fund is concerned: which months will it support? So, the consumers for what months will they be reduced? Because you say that this fund is being set up to grant an account subsidy. It is the amendment which is signed and submitted to the Ministry of Finance. In Article 8(3), therefore, it says that it will be credited to the grant accounts. The question, then, is: What months will this subsidy be spent on? What is the amount to which it corresponds as a public charge? What about the extra cost we have described to you will be well above EUR 9 per month for the next few months? That is the question, and thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u283	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u284	I replied to Mr Famello on the amendments concerning the Ministry of Finance and the tax issues. The rest will come to the Minister responsible for answering the amendment. For you, Mr Kegeroglu, 80% is about the deposit alone. It's clear. On the other hand, I was informed by Mr Theocharis, the parliamentary representative. I just got here. We'll see now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u285	I would simply like to address the government, and I would like to say this, because the Bureau is not just giving the floor. There's got to be someone in charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u286	He'll answer us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u287	Mr President, the sitting is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u288	Please, listen to me for a second. I can't say. But there must be someone responsible for answering issues that no one else knows how to answer. This is, I think, an obligation on Parliament. Please, Minister, and Mr Secretary-General, get in touch with us and I hope that the General Secretariat of the Government will also listen to us so that someone can answer questions once the Minister, the State Secretary, says that 'I can't answer them'. That's good. We have time, plenty of time. The process will still take two or three hours. Someone in charge of answering. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u289	Ladies and gentlemen, we have also talked about general health issues in a debate on the Ministry of Health bill. So I will try to talk about what my colleagues have said, so that answers can be given. First of all, there was a very long talk about vaccinations. So for vaccinations, I will tell you what the reality is, which we have said, and because the same debate is constantly reintroduced and whether there is or is not compulsory. The figures, which we have given, are that we are at 61% to 62% with the first dose in the general population and 58%. In the adult population we are over 70%. In the populations over sixty years of age, we are over 80%. And there are areas in the country that, in fact, have less vaccination coverage. And here I am making an appeal and I would like everyone to agree on this part, so that we can give the message, because the evidence is specific: where the vaccination coverage is lower, respectively, there are more cases and, in proportion to them, there is much more illnesses. When we come and say from any step we find that within ICU there are 90% of people coming from unvaccinated adults, that is, 30% of the unvaccinated 90% in ICUs and only 10% are vaccinated and comes from the 70% that are vaccinated. It's a catalyst. So the government succeeded and had a certain vaccination program that had a result, that everyone would be able to make an appointment, go and serve immediately. It has been able to carry out adequacy in vaccines and with this adequacy that anyone who wanted to be vaccinated, except in the first few months, who has been in an overall problem in the European Union. We have also achieved this because we have followed exactly the European Union's programme and have succeeded in building a specific mechanism. It was only health workers who had to be forced to do so in a clear and unequivocal manner. I'm saying it because you're saying whether forcedness has or has not worked. And health workers have also achieved results, because more than 90% of them have been found at the moment. There is no talk of extending any other requirement to say. So the government has tried, with a campaign, and with an excellent vaccination programme, which has enabled anyone who wants to be vaccinated and, at the same time, tried to convince everyone with a clear message. These are the numbers that are constantly and daily we are trying to improve them and give the clear figures. The blurred message was given by others when they left insinuating vaccines or when they considered basically conspiracy theories that for some reason there are some treatments that we do not bring here. And that sounded again today. And I'll start with that to get it over with. You've seen the stimulus I had with Mr. Polakis. He already indicted us and referred to a letter from a particular pharmaceutical company. I asked him to testify where he found that particular pharmaceutical company's letter. In a clear way, we say, to close this issue: as for vaccines, our country followed the same course and for all the treatments that existed. For monoclonal antibodies, we followed the same course. We have entered the European Union programme for supplies. And during this programme, which has been running since February 2021, concrete steps and specific orders have been made, to which we are committed, by three companies which had monoclonal antibodies and there has been a fourth, which has not yet been in the programme. So we followed the course we followed for the vaccines, so that there would be safety. And the particular company that Mr Paulakis referred to in his letter said that in April, there was a withdrawal for one of the two active substances because of effectiveness and they asked for two active substances to be taken together. So there was a dynamic process. So what do you say, and especially when they say it, that's what they're against the vaccines or that they're thinking about the vaccines that they're supposed to be at an experimental stage? You say that we had to take these treatments without having any research use, without having come to a conclusion, to bring them out of the European Union's process. We should choose a process ourselves. And what treatments should we bring? Specific, very few who are. However, now that you are putting the objections to vaccines if they have come quickly, if they have been tested as long as they have to be tested, and they have passed through all the clinical trials and have been tested in billions of people right now, while putting objections over there, on the monoclonal antibodies - which are still in experimental stage - you think this is panacea. So we have taken the right course, and when we finally have the studies, since they remain at an experimental stage - it has not been approved, the approval is expected to be taken at the end of the year by the Coreper, but we now have third-stage therapeutic protocols - we come and say that now, yes, we also bring the legislative framework to introduce them when we consider them to be introduced, on the basis of security again. And I explained to him before that the legislative framework was needed, because either by clinical testing or early access, the companies would have to put the money away, and now we have to take it. So the state's coming in. As far as the second one has been said and I heard it by the Parliamentary spokesperson of Mera25 is concerned, the amendment says what you said, that a body is needed to judge only with the therapeutic need for everyone. Read the amendment. You said here that we will come and exclude someone or someone else. It will be an instrument and it will say: It must be given to these ages. It must be given to those who have a specific problem. Because these are the treatments that are given at the very early stage and must be given to people who will be at risk above and whether they fulfil the conditions based on scientific value. There's no social criterion, if that's what you mean. If you had read the amendment, you wouldn't have to ask. As you see my interviews on the channels, read the amendments tabled. Let's go a little bit further. There was an entire talk about the National Health System and what has happened to the National Health System. You all asked. February 2020 launches nine hundred and forty-three seats in July, eighty-two seats in September, two hundred - two hundred - for IF - in February 2021, nine hundred ninety-nine seats, in September 2021, thirty-four seats. More than three thousand have been declared permanent doctors of more than two thousand are in the system plus two thousand adjuncts. At the same time, there are a total of 12 000 ancillary staff, mainly nurses and other staff, while in the ICU beds - you know that and we have said so - out of the five hundred or fifty who were around, we have reached the thousands of three hundred and, whenever necessary, developed them and have this figure. So this was the effort made by the National Health System, and here we are saying this because it is also related to a part of the amendment that comes, that we are renewing the subsidiary staff and honestly we have told the world that through the notices and the specific moleculosis that will exist, which will be constitutionally tolerated, the world that has been found within the National Health System is also able to become permanent on the basis of the declarations that come out and are dynamic. They keep coming out. Now the notice of the four thousand nursing posts of nurses and nine hundred more posts of other staff will come out. That's what we say they're getting out of the year. So an entire effort was made to support the National Health System and supported the National Health System. I'm not gonna make sense of what happened and what happened. That's not the point of the Minister of Health. The essence of the Minister for Health is to tell you today how these data are available and the great debate that is taking place, because notices come out. Indeed, many notices come out barren because doctors do not go to take the seats, do not care. And the Deputy Minister, Mrs Gaga, is already collecting a framework of incentives specifically to be given, and we believe that we will shortly be ready to present it, so that we really have these positions - which all the Members of Parliament are saying the first thing when you come to the offices is that positions are being proclaimed, but positions, especially on specific points, are not covered - we hope that, with the incentives we will give, we will cover them. The debate on compulsoryity has therefore taken place. We said that the inhibitions made by people due precisely to the weighting between the individual right of choice and public health - there was the only framework in which we entered the mandatory part - were covered by internal worlds, the three-month contracts currently being made and can be for another three months. There was also the possibility of the private sector being covered and we also give the possibility for anyone who is vaccinated to return directly to the system. And now, in this bill, there is an amendment, especially to a speciality that is the biggest problem, which is anesthetics, and on the one hand we give people who are in the National Health System the opportunity to do other on-call units either to work normally with the EUR 250 on-call and, on the other, we ask the private sector to come to do on-call doctors, taking this EUR 250 payment, which is a serious incentive to help the National Health System. This has a broader and interesting debate, both on the contract as a contract that has escaped the meaning of the contract and has to go back to what philosophy each has for the National Health System. You told us here that we were trying to open the door to privatisation. We have a clear position. We believe in the support of the National Health System, and that is why all these moves have been made, which I mentioned, which is a reserve for the National Health System. However, similarly, we have no idea of not seeing the private sector, and many times those who come here talk insultingly to doctors and nurses who have also fought their own private sector. I've heard the Chief of Officer's Response say they were sitting on the private side and working the National Health System. So those who took the incidents that the National Health System could not serve, that is to say, non-COVID incidents, they were taking hearts, they were taking wounds, they were taking wheels, they were all sitting, they weren't doing medical work! The doctors and nurses who were inside the private sector IDs, who were also filled with incidents that the public sector sent, did not do a job! These clinics that entered the ESS on-call system have not done any job! Those who took COVID incidents didn't do a job! Why should we look at them all obsessedly and cannot you understand that in our programme in a clear way we say that the good of health is public and whether we can do this kind of health that is public in order to give it, whether from state structures or from the private sector, we are covering the constitutional obligation? Why does the public have to be competitive with the private sector, and is it not two areas that are complemented and able to operate? And there will certainly be a complete disagreement there, because for us this is a lesson from the pandemic, which showed that the whole country became an entire region of health and we were able to see that we were getting from wherever we wanted the best service, so that we could support the citizens. So let's get out of these ideas. Do not think what you say 'from the back door'. Our positions are clear. What the PPPs and the partnerships and the contribution of the private and public sectors are going to come, and the partnerships will come clearly, because it is something we have told, we tell the Greek people and we believe it. So, for this particular contract, first of all, no one came in to discuss - all the actors were in favour - because the only thing that actually does is preparatory and technical work. Instead of the government doing it, the provider does it. That's what we were talking about. What else has been discussed here about the "Norarch" was about previous contracts which have been debated by a great deal. We're hearing about the radiopharmaceutical monopoly. We also referred to this in committee, and I mentioned: 700 euros was the radio medicine and 700 euros were and for five years SYRIZA was a government and shortly before the elections the negotiations were held, the amount fell and the contract was signed afterwards. And at the moment we are talking about contracts that are much smaller, it is about 300 euros, and now the logic has changed whether or not there is more competition and there are companies and so you get something cheaper. But it was not a matter of today's debate. You put that too. A next very important part of the bill, in addition to the extension of the contract with the "Norarch" to technical studies, was a series of extensions to which we referred. We specifically referred to the extension of subsidiary staff and there are a number of additional extensions that have come. There was a criticism that the bill actually came at the last minute. I have explained this to the committee that the other option would have been for the Ministry to bring into another bill all that we are discussing today with one amendment and not to have taken down the 'Nixon' contract, and then you would reasonably have criticized at the last minute. We have made sure that the bill is tabled, that the amendments come before the debate. The Ministry of Health did not come any amendments during the debate. I have also informed you about the amendments, so that we know exactly what we are talking about today. One point which has been developed, with one great peculiarity I have to say to the committee, is that I have been criticised on both sides. I received from the Greek Solution, both from SYRIZA and Mera25, in a different direction. So this is about the temporary AMCA that we're going to explain. It's possible for more services to issue the temporary AMCA that someone can get. There I accepted the criticism from the Greek Solution that suddenly I want to give temporary AMKA to all illegal immigrants, to stay in the country. On the left, I criticised the fact that I don't give them AMCA to be able to do the services at the National Health System. It is also the next article, which states that these people must be involved in the vaccination programme and must be involved, on the one hand, because it is important for them to be vaccinated, on the other hand, it is important for public health, because these people are here and they must also contribute to the immunity wall. So it is beneficial to them too, it is beneficial to society. And obviously, once someone goes to be vaccinated, if any expulsion is carried out at his expense, he won't go to be vaccinated. Furthermore, if they do not act in this NGO programme, such as the 'Doctors Without Borders', namely reliable NGOs - we are not talking in general and unnecessarily - it will be very difficult to show confidence and go to a vaccination structure. So what did we say? Neither a sudden granting of a favour nor a suspension of the execution of any judicial or other decision or administrative expulsion decisions. All we say is that at the moment the programme is being created and run cannot be implemented. And there, all the non-governmental organisations raised the point that it is a good regulation. They might have wanted more than that. In fact, there has been distrust or - if you like - the criticism that this arrangement is brought by the supposed minister, who has specific positions for both immigration and refugees. And he says: “How can this Minister bring her? There is something else that hides.’ I said that to Mr Blonde, who referred to it. Obviously, we believe, like New Democracy, in the controlled migration flow. From there on, there are issues on which we operate under international law. So these arrangements are right and you must vote on them. And I'll tell you something, because it's good to look for statements, as you're looking for, but at some point we have to come to action, what everyone does when he's in position and judged by what he does in his place. I am telling you this because I have also found another interest, and I would like to see the position of those who have again been judging me for my positions and my perceptions, if what I am asking is right or wrong. I would like those who climb up. It came to my attention the historical blood donor that today shares to give blood to a volunteer blood donor. Listen, why did you rule five years, too. These, of course, have been publications since 1980, but five years will fall into your own mind. Who can't give up blood? First, anyone who has even a homosexual relationship since 1977. This thing - and I ask the left-wing parties and everyone - do you think that this is something that should remain in our papers?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u290	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u291	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u292	But it's still there. I would therefore inform you that on 24 September I sent to the president of the National Blood Center a request from the Minister of Health I myself, where I am referring to it, saying: "In the context of your responsibilities as you directly consider an amendment to the document concerning the historical donor given by volunteer donor bodies in relation to the information of each donor. In particular, as you consider the amendment of phrases, questions and formalities which do not correspond to current social and medical data, so as to ensure proper information and, at the same time, security of the procedure. I would point out, at least in the case of 1 in the information form, that anyone who has a homosexual relationship since 1977 cannot be a donor, who obviously needs a review. In any event, inform me in writing of the actions you have taken or will take in the future.’ And a committee has already been set up to review the forms as a whole - because it has other instruments - in order to have a modern form. What will someone say now? That suddenly he stopped being conservative, like he was? That is not what someone will say, because in such a context - I imagine - those who are here, whatever position they have, whether in cohabitation or whatever, understand that such a phrase cannot exist in such a form. So I come to say to you: you who are progressive towards this government and especially to the particular minister you characterize, what have you done to change this document? Did you do something? Five years you've ruled. I haven't seen - to tell you the truth - nor a question to have been asked about it. Therefore, on rights issues, there are good steps, good claims are, but more important is actions. Each of us has his ideology here. Everyone comes and develops their arguments. When he is in the position of responsibility, however, he is judged on what he has done. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of Parliament, Athanasios BOURAS]] So this bill is a good bill that further strengthens the National Health System with the possibilities with the partnerships with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation and has a number of other possibilities that help our country cope with the pandemic. We have referred to how we have supported the vaccination movement, how much we have supported the National Health System. From there on, there are two - three very positive provisions. We're making the frame for the monoclonal antibodies to come, but we're all set within the legislatures you'll see more therapies. Why would you even read that there are other treatments in clinical trials and pills in particular, so that when these treatments arrive, they can be in a context that can be discussed, joined by early access process. It has been extended for a period in which we will try to see an overall solution to the issue that has arisen, along with the Deputy Minister of State for Ms Gaga. It also has the part that we give private doctors and anesthetics in the public sector the opportunity to pay far better for an on-call to help the system. With these considerations, I believe that at least you should all have voted in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u294	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u295	Why do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u296	I would ask you to give me the floor, because there was a statement from the Minister on my own behalf.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u297	I have not been at the outset, but I trust you and you have the reason to explain what the statement that is causing your intervention is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u298	Thank you very much. First of all, Minister, I do not give you the right to create false impressions, stating that I have not read the amendment. Instead, you didn't hear my question. You haven't even been at the beginning of my position. You came to the end and the time I was talking, you just wrote, you looked at your phone, etc. What I asked is whether it is true that the committee provided for in the amendment will recommend that some of them buy monoclonals and some are excluded, on which criteria will these exclusions become, and whether it is true that those who are vaccinated against those who are not vaccinated will be preferred. You didn't answer any of this. On the other hand, you told me to read the amendment and see that it provides for this committee. I asked why there are reports that say there's going to be a certain sort of sorting. I ask you beforehand, before the committee's suggestion, because it is well known that the pandemic commissions were working on the part of the government and were taking directions that stem from and emanate from your ideas. I'm saying it because you blame us for ideologies too. And to God, answer what I asked you about the hospitals of Kavala and Drama. Let us not just deal with these issues. Because you said nothing about gaps or how they will be covered or what intakes you will make or how you go from now on to cover the gaps that you have created. And I conclude, Mr President, by saying this: if you are proud of your position on 'yes, we will also bring public-private partnerships'! Why are you proud, Minister? About breaking the Constitution? Are you infringing the constitutional obligation of the State to ensure that public health is protected? To shrink public goods and their launderings? Is that why you're proud? And you're legal too! I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u299	Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u300	Typically, not to give rise to misinterpretations. I just read the amendment: ‘(a) By a decision of the Ministry of Health, adopted following an opinion of the National Committee for the Protection of Public Health against COVID -19 on the recommendation of the Committee for the Management of Extreme Public Health Infections by infectious agents, a therapeutic protocol setting out the criteria for the eligibility of patients (indicatively, nursingly, nursingly or not, identification of high-risk groups, stage of progression of the disease), shall be established for any other necessary element. (b) The establishment of a therapeutic protocol takes account of the scientific opinion of the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use of the European Medicines Agency (EMEA).), the current epidemiological and scientific data, the expected efficacy compared to the respective SARS-COV2 mutations and the exhaustion or admissibility of these categories of approved therapies.’; So in this amendment, which I accept you have read - I have no problem with it if it has offended you - do you see anything but purely scientific criteria?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u301	The interpretations are...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u302	They're not interpretations. You said things that have no basis. You said we'd choose to take it from the vaccinated or the non-vaccinated. In the end, you will tell us that we will also give it to social criteria. We had heard at first that only those who have money will take it because the treatments are accurate. So listen. When the people come and take it free of charge and the criteria, instead of the Minister pulling them out, a committee will only take them out on the basis of scientific evidence that these medicines must be given if they can do the job we hope, namely that at the early stage they will deal with the disease. And they will come when we are safe in the context of the studies that have been carried out that they should be given to the citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, Mr. Minister. SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative - Progressive Alliance Mr. Andreas Xanthos
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are slowly closing the debate. The Minister has already shown an apology. We have indeed identified in the Committees the political paradoxicality of a person who has a well-known political route to the extreme right space and at times has expressed extreme racist, xenophobic and intolerance, to recommend measures which at least facilitate the access of refugees, migrants, people without papers living in our country. Obviously there is political correctness and institutional maturity. I hope, in fact, that this is a change in substance. Obviously, this lack of CSR paper in blood donations must also be dealt with by you for resolving it, because it was an unrealisticness from the old ones that had not been corrected. But what is most important, Minister, is that the previous government that failed, did not have time to take this paper out of circulation, with Mr.4368/2016, granted guaranteed access - precisely because it was being relied upon by the authorities of the World Health Organisation for universality and equality in care - and to uninsured citizens, but also to asylum seekers, people living in reception and identification centres and subject to conditions for people who had problems holding legal documents. A huge institutional problem of access to health services has thus been addressed. We also made contributions to the committees, as I said, to the universal vaccination of the child's refugee population. We prevented outbreaks of infectious diseases like measles. We vaccinated the big camps in the major camps, such as in Idomeni, in Moria, etc. So, in fact, we have avoided the refugee problem becoming a public health problem. There was no public health problem, the refugee problem in the previous period, despite the terrible flows we had, because it was precisely these interventions. The subject is no longer just those people having access to vaccines. What about the rest of the health care? We were able to make three European programmes worth 80m euros with excellent absorption, the last of which, namely the 'PHILOS II' programme, expires at the end of December. This included health structures within the camps and hospitals and support for neighbouring public structures in the region, i.e. health centres and hospitals. So there was also an effort to reward the local population, with additional doctors, nurses, midwife, psychologists, etc. I challenged you in committee to tell us what you are doing with this programme. I haven't heard a word from ETA saying. I haven't heard a word from the Department of Health. Who's dealing with these issues? Will the Ministry of Health at last deal with the health of refugees, without which, as the WHO says, there is no protection of public health? That is the crucial question. The picture of the great - because I think this concerns society - as regards the health crisis in Greece is that we are again in a period of precariousness, great insecurity and uncertainty. We have consistently high rates and daily cases recordings. The harsh pandemic indicators, as we say them, have deteriorated dramatically in recent months. They were said before. We are now in Europe's first positions - in a negative way - on the growing trend of cases and on the deaths per million people. Of course, we're very backward now and on the vaccination piece. Nearly ten points are our difference from Europe's average. So it is not a question of judging the technical integrity of a project, Mr Minister, whether or not it was a good thing to support the digital support, the organization of the sites, etc. Evidently a great effort was made and the people of the ESS and the Armed Forces and other competent ministries contributed. The point is that, from the outset, this supposed campaign - an operation - 'ELEVERIA', which, as I have told you many times before, has also given the wrong signal - and this has been realised by society - is that as a vaccinated person I also receive a passport of freedom and then I circulate without restrictions and without other measures to protect individual and public health. This was the wrong message and has extended the climate of distrust and uncertainty that is essential and prevents a large part of society from taking the crucial step to be vaccinated. Of course, this vaccination programme, the otherwise successful and standard throughout Europe, has left 25% of the particular population invasive, specific vulnerability, over sixty years of age, when the corresponding percentage in Europe in these age groups is 95%. So this is a failure and you need to recognise it. We must go to a'restart', to a new strategy, to a more targeted intervention, to regain the groups that stayed behind. We are now talking - and rightly so - about making the third dose for both sanitary and immunocompromised and over sixty years of age. With these hundreds of thousands of those years that have not done a dose, what are we going to do? That is the crucial question. Let us not go again with the easy solution of the people who are willing to be vaccinated, because we will soon see the deadlock again. People will be gathering again in the vaccinated centres now, they will start showing nice footage on televisions, but the structural problem of the system will not have been addressed. You have delayed the case of home vaccination too much. We've told you since the first few months. You have delayed the vaccination of special fragility groups, such as refugees, immigrants, but also the Roma, drug addicts, homeless, prisoners. The percentages in these populations are tragically low. So the record of success begins again, to say so. I think what we really need is health treatment, organised, integrated and serious health care plan. This has had to be done from the beginning. It didn't happen. There was no serious social research that identified problems and explains differences from the country's average in the different regions of the country, in different ages, in different social and professional groups, in different levels of education, in different spatial planning - urban centres, inland and mountain populations. Nothing has happened for all of this to go targeted with another communication strategy and to convince, as other serious organised countries in Europe have done, similar to us, like Portugal - I think Mr Papadopoulos mentioned earlier - which have been very successful in vaccination - 82% fully vaccinated today by the Portuguese - and, of course, the indicators are improving and have nothing to do with our own image and with our daily deaths and all this. So there are huge challenges ahead and, unfortunately, the government seems to be resting, reassuring and taking care of everything is doing well. You've continued the same violin that you've had since the beginning of the pandemic. And always the easy solution, of course, is to transfer responsibility. When something goes wrong, it's youth, it's the irresponsible ones, it's the opposition. We heard it in this Chamber. SYRIZA, Civic Anti-Civilization, says, does sanitary sabotage in the country! He said that, Minister. I don't remember if the Prime Minister himself has said so, but the Minister has said so. These are unacceptable things and show that you have no understanding of what a public health crisis means. You have no idea how these crises are overcome, which require social and political consensus. You have not understood anything from the huge debate that is taking place internationally, which says that we need in the new phase, which is refreshing, we have new strains of mutant more contagiously, a new health strategy that will focus not only on vaccination, which is clearly critical intervention of primary prevention, but also on good epidemiological surveillance and control of dispersion in the community. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall also take my dentistry. It will also place emphasis on pre-private management of cases and not on their exclusive dispensation to hospitals. It will emphasise the critical link of hospitals, which are the emergency departments, clinical infections, clinical CIVIDs, which - I am opening up a short parentheses - must be institutionalised and integrated into hospitals' organisations and must acquire autonomous staff from now on in order to make a real deposit in the system, and, of course, the CIVID ICUs, the medieval care and monitoring departments for Long COVID - this is the great challenge internationally, the reorganisation of the public health services of the country, the decentralised structure of the EGE and its regional organisation, the health of work, environmental health. These are the great challenges he has brought pandemic to the fore. Did you, ladies and gentlemen, hear anything about this? We did, he says, hired and raised the beds at the ITH. Firstly, to raise the intensive beds in a period of global pandemic where all health systems are pressed and in this field there was obviously a delay and it had to be done and well done. Of course it has not been done to the extent that you have said so, that they have more than doubled, etc. Some hundreds have been added - mainly from private donations - to IF beds and to the Salvation and other hospitals - Mrs Gaga knows these very well - but there is, of course, a serious problem of staffing with permanent and, above all, experienced staff. That is the crucial issue. The main issue in general, because we are also discussing private donations in this period and investment in the ERC, equipment, buildings, etc., ladies and gentlemen, it is not just infrastructure. There are financial European instruments that can be used to make a serious intervention there and not need any private donations - welcome too - but above all, we do not use the argument that through PPPs we will solve problems of state failure in building new infrastructure. What is the big issue and the system hurts is human resources. This is the crucial issue. So do you have a human resources strategy in the health system? In our view, no. Your logic is that pandemic is a booro, which must come through and quickly close this loose end, we must overcome this break of forced detainment, in which you moved and go back to the known line that the HSH is wasteful and counterproductive, and we must open it on the market, put it on the private sector culture, give it space for individuals to invest, put insurance, etc. That's your key account. Now, with the new political leadership, this account comes in a clearer and bolder way. Mr Kikilias said repeatedly in the past at every opportunity: "I am a guardian of public care." Mr. Kontozamanis said "the PPPs do not ideologicalize them, a financial instrument is that will help the public health system". Are you saying that, Mr. Pleari? Can you sign up for these locations? Do you consider yourself a custodian of public care, or do you consider yourself a person who will regulate and give space and find balances between the public and private sectors? That is the crucial political question and I think the answer is obvious. You don't have the political will. You never had her. That is why, and when New Democracy took over, until the pandemic in the country, in March 2020, had not done anything in the health system, not a single IF bed had been added, the recruitments we had launched had been frozen. We had a hundred and eighty-five ready-to-do doctors' posts in the EPAs that had been suspended and which were delayed a semester to be appointed because they were in the Minister's office and because of the elections the appointment was suspended. Nothing had happened. You've barely started along with your friendly Pan-Hellenic Medical Association talking about how we'll give privates, PPPs etc. That was the conversation. The pandemic, of course, marginalized this neoliberal line. In my view she removed all the arguments and forced it to be allowed to be allowed to be removed. Now I have the feeling you're trying to bring her back. We have said about extensions. First of all, it is problematic that you give a five-month extension. Typically extensions are sub-chapters of the year. It's six months, annual or more. I think that in any case it is the wrong signal that until 31 March and beyond. You say that in a very strict way in terms of wording. No extension will be granted. Do you think we'll be over with the pandemic by 31 March? I asked you this last year. So this story of the three-month extensions has to end. Put in a regulation that says that as long as the whole world is in pandemic, under the opinion and certification of the World Health Organisation, these conventions will be extended. You cannot allow a leak of human critical potential at the time of the peak health crisis. But unfortunately you did it with the inhibitions. Six to seven thousand people have left. Apart from the social atrocity of finding them without incomes, families of people who have been applauded by now and who have recognized their contribution, the malfunctioning is enormous and it is a disgrace - our rapporteur has pointed this out - that Mr Peachas or Mr Scorchos should go out - I am not sure - and say that we did not go, he says, to the Security Body, because the vacuum would be unpaid. So while the gap in the health system isn't unpaid? Have you been to a hospital at this time, which has suffered a leak of 5%, 10% of its human resources, to see the terrible difficulty and the frustration and pressure of the rest of the shift workers, with the night shifts, with the on-calls, with the on-calls, with the on-calls of those who have left? Have you really gone to see if the health system is prepared in view of the peak of the third wave? And to finish working with the private clinics, if in the next few days, now that the fullness of the IFs in Thessaloniki is 100%, you do not present a plan for the requisition of the major private therapies of central Macedonia and Thessaloniki, a zero exemption, and not some small and medium-sized clinical bankrupts who could not treat anyone, as happened in the second wave, will indeed be criminal irresponsible. We've been telling you now. It must also be done in the Attica basin. It's not possible at the time of battle some people are out of fire. And fires mainly at the peaks of the waves, Minister, are the incidents of COVID, unfortunately. The ESS is downloading rolls for all other incidents, the private sector is making money and the world is currently systematically paying a lot of money from its pocket and making the necessary diagnostic checks because it is precisely because you have chosen not to prescribe and compensate EOPY, with clinical and epidemiological criteria, the necessary diagnostic tests.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u305	Finish, Mr. Xanthi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u306	I shall conclude and thank you. First of all, it is important for us to build a strong social and political front between health workers, patient associations, local communities, progressive forces, to defend the public health system and to demand its quality upgrade and reorganisation based on the new needs of the pandemic that have come to the fore. That's the one. And the second is this. Because it always comes to these discussions, "and where will the money be found?" and if we have the budgetary margins to upgrade the medical wage, to motivate the barren regions and the barren specialties, which are not only anesthesiology, and to retain the Brain drain, to keep young doctors in Greece - you give incentives for young people, but for young doctors, for young health professionals, for young scientists, you do not say anything - if the debate on where the money is to be found starts, I will give you beyond the financial frameworks, which have been relaxed and the primary surpluses that are not respected, and the financial committee that is not there, and another argument. As in the public debate in the country at this time, it has not been asked by anyone or very few - it is very minority - where the money will be found to get our country freshmen and Rafale, so in my opinion we should not ask the question of where the money will be found to hire doctors and nurses, reward them decently and invest in the public health system, to prove that we have understood the need for his armour and the need for decent care for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u307	And we thank Mr. Blonde. Now the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Gaga, is taking the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u308	Minister, I'm really sorry I have to leave, but I'm gonna miss my flight.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u309	There's no matter. I would like to say a few words as a doctor who has been working in the National Health System for thirty years, which I have been in pain and which I clearly want to see going well. As you know, in medicine we do six years of basic studies and do them for free, pays the Greek public. And when we say "the Greek public" we mean the taxes we all pay. The money's not coming out of the trees. The money is what we all produce working. So we've been studying our doctors for six years, and then we're telling them: submit someplace to do specialty. And I'm not talking about now, I'm talking about the years I'm in the profession, I never remember planning for specialties. I never remember any specific, comprehensive education plan. And now we say 'Why do we not have anesthetics?'. We don't have anesthetics because all these years we haven't thought about making an anaesthetics and there's a system like the Army: I want so many orthopaedics, I want so many surgeons, I want so many ORLs, I want so many pathologists, we want to say as Greek state that we want these doctors. We study people to become doctors, we are very pleased that they are doctors, we do so because we want them to be doctors, we want to study them, but we also want health services for all Greeks. So one thing is we have to organize. The organization of health and education does not take place from one month to the next. To be an anaesthetic, it takes five years. So I do not remember the past five or ten years to say "they will become anestheticists" or "these are the Anesthetic positions, these are the posts of Dermatology, these are the posts of Pathology". We're doing it now. We've already made a plan with the ERCD on what education will be like after medicine. We'll be here and you'll see. So the plan is there. There's nothing going on from day one to day, as you understand, especially in medicine that studies are twelve, fifteen years, somewhere there. So there is a plan for integration into skills and staff, but at the moment we need to see how we operate with this staff in conditions that are completely different. Because I've spent the last 30 years working on what we've spent the last year and a half, I don't remember. And we have actually worked a lot longer, and the system at the moment really wants a lot more personal than I hope it will be in two years or two or what it wanted two years ago. The second thing I want you to remember, because we are making a lot of opposition to the public system and the private system, is that Greece has the largest private sector in Europe and has it with all the governments. We have about 50% of health costs in the private sector. It's not bad. It's bad to put on labels. It's bad to tell doctors who have done the same studies, who have done the same work, that your signature isn't good and mine is. I never believed either a young curator I had or a university student that I should rewrite my colleague's prescription at the IKA because his recipe doesn't count and my own counts. So there are pathogens in the system, which we clearly need to change. There is an evaluation of every operation that we do either in the private sector or in the public sector. And here in the House we have a lot of doctors working in the private sector. They're no less good doctors. So I think that's what we need to remember, open-minded and together, we need to move on to a better system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u310	We thank the Minister, too. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr. Harris Theocharis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u311	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for some reason, tones were brought up to a draft law which we should all have been much more consensual with, because if we take a piece, its predictions, its articles, I am not sure we will disagree with, and that is why it is very interesting to hear - because we did not hear it during the debates - what articles you will vote on and what is not. Because I'm very afraid that today we're very bad for nothing that Shakespeare would say. You are shouting, trying to create ideological differences or anything else and ultimately most of these articles should be voted on. I'll talk 'cause I believe this thing as much as I can consensually.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u312	If people are to lose their jobs, they mean...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u313	Well, of course. I'm glad you agree with me that you will finally vote on the articles...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u314	Wait till you see.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u315	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u316	...and all that fuss we hear, the tone lifting doesn't understand why it's happening. After all, we are discussing a clear bill today, and I think it is not a complex bill. But let's say, starting with I said that I would speak more thoroughly about the pieces of the bill - and let's put the ideological ones on the table if you want differences. Because we are not talking today about whether we want a private sector, if we want a public sector. In fact, we have differences there, ideological and substantive. Because we are talking about the so-called 'new public', just as the bibliography of administrative methods and, in particular, the bibliography of the methods of public administration. Because the new public is being assessed, without hiding its failure, in order to correct it, the new public is working with the private sector but also with the citizens, who are treated with respect and with the availability of cooperation, the new public is energising civil society so that with more resources it can bring more results. Moreover, the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation is not a private sector, it is civil society. Mr Papadopoulos has said that we are not talking about cooperation in the public and private sectors. So all these fanatics have nothing to do with this bill. The public, as you see it, is what is being delayed and justified, which is perhaps politicizing, but which does not produce. It does not work for the benefit of the citizens. So you keep your ideas, but you will allow us to keep ours. This bill really moves in this particular direction. So let's see very simply, very specifically, with data, with arguments, what he's doing. First of all, I will begin with the amendments by the Ministry of Finance, which finally bring the promises of the Prime Minister to the IGC within twenty days. We are talking about parental benefits, about lowering capital taxes, etc. I think you know them, all the Greek people know these announcements and you see that the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is the government that announces and implements exactly what it says. Indeed, this money does not come from overtaxation, but comes from success, from the over-result of growth, which naturally came from the very important, very substantial success of tourism this year. This success even came after a specific project, aiming, in a professional capacity, at a very coordinated effort in the private and public sectors. Again this cooperation is in the center and brought our country to be a global model. These benefits have been promised by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis that he will return them to the citizens. This is our commitment and we keep it. It has now been raised by Mr Famello and the issue of this fund. Obviously its details will be defined by ministerial decisions and also by the fact that the fund is not exactly defined because the government, even now, will examine all budgetary margins and all the data of price increases, so as to strengthen the latest euro that has the budgetary capacity to support households. That is why we do not have the final amount today to run out of the last euro, as I have said, of these budgetary margins. Of course, Mr Famellos also made a criticism of PPC, and I think it is a bit of a shame to discuss and shake the finger for PPC, which you have led to the lip of destruction. And you're telling us that we're giving 17% now and we're not getting any money. Because that is what you agreed to, you agreed to privatise this 17%. And what does the government do? Why the privatisation of 17% what would he do? It would leave PPC a protagonist in the old ways of producing energy and would have no development programme in renewable energy sources. While the government is now strengthening PPC and making it a protagonist of the next day of energy production. Because it will have the necessary funds so that it can be a protagonist on the next day of our country. That is, in fact, the government's policy in this area too. What else does this bill do? He's bringing in a contract. You told us about the PPP, etc. It brings a contract, which changes in very specific respects. I would say, Minister, that the changes that this amendment to the convention brings are self-evident and you should follow it as a model and to subsequent conventions that you may bring. Because the right thing is the work that the Stavros Niarchos Foundation wants to offer to the Greek public to complete it, not to have any dependence on the CCTP, on public service, on signatures to the right and on the left, and to hand it over much faster, as it will be delivered in two years instead of five, for the maintenance and operation of the CCTB, so that we know that without fragmentation it will work. Because we have seen the work of implementing supplies, which sit and sprinkle and do not work, precisely because this work is fragmented. This is the real model that should have had these kinds of contracts from the outset, complete, delivered and then operated. And that, if you like, brings us to the debate Mr Xanthos opened on the privatisation of the public sector. The Minister said so before, too, Mr. Ploris. What's the public good? It is citizens' access to health, free access to health or a small participation, a reasonable cost which does not create an exclusion from this access. This must be ensured and ensured not only by health ministers, but also by the entire government and the entire New Democracy Parliamentary Group are the guardians of public health. However, whether the ERC receives services or receives products from the private sector, this is a matter of organising and operating the ERC itself. So, where does this result go? And the pens used must be produced in public factories? Shouldn't he be able to get services to paint his buildings? Do the civil servants have to paint them? Is it considered that it is a public health system, or whether it is provided to the last Greek citizen? That's what New Democracy says, and that's where we are. This really is a difference that the last Greek citizen has to understand. Now, by bringing a contract that changes the minimum, you are making a criticism of the previous amendment to the February 2020 Convention. Are we now discussing the issue of the regulation of February 2020, whether the radioisotopes should be produced or bought? Is that the subject of the conversation? And this is a dynamic issue. Because at the price you bought at EUR 700 we really had to produce it, it would be cheaper. But with the honor of buying the health system now, about 330 euros, it is better to buy them. And if the conditions change tomorrow for whatever reason, of course, the Minister of Health will go to negotiate to build production units in hospitals and produce the drugs. Instead of being accountable for buying at these prices for so long, you've been telling us that we've been selling me or not. We are talking in the second part of the House about another part of the arrangements, for which I do not understand exactly where the disagreement lies. We are bringing regulations that have already been passed and which are in place and which we are prolonging, so that they will be in place until a reasonable time, which we think is still the pandemic in our country. If a new extension is needed at some point, there will be a new extension. There is a possibility that we may have pandemics and do not continue these exceptional procedures, whether they are called recruitment procedures or called distribution procedures for drugs to vulnerable groups, etc. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I will of course also take the time of my dentistry and tritology. If there is one issue, then it would be to tell us which of these provisions failed or why. In fact these provisions strengthened the National Health System - Mr Xanthos said so - and in this way all the arguments in favour of the privatisation of the National Health System were rejected. So you actually agree with these provisions, because they strengthened the health system. So they must be extended for as long as they need. And if some of them are actually essential provisions that must remain more permanent, with appropriate changes I am sure the health system will bring them. So, there, at that point, I don't see where the disagreement is. There is a next piece of provisions that are very interesting and very important from Article 29 onwards, which I think is also in the whole debate on right-wing, conservative, neo-conservative, neo-liberalism and everything else. It improves the procedures for the issue of the temporary AMCA and the certificates with more structures, structures which will enable and the vulnerable to complete these necessary procedures and will effectively incorporate these social groups into the procedures necessary to deal with the pandemic. It is also necessary for vulnerable and other groups. I will give it here - I am sure Mr Plearis does not know that because he did not live it - the following evidence. In the summer we had problems and worked together as much as we could on vaccination, because we had citizens of third countries in our country, representatives of travel agencies abroad, Russia, Britain, Germany, France and other countries, who stay and remain with permits to stay and work in our country for six or eight months, as long as the entire period lasts, and were unable to be vaccinated in their country. So they had to take AMKA so they could be vaccinated, and that had many malfunctions, because they could not complete the JEPs in the right way. So you're coming - and I would have told you that the Ministry of Health should have come earlier - to bring this kind of provision. So, of course, vaccination in vulnerable social groups and third parties, without any fear of moving procedures in the event of any irregularity with their papers. We should not just agree on that, but we should all vote on it with the right and left hand. So I do not see either why there is disagreement here and all I have heard is: 'How is it possible for the Minister for Health to bring it with his ideological conception?' The New Democracy is the party that united the two major social movements of the Right and the Centre, the centre-right party, and you see that here, at this point, there is a conservation that empathies and a centre that does not judge and embrace diversity. They are meeting here, and I hope that these provisions will also meet with you. And here you will have to answer, not to me, but to the Greek people. Two words now about the rest of the criticism, because, as I think - I have proved, the bill itself should be a consensual bill, we should finish too quickly, because you should agree on everything. You disagree only to disagree. Two words, therefore, for other kinds of criticism that has been heard, particularly in relation to the pandemic, as to whether management is good, whether vaccination should go faster or not. The management of the pandemic is a dynamic process. Our country, whether you like it or not, as much as you do - in tourism, in its opening, and now that we have become a global model of economic and tourism opening and managing the pandemic, you are twice as accountable for this reaction that you have had - has managed to cope with, in any case, with an adequate and better way than the average of most European countries in this pandemic. The National Health System did not collapse, as it collapsed in countries with much better and stronger health systems. In our country it didn't collapse. The measures we take will be dynamically, will be changed from region to region, depending on the data. That is what we have done and that is what we must continue to do. However, with the progress of the vaccinations - the numbers are specifically by the Minister - with the strengthening of health structures, which can be further strengthened - we saw it in previous waves - the pandemic is relatively controlled. It is not going to grow, barely in the last few weeks, and it has also been stabilizing and rather a slight drop downwards. However, it is true that there is a wider fatigue due to the multiple protocols and that is why it is time to simplify measures so that they are more understandable and more easily applied. I am sure that the government which has so far shown extremely reflexive since the pandemic principle will do so soon as we are slowly moving towards the end of this pandemic. That is what we want to believe, if there are no other developments, health, mutations, etc. Now, as far as the vaccines are concerned, the fact that we had an impeccable organized system is said by everyone. There's the question of resistance or people who don't want to make a vaccine. The government has taken multiple action in many fields, so that it can help the world and make it easier to get the vaccine, because sometimes even convenience plays its role at the statistical level, but also to try to convince citizens as much as possible to be vaccinated, because that is really the safest thing for them. The question, of course, is what did Dedicated Opposition do particularly, what was its attitude? When the government campaigned to convince the world, it was accused of struggling, as if the media did not have to be informed, the media had to be informed by other means that they did not inform. When he motivated - even today we heard it - they were talking about buying out consciences. And that's wrong! When he did the obligation, he invented optional compulsoryity and even today Mr. Xanthos, who is usually measured, says no to parole. The measure of compulsoryity has worked. Do you know why it worked? Because he convinced Mr. Polakis to have a vaccine. That's all it was worth! Since I mentioned Mr. Polakis, would you help the campaign with your example? Did you speed up telling every citizen that he should be vaccinated? Oh, no. Facebook: Why should we not be vaccinated, because vaccines are still experimental and I don't know what else. Nor in this example have you helped and you have come to support with your vote, even those who are illegal, giving false certificates.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u317	Shame on you! It's a disgrace to what you're saying now!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u318	Even that you didn't vote for. Even that, the most obvious thing you didn't vote for.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u319	You're a liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u320	Too bad, because it would be an opportunity to sign up to the right side of the story. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In two words, Mr Paulakis referred to the monoclonals and gave some figures. I'm rounding them now. Fifty-five thousand cases of more than sixty-five years since the beginning of the year and nine thousand deaths, and if we had only twenty-five thousand monoclonals, we would have saved six and a half thousand of these deaths, because they have 70% effectiveness. It's all wrong. And they're wrong for two reasons. They're wrong, because monoclonals don't work, when symptoms have gone too far, you have to give them early, which means you have to give them to everyone, and to the fifty-five thousand to get out of here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u321	Mercy! What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u322	I'm stopping and finishing. In any case, it is wrong and it is simply populism to give such evidence, in any case. I will conclude by saying that even when you blame us for neoliberalism and neo-conservatism, you confess that we are bringing the new into this category at least. Unfortunately, we see old-fashioned and old-fashionedism in all that we have heard. The Greek people are a little interested, I assure you. That's why I don't want to highlight them. What concerns citizens is their problems and the solutions, and unfortunately you do not seem to suggest realistic solutions or even understand the problems. That is why the announced collapse of the New Democracy - you told us at the IGC - does not appear in any poll, which is why you are not asking for elections. Things are clearly like sunlight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u323	We are also grateful to Mr Theocharis. He has the floor now, after he has been treated sanitarily, the MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Syntrakis. Here you go, Mr. Synchronous.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u324	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall refer to the amendment tabled by the Government to provide state aid for tackling the consequences of the earthquake in Crete. First of all, we express our sincere condolences to the family of the unfortunate short-sighted James Jagarakis who died in work. Fortunately, we have not mourned more victims. If the earthquake was in bed hours with this intensity and with this certain acceleration of gravity, we would certainly speak of an unspeakable tragedy with too many dead. Ladies and gentlemen, the images from Crete are shocking. The reality cannot be described in words. Huge material damage to dozens of villages of the Municipalities Minoa Pedias and Arhana Asterousias, in the town of Arkalochori, in houses, school buildings, professional roofs, public and private infrastructure, churches, tents, roads, bridges and everything else you can imagine. Whole families, biopapalesced people have seen the troubles of life turned into ruins. They were found out from one moment to the other, as well as the migrant land workers. In short, bombed landscape, the situation for earthquakes is deteriorating, the inhabitants are despairing, while the weather in the area is getting worse. Rain starts. The earthquake left its print throughout the regional unit of Heraklion to the Lassithi plateau. The minds of everyone goes to Heraklion city - hold this - a city of a hundred and fifty thousand inhabitants who are alone a time bomb, with forty thousand arbitrarily. It's a city with important open residential issues. We warn you: Take responsibility. This mess has been shaped by all those who have ruled this place over time. You played micro-party games with the people to have it in hand instead of making the necessary expansions of cities, to build people legally, with design and quality materials. The East Crete TEI says in a recent study that only in the old city of Heraklion has more than seven hundred buildings considered dangerous. The Prime Minister, coming to Arkalochori, had the courage to move the finger to the thousands affected by giving them responsibility for how these areas were structured. Shame on you. His promise that Arkalochori will be rebuilt from the start is not a fireplace. We do not adopt this view as a Communist Party of Greece. The government is simply taking the opportunity, the reconstruction of Arkalochori is part of the overall investment plan of the region, the change of land use based on the new airport. The business groups will benefit from this case and will accelerate the devastation of the region. So, what is the common cause of these disasters from the earthquakes we have experienced? It is the criminal absence of anti-Semitism, anti-military, anti-military armouring over time of all governments. 75% of structured buildings built before '85 remain uncontrolled, such as schools, hospitals, health centres, other public infrastructure, with tragic consequences for the people. The 5.8 rollers have surfaced in the most tragic way that the people are immune to natural phenomena. There is no integrated earthquake plan, prevention measures, funding and implementation of projects to cover immediate, short-term, long-term needs of seismic pilots. There is no preparation and training of the population by exercises, provision of open pools and much more. All governments avoid prevention and anti-Semitism, anti-military, anti-military protection, because they have costs. They systematically hide that they are not a priority, because they are not eligible by the European Union because they do not leave the percentage of profit that business groups want. That is, human life is entering the cost-benefit balance. However, even if they are selected, there are grim compensation with cutters and conditions, with great delays and instalments to disbursement to those who, of course, manage to pass all these obstacles to bureaucracy. First of all, the amendment does not cover all those affected. It covers the affected - and I will say below - the earthquake of 27 September. It makes no mention of the earthquake of July 24 in the same region, the result of the same seismic phenomenon. The question is why the people affected on 24 July do not join these provisions of this amendment. The state aid measures you have put forward, in our view, are inadequate, so we are voting'residents'. We are not voting in favour, we are not voting in favour. We are voting 'at present' precisely because it is inadequate. Many provisions have traps which do not ensure or make it difficult to compensate those affected for 100% of the damage to houses that are completely damaged, professional roofs and equipment. There is also negative experience from Lesvos and Elassona. Question: Are you sure that housing assistance with 80% grant and 20% interest-free loan, regardless of the geographical data of the area, will be attributed to the entire area? We are asking this because the treatment of forecasts of threatened damage remains unclear. There is the example of the Municipality of Platania Chania that the 80 % housing assistance plus 20% for flooders went for a walk, since they cannot issue permission due to the geological studies that forbid it. Let's go down. State mechanism. Existing or nonexistent? There's only communications. A self-selling combination with rags. Steady poles in camera flashes, TV cameras. And yet, if it were not for solidarity, the voluntary offer of the ordinary world, social actors and trade unions, would not be a leaf. Otherwise, the king is naked. For four months of intense seismic activity in the area, then recorded as a hundred six non-residential buildings of seventy - five, the government refused to declare the Municipality of Minoa Pedias in an emergency. Our party had submitted reports and questions, calling on the government to take immediate measures to relieve residents, to compensate them, to prevent a possible major earthquake. Nothing. We met walls and indifference. You described, gentlemen of the government, damages as mere cracks and natural damage. But nature in the meantime warned. He was telling you: Take measures of earthquake protection here and now. You forged indifferently. But neither Niagaras launders you nor the set-up television cameras and communications tricks. Whatever you do, it is not possible to hide this size of disaster or the nakedness of the state mechanism and the criminal responsibilities of all governments over time, when at the same time and in no time you give billions to the green large-scale investors, the military naval equipment and the wells. Meanwhile, more than three 24 hours have passed than the powerful earthquake and the world is still in the tents. State mechanism and coordination of non-existent. They are also looking for housewives to house firefighters to provide basic means of living and health care. There is a lack of employees in municipalities, district, Ministries, engineers, town planners, technicians to make a direct record of damage to all settlements to provide first aid in feeding, housing, health care, material supply. Personal incomplete to non-existent. The fewer personnel who exist accept incredible physical and mental fatigue. Wake up with overtime and exhausting hours to run the checks. In any case, the government consciously refuses to concentrate on what the JRC considers necessary and relates to all the people affected by both earthquakes. Direct measures to protect the safety and safety of residents and workers from the damage caused by the earthquake, but also from the dangers posed by strong metastases and are still under way. In informing residents of their safe distribution to the necessary infrastructures. They have to leave the scenes immediately, they had to meet the request of the Municipality of Minoa to grant four hundred twenty prefabricated houses for their temporary relocation until the reconstruction of their homes. Enhanced health centres, regional hospitals and "Help at Home" with additional permanent staff to deal with health and protection issues from the pandemic of the homeless, the afflicted residents. Keep all health protocols and special care for elderly and vulnerable groups. Ensure that workers do not work in the workplace for as long as civil protection calls on residents to stay out of residence. Accelerate the recording of losses by reinforced auditor steps and direct recruitment of additional staff. To provide rapid compensation for damages and 100% compensation for those who have suffered damages, without being excluded because of bureaucratic and legal interpretations, without being charged at the cost of offenders. Moreover, there should be human living conditions for those who remain outside their homes and, at the same time, immediate measures to prevent earthquake shielding and protection. If, finally, the residents, in our view, do not take the case in their hands, the state is not going to cover these losses. Only the people can finally save the people, in association with the JRC. The organisation of the struggle, practical solidarity, the claim of real relief and rehabilitation measures, as well as protection from phenomena that will certainly happen along the way, is important now. In this case our forces, the JRC, are at the forefront of this case, have been in the front line since the first moment of the earthquakes, as we will do in the future, whenever necessary, to defend popular interests. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u325	And we thank Mr. Synergy. They will now take the floor to colleagues who are in the Webex process. The first is the Member of Parliament from New Democracy, Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas. Please to everyone, because you don't hear the bell, put the clock next to you, so you can see the time of seven minutes. Mr. Yoyaka, can you hear us?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u326	I can hear you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u327	You have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u328	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, from the debates, today and the previous days, there seems to be no serious objections to the substance of the bill. And because this bill is not available for opposition crowns, the debate has been extended to more general issues of the health system, such as personnel needs. Needs always exist, there are, and there will be. However, we must recognise that an important effort has been made to strengthen the human resources of the ERC. Over four thousand permanent and subsidiary posts have been covered in the last two years and two notices have been announced for four thousand nursing staff and nine hundred other staff posts. We must add to this the renewal of four thousand contractors, through an OAS programme. It is indicative that during the last two years in Thesprotia, fifteen permanent posts of doctors were covered in critical specialities, as well as dozens of auxiliary staff, doctors, nurses and other specialists. It was designed and operated for the first time by the care unit at the General Hospital of Philiattes, well equipped, in the standards of intensive care units. An EKAV station is being set up in the hospital, while the setting up of a mental health facility for adults with the new ESRB has been approved. And as he said, Minister, and I repeat on every occasion, it is an effort that is continuing. A significant part of the aid, both to people, as well as to equipment and infrastructure, came to stay. This applies to the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for the supply and installation of PET/CT medical equipment at the University Hospitals of Heraklion, Ioannina, Larissa and Alexandroupolis. Along with the structure of the remaining buildings and other infrastructures, four major hospitals serving the citizens of the wider region are being upgraded and not only, as is the case with Epirus and the University Hospital of Ioannina throughout the continent. The fact that the supplier will undertake to complete the studies, the construction of the premises and the installation of machinery under the coordination of building infrastructure is a pragmatism movement, with a view to the faster completion of the project. So let us not lose the forest by looking at the tree. With regard to the extension of the validity of various rules to deal with pandemic, and because various things have been said about the limited duration of the extensions, ladies and gentlemen, they are exceptional measures for the management of an emergency situation. Since this situation is constantly evolving and changing, it makes sense that it is not possible to adapt and revise such provisions. It's not a lack of predictability. It's flexibility. The fact is that we all agree on the need for prolongations and, indeed, on regulations that embrace those of our fellow citizens who have the greatest need. I will mention, for example, the extension of the health coverage of unsafe and vulnerable social groups in need of medical treatment, regardless of illness, the issue of monthly or recurring prescriptions over time and the dispatch to the home of medicines that patients and vulnerable groups need to be restricted. The amendment tabled by the Minister, which extends for six months, until the end of March 2022, is also necessary. The offer of all those working in the ERC is valuable. On the other hand, the recruitment of permanent staff must comply with the Constitution and the laws. This means procedures through SAEP. It is therefore unfair, first of all, for the fixed-term contractors themselves, to create the wrong expectations. With regard to the third part of the bill with the inclusion of social services, in addition to the JEPs, for the granting of a temporary EUMC or CIVID-19 certificate to specific categories of beneficiaries, we are faced with a problem that we have identified since the start of the vaccination programme, especially in cases of Greek counterparts who wished to be vaccinated in our country. Positive and obvious purpose is the possibility for civil society organisations and bodies and municipal doctors to carry out vaccinations. I note in the order of two points that were mentioned by bodies during the hearing. One is the identification of the medical expertise of those responsible for vaccination from local medical associations and the other is an information campaign in special population groups, particularly among our fellow people who do not have the necessary legal documents to be vaccinated without the threat of a forced deportation or removal measure. As I said at the outset, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law has been added to, among other things, the 'ELDRENERY' programme. We must, however, be clear and not confuse things, in other words, organisational and administrative matters. The program is exemplary, perhaps to an unprecedented extent for Greek measures. And this has been recognised internationally. There is room for more of our fellow citizens to be vaccinated. Clearly there are. And every effort is made to do this in various ways. You realize that this is not just dependent on centrally designed campaigns. The citizens now draw information and form an opinion from many sources. The solid and clear message we are looking for is the responsibility of many different factors. And it certainly does not help those who think they are doing opposition by fuelling skepticism about vaccines or ideologicalizing a medical act, such as vaccination. In conclusion, I would like to say that we support and vote in favour of this bill. Have a good night.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u329	We thank Mr Yoyakas and the consistency in time. The speaker has the floor for seven minutes, Mr Bruhan Barran.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u330	Thank you, Mr President. The ratification by 26-7-2021 of the amendment and the 6-9-2018 Donation Convention between the Foundation "Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation" and the Greek State for the implementation of Project VI in the midst of the enormous health crisis and pandemic, which we are going through is vital. And that cannot be called into question. You also know very well that the infrastructure and operation of many hospitals across the region are no longer worthy of the new medical challenges and incidents. I also have a personal knowledge of the example of the General Hospital of Xanthi, a region which I represent, which has difficulty in serving even the local community. In addition to the pile of problems that have arisen in various neuroalgic clinics, there is a huge shortage of anaesthetics and sufficient staffing of the intensive care unit with medical personnel is not possible. The EKEB is at the edge of the collapse and it requires its immediate support, as well as many other problems, which I have mentioned with the questions I have already tabled and which all of which are still unanswered, and you are well aware of the unrelenting blow that has been accepted by my prefecture. However, for many years we regret that this bill is a bill of extension and exceptional provisions to deal with COVID -19, which does not introduce anything new into the management of the pandemic, but also in the promotion of vaccinations. Stop, finally, legislate with extensions and moves. The issue of permanent extensions must be brought to an end. It is not only enough modern seeming hospitals, which are in set-aside, but the basic health core is required to get the machines started. And he's the inspiring, he's the sanitary staff, who's done his duty with self-determination and self-sacrifice, which you have bleeded and throw it right and left like a ball, filling it with false hopes and promises. The government, even now, after the unequal struggle of health care in public health structures against the virus remains faithful to its obsessions and attempts to cover the gaps in hospitals with temporary employment of doctors instead of permanent staff. But tell us what you're doing and what you've done for the rest of the population of this place, who's exhausted out of bounds and sanitary resurrects bleeding mentally. The need for strategic planning for the psychological support of society and, above all, for people working in health structures, as well as for patients experiencing unprecedented conditions, is imperative. You do not have a realistic plan to deal with the pandemic, as for eighteen months you have excluded local government from it, as well as medical clubs, while you are now starting to legislate to mobilise EGE mobile units to vacate vulnerable social groups, such as our homeless fellow citizens, immigrants, Roma, drug addicts, etc. But precious time has already been lost, gentlemen of the government. What we need and what we require is a national plan to support our country and get out of the crisis in a direct and substantial way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u331	Thank you, too. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Panagiotis Kourublis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u332	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by referring to a subject which has bothered me personally. It is about the persecution of Professor Dimitris Kouvella, a university, by a process which is inconsistent with our democratic policy - I will say to him - and a democratically elected government. I would like this issue, Minister, to be investigated. Mr. Ministers, we are returning to a state of insecurity. The approach of very cool analysts concludes that this insecurity is coming back, because there are recurring, mistakes and weaknesses in communication policy, so that the reluctances expressed by citizens, who have proved to be not all of them in the same opinion, whether they are politicians or other social character, can be made to the fullest extent possible. They are people of different backgrounds and origins, and to a large extent, at least to a large extent, these people have certain hesitations. And this is not only the case in Greece, it is also the case. So perhaps the way in which this issue was approached was not always the best and did not have the best effect. That is why, with the new effort, we seem to have a way ahead of us and with the third dose of the vaccine, it would be desirable to limit the self-sufficiency and complacentness of you. Listen to the people of Anti-Population, and the Officer and the Greater Anti-Population, because it is an issue that - I will not hesitate to say - is of at least the same interest to all of us in this House. I think that there should be an approach of this kind on these issues. Also, I'd like to make a reference to the sanitary. The way they left the hospitals I think this is a mistaken way and it would be an opportunity to find a new way of approaching and returning these people, because it is not such an easy process to hire a doctor. Minister, many times we have applauded them all together, because this old, tired, afflicted by the country's economic crises in recent years, a defyed system, has nonetheless lifted all the weight and brought us as a people and as a country with dignity in the international area. So we like to mention the various efforts and results in Greece, but these people seem to want them only in this case and not to recognize their offer in practice, giving them heavy and unhealthy. After all, Minister and Minister, who are young people in the position, Mr Mitsotakis, who, anyway, goes where he wants to communicate in the way he wants to communicate, says that he gives what he gives, abolish the solidarity contribution to health. Let him give you as new ministers a gift to make the people who are your direct associates. So now you are trying to do some things on the altar of this faith that you have for the private sector. I shall make a few remarks, Minister, on the attempt of a mixed system, as you would like to say, in the private and public sectors, as if it were a business. It is another issue of health compared with other sectors of the economy. You once again leave the large units of Thessaloniki in the private sector, Minister, to the unavoidable. Why? Why should their ICUs not take on a part of COVID, the people who may still touch them? I'll tell you something to look into. Be careful not to shut up a case involving people who died in units that were not ID, and here I stop. Look into it. I would also like to tell you, as far as the health system is concerned, that the system needs staff. I hear the New Democracy Members saying we'll get four thousand. He doesn't need only four thousand of the system. You know that better than I do, Ministers. The system over the last ten years because of the economic crisis and because of the pension maturation of people who have actually started its foundation has great losses. It wants a very large'support' system. He wants a flow. It would be a clever move for these people who hired these two years of pandemic to turn their contracts into at least indefinite in time. You will face serious problems, because from the outset, when the pandemic started, it was funny what happened at the time, because you did not properly calculate it, you did not predict it correctly, at the very heart of it, and the first announcement by the Government of New Democracy and the Ministry responsible were three hundred people for three months. That was your idea of the system. So I tell you that this PPP story will not walk. I don't want to make the prophet. You aspire. I can well accept the ambition that this can give way. If there is no organised procedure in any way decided here through a dialogue between the community of preventive and post-medical intervention so that, in fact, it can be intercepted, prevented from epidemics and pandemics, we are doing nothing. I'll take a personal step further. If we do not make an assessment that will have in and patients to have a reason, this system cannot reach where we all aspire, where it must arrive. If we are talking about this case of evaluation, we will say that it must have the status of the entire Greek examinations. Minister, there is also an issue concerning earthquakes, and I want this House to listen well to what I am about to say. We're a country of earthquake. Unfortunately, every year we have disasters. Will everyone here at last, Mr President, at the initiative of the Bureau, have to have a dialogue on the creation of an insurance body, as is happening in other countries such as Turkey, which we regard as a country that is back in many things, and yet in this area has a body that has no difficulty in restoring the damage caused by the earthquakes? We have experience in Greece for how many years it takes to heal these kinds of wounds. I shall conclude, Mr President, with the provisions relating to the parental benefits issue. The government could limit these benefits to up to 350,000 and the money that the state will now lose by giving them to the owners and occupants, because it is not only limited to the parental provision of property. It's going further than that. What man, Mr. President, Mr. Thanasis Bourrai, who really knows you, and you know me, has the possibility of 800,000? What popular family is it that has the ability to provide parental benefits of 800,000 euros? So the occupants and occupants will win this case. If, therefore, you confined this sum to EUR 300,000, even EUR 35 000, and the rest of the money went to health, you can be sure that we would have done a great deal of work, really useful to society. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, Mr. Kurubli, too. The Minister has the floor, Mr Screkas, to put him on the amendment, with a general number of 1089 and a special number of 160. How long will it take, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u334	Two minutes, Mr President, because I will only speak about two articles, 7 and 8, for which we have had quite a debate in this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u335	Good. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Mr President. These articles concern the possibility of using resources from the carbon dioxide, greenhouse gas emissions auction system, so that through a special fund that we are recommending, the energy transition fund, these resources can be directed to smoothen, soften and absorb the bulk of the appreciations observed at electricity prices. I would like to inform the Greek women and Greek Members that at the moment, unfortunately, it is a huge energy crisis at planetary level, which has hit Europe in particular. This is, of course, about the appalling increase in gas prices that today the gas price has quadruple over prices at the beginning of the year. The same is true of carbon dioxide prices. And these prices have been quadrupled again over the previous year. These two have pushed electricity prices to an explosive increase in Europe. I should like to point out that in Italy yesterday, the record of EUR 200 was broken by each electrical MWh, which was sold at wholesale prices. Here's 207 euros. In Greece, to say that on the same day, the electricity MWh had a wholesale price of EUR 132. We are therefore coming to Europe first, we are establishing a fund for the energy transition, where resources will be raised, as we are describing here in Article 8, which results from the auctioning of greenhouse gas emission allowances, but not from there alone. Other environmental charges, as well as the state budget itself, are being given the opportunity to finance this fund, which will work from now on and in the next few years when we are seeking to achieve this 'green' energy transition, as a depreciatory mechanism, so that when we have such exceptional situations where there are such exceptional conditions that push and push electricity prices at unthinkable levels, we are coming to use this fund to support Greek consumers and, of course, most of all, the weakest households and the most vulnerable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u337	And we thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u338	Please, Mr President, may I have the floor for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u339	Yes, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u340	I just want to say that I accept all the ministerial amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u341	Well, you're saying that for us to know. We are now continuing with the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Jason Fotima. Here, Mr. Firela, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law still constitutes a ratification of a contract between the Greek State and the public benefiting Foundation "Stavros Niarchos". First of all, we are grateful to the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, which, with its offers and cooperation, demonstrates its great and time-consuming contribution to the Greek state. His valuable and multi-faceted health assistance in our country is now being extended to the upgrading of health structures, as well as to the overall strengthening of the National Health System, because we know that the public interest can be as well served by both the public and private sectors. This was mainly demonstrated by public and private health cooperation, because the COVID pandemic has demonstrated the need for partnership with private doctors and nurses in order for our health system to function uniformly and organisedly and to stand up in this difficult and unprecedented health situation. Unfortunately, any disagreements on the issue of public cooperation with the private health sector are escaping from the micropolitical and antipolitics of counterpopulation. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, setting as its main priority the guarantee of public health, would not allow these kinds of ideas to overshadow the quality of services to patients. We believe that the State has a duty to provide free quality care, and to this end it is particularly important for the private sector to contribute. Besides, the private sector, let us not forget that it has allocated whole structures to support the National Health System in the fight against pandemic. Already in February 2020, it had been putting in IF beds. Many were private doctors who supported the country’s health system voluntarily. Throughout the health war both the public and private sectors united their forces and fell together in the battle against pandemic. The two sectors, public and private, are not competitors in the health sector but complement each other. We understand that and we contribute to the efforts of partnership between the two sectors in the interests of all. This cooperation relationship, which has already begun, will continue in the post-COVID era with many benefits, because we believe these relationships and do not necessarily do so. Besides, I will never get tired of saying it - perhaps some are tired of hearing it - that what makes a public health system is not who provides it but who gets it and who pays it. And in this model, everyone fits without exception. In this context, I would like to congratulate the particularly important amendment concerning anesthetics, who will be able to pay EUR 250 for every on-call in a regional hospital and which is also addressed to private anaesthetics. We are strengthening the ESS by giving solutions to chronic problems, since the lack of this speciality existed before the suspension of health duties. We shield the ESS so that we are ready and adequately faced with a possible new wave of pandemic. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, is directly linked to the management of the pandemic, the achievement of a higher rate of vaccination and, consequently, the protection of public health. Colleagues of the Officerial Representation that you are accusing us of legislating by prolongation without taking permanent measures, do you not know that the Constitution has been banning permanentisation for 15 years and that permanent recruitment can now be done through ADP? Do we ignore or circumvent constitutional provisions? The extensions of all contracts are compatible with the provisions of the Constitution and are absolutely necessary for the management of the pandemic in the coming period. You have a little patience. The announcements and the will of both the Minister and the government are coming is the mobilisation of all those who have supported the system with subsidiary relations, but always, in the context of legality and compatibility with the Council of State, precisely to ensure the rights and expectations of these people. At the same time, the health coverage of uninsured and vulnerable social groups requiring care is extended regardless of their illness. And at this point I would remind you that the implementation of the uninsured cover has begun in New Democracy. In addition, this bill contains provisions for the maximum possible vaccination coverage of vulnerable social groups, mainly citizens of third countries or stateless persons. And how does that work? With the possibility of NGOs, civil society bodies and non-profit organisations, as well as municipal doctors participating in the vaccination process and operation of "LIFERIA". This is how we aim to attract homeless, irregular immigrants, who are not easily approaching the health system, but who are easier to visit with the medical staff of NGOs and municipalities. It's the bet we have to win to build the immunity wall. Overall, ladies and gentlemen, it is a bill that contributes to the effective treatment of pandemic, to the protection of vulnerable social groups and the social grouping. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has a plan, implements it day after day, and continues forcefully to strengthen the effort and battle against the coronary pandemic. To close, I'm just wondering what Mr. Kourublis wanted to say at the beginning of his speech, in connection with an examination that he's ordered and which a prosecutor has asked for on a case. What does he mean? Can we pull the ear of the D.A.'s? Should we tell him why? Shall we step in and intervene in his work? We don't do this. Justice is independent of doing its job when politicians leave it. We're leaving her. Let her, too, at some point, do her work free. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u343	And we thank Mr Fotella for the consistency in time. And we are completing the list of speakers with the Member of the New Democracy, Mrs Maria Kefala, who has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u344	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with the bill we are debating today, we still have a contract between the Greek State and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. Having previously accepted the supply and installation of special medical equipment at the Hospitals of Ioannina, Heraklion, Larissa and Alexandroupolis, as well as the supply and installation of building equipment, we are coming today and are taking a corrective action on the procedures for upgrading health structures in our country. The foundation with its offers and through its close cooperation with the Greek state is a very important asset in upgrading the structures of the health system. It is an example of sound cooperation between a state and a private initiative. In the rest of the bill, we are introducing provisions relating to the exceptional circumstances we face because of the pandemic, which will help achieve a higher rate of vaccination in sensitive social groups. The aim is not to manage the pandemic more effectively. It follows a very important quarter for the health status of our country. We've won a lot of fights. However, the war with the coronary has not yet been completed. That is why we are prolonging the contracts of work of doctors, nurses and other staff, the possibility of converting beds into intensive treatment units and increased care units, as well as the health coverage of uninsured and vulnerable social groups in need of hospitalisation, regardless of disease. We seek the greatest possible vaccination coverage for vulnerable social groups, particularly citizens from third countries or stateless ones. We amend the legislative framework so that other administrative structures outside the JEP can issue and issue a provisional Social Security Register number or a COVID Digital Certificate -19 to specific categories of beneficiaries. With this measure, we achieve flexibility in the provision of temporary AMCA or vaccination certificate, mainly to vulnerable social groups, which are not able to come in person to the JEPs and do not have the necessary digital skills to request the electronic issue of the JEPs as well as the decongestion of the JEPs. We allow non-governmental organisations, civil society bodies and non-profit organisations, as well as municipal hospitals to participate in the operational vaccination plan. We are trying to attract social groups that are not easily approached by the health system, such as homeless and irregular immigrants. In other words, we regulate issues in order to achieve the greatest possible vaccination coverage of the population, so that we can tackle the pandemic even more effectively, stop the coronary and protect the supreme good. Cheers! Ladies and gentlemen, with the recent amendments tabled in this bill, we have shown that we are constantly next to the Greek family, next to the Greek society. Another favourable measure, another announcement by the Prime Minister at the PPP, which is taking place within a short period of time: we are subsidising the consumption of gas. We provide the possibility of this subsidy to household consumers, which will be credited to the beneficiaries' accounts as a deduction from natural gas suppliers. We are also increasing the tax-free limit on parental benefits and donations to first-class relatives from EUR 150,000 to EUR 800,000. We extend the scope of the reduced VAT rate from 24% to 13% by June 2022 for transport, coffee, non-alcoholic beverages, cinemas, dance schools, gyms and tourist packages. We are reducing the VAT on feed intended for animal production from 13% to 6%, but also as from 1 October 2021 we are reducing the tax on the concentration of capital by 50%. The previous government has identified, ladies and gentlemen, the detention and refusal of the private initiative. We want private individuals to be involved in the service of the public interest. We encourage private initiative. How the previous government faced private individuals we saw it in previous years. Our policy is completely different. We support the state's cooperation with individuals because we are interested in progress, we are interested in providing the best health services, to all, at the lowest cost. Health is a public good. It's the ultimate good for every man. Public good does not mean state goods. Public good means good to which all Greek women and all Greeks can have access. We are legislating for everyone and, above all, for the weakest citizens, for those who do not have the opportunity to pay private health services. We've received a public health in a difficult situation. Over two years in the National Health System, more than two thousand recruits were made to permanent doctors and more than two thousand recruits to subsidiary doctors. We are fighting the pandemic state and citizens together. It is currently vaccinated close to 70% of the adult population. 80% of citizens over sixty years of age are fully vaccinated. With the 'Frequency' programme, a step - we are increasingly guaranteeing the immune protection of citizens against the threat of infection. Effective management of the pandemic is intertwined and by upgrading the health system in our country. The aim is to protect public and individual health. Our aim is to protect every citizen, every human life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u345	We also thank Mrs Heads and the consistency of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u346	Mr President, I would ask the floor for a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u347	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u348	It's a typical legislative piece of the Treasury's amendment. I'm just filing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u349	I would ask that it be photocopied and distributed to colleagues. Now, we're going to a second cycle for those of the rapporteurs and special speakers who want it, but I've seen all of you digging your papers! I would ask that the five-minute time be respected. We'll start with the Special Rapporteur of Mera25 Mr. Maria Apajidis. Here, Mrs. Apajidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u350	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I should like to refer to the amendment on Crete, which we consider to be inadequate as Mera25. In the draft law, as a PART25, we can only vote on'residents' from a position of principle. Obviously, it is a good thing that some funds are being given in the form of a donation to the much-needed health sector. What is completely negative is the outsourcing of the outsourcing that has been able to carry out against Article 21 of the Constitution. There are two reasons for this. On the one hand, the memorials and the reduction of public finances brought about by the new Republic's ideology on a smaller state, even if this means that public health expenditure is borne in full or in part by the charity of individuals. The state has been able to have an absolute need for private sector donations to keep a misguided public health substantially alive. However, it is unacceptable that the state and the services it is obliged to provide citizens should depend on the charitable mood of each of the few-government who, on the one hand, enjoys many privileges and, on the other hand, has the personality of the benefactor. Our fundamental opposition to this shift of things leads us to'residences', even though we are aware of the terrible needs that this convention is taking part in. Each donation is welcome, especially when it covers emergency and real needs. That is why we are voting 'at present' instead of 'no'. But the memorial reality of a country that, in conflict with its Constitution, can only take care of the health of its citizens and is dependent on the charity of individuals. That is why, as I said, we are voting 'at present' instead of 'nei'. However, the details of the agreement are irrelevant because we do not question the fact that those needs that are coming to meet are real. We stress precisely that the needs that are coming to meet are indeed true, but this also reveals the state of the country and the result of very specific political choices during the last memorandum period. With regard to extensions of provisions to deal with COVID -19, we recognise the need for these extensions. However, we also recognise the governmental responsibilities for dealing with a pandemic that has led to a dead end. The Government refuses to take substantial measures of a permanent nature as regards health. It has at the back of its mind the dissolution and sale of public and free health. It resorts to continuous extensions of measures to "seeing and doing" and hopes that the solution will come at some point alone and that it only needs to take temporary measures with characteristic patches. With regard to the fourth part concerning the possibility of the vaccination of irregular immigrants and other vulnerable population groups, this positive measure required by common sense, as I said in my prototype, was taken in Greece with too much delay in relation to other European countries. In order for these people to be informed, good communication is needed and, of course, it will also be necessary to pass on to the languages of the irregular immigrants who may not speak Greek, but, above all, to cultivate a climate of confidence. And this is now very difficult because of two years of wrong government policy. Even now, however, at the last moment, there is a need for a government campaign of persuasion. However, the present government is not convincing about anyone, nor are they Greek citizens and permanent residents. We have a fact that cannot be called into question. The establishment of the vaccination programme and this is due to the fact that the government with its self-righteousness and self- admiration, as well as paternalism, has eroded anti-infection. He's made him an ideological issue. In some cases it has made him look like a attitude of dignity or resistance to its authoritarianism. When the Prime Minister himself calls flawed those who are not vaccinated, when the government makes them second-class citizens who have to bleed financially into a modern apartheid, then it is easy to have a heroisation of the anti-infectives, for which the government itself is responsible. Unfortunately, we are also afraid that the government will listen to us again too late, as was the case with the vaccination of irregular immigrants. The solution is, however, democratic, and I am convinced of both the immigrants and the Greeks and everywhere about vaccination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u351	Thank you, too, for the consistency in time. Let me make a announcement until the Step is ready for the next Special Rapporteur: The Foreign, Finance and National Defence Ministers, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance and Foreign Affairs, submitted their 1-10-2021 draft law: ‘Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the French Republic establishing a strategic partnership for defence and security cooperation.’ It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. And the reason is the special speaker of the Greek Solution, Mrs Maria Athanasios for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u352	Thank you, Mr President. You'll allow me to speak for six minutes, because I'm ready...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u353	No, I won't. There's no room. Warm request. You've all taken a lot of time in protology as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u354	No, Mr President, I haven't. I haven't even reached fifteen minutes. That's why I asked. It's okay. Minister, you have forced us out of the question in your criticism of the current bill, as the equipment of hospitals is undeniably important and necessary, but it is also necessary for the health staff who handle it and serve the sufferers. So let aside the propaganda about the evil Major and the Elasson of Antipolitics and good and kind government and see the truth. I shall start with the questions from our parliamentary representative, Mr Villardou, on which you have not answered them. And don't take them as remarks. It's questions. First question. The July bill includes the donation of a hundred fifty - five ICUs and nineteen MDAs to fifteen hospitals because of the pandemic. Really, are those ICUs working? Question two. In February 2021, the “Norarch” Foundation donated a donation to the “Evangelism” twenty new beds, but the hospital suddenly differentiated the technical specifications of the project, thus changing the final contractor, while six months after the new ICU beds are ignored. Third question. Something similar happened with the donation of Ms Angelopoulos, which was given about 2.4 million for eighteen beds in "Papanikolaou", but has not yet been made available, so they do not work. Is that true? Fourth question concerning the 'Norarch' Aerospace. After Air Niarchos - EKAB’s flights started, why are private contracts being renewed? Isn't that enough? After dealing with two new aircraft and repairing two existing 26,24m euro helicopters. Fifth question. In addition, has AEGEAN finally donated to the public the promised ATR in order to be converted into EAW aerospace facilities? Sixth question. Furthermore, the donation of 7.5 million is costing if one reads the terms of the Niarchas Foundation. For example, coverage of the costs of the hotel equipment needed to complete the project, formulation of the appropriate conditions for the delivery of the premises to be installed for the special medical equipment. However, the General Accounting Office of the State has not quantified it. Why? You are assigned to the donations of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for health equipment and you are literally leaving the HSY to the mercy of God and the honor of the few remaining doctors and nurses you are punishing by submitting the mandatory vaccination and sending them if they do not comply with a job suspension. Why? In fact, when the number of tubes fall so does deaths, why do you insist on vaccination? And don't tell us, because we've got a lot of cases growing up. Because you already know, Madam Secretary, as a doctor that there are mutations, increasing cases without a happy increase in the intubated means that the virus begins to weaken. Nevertheless, you are adopting punishment measures, especially with regard to health and the heroes you were applauding at the beginning of the pandemic. And it is such your obsession with vaccines - provocative and illegitimate, I would describe it - that you are ready to inoculate even five children five to twelve years old and adolescents twelve to seventeen years with vaccines that are useless to them, since these ages are not seriously ill. And coronary personnel movements are proven dangerous when central hospitals in Attica are experiencing medical shortages and therefore regular surgery is cancelled. Subsequently, seven hundred homogeneous (b) Mediterranean anemia transfused at the Children's Hospital are transfused due to a lack of blood, a subject known as Mr Samaras's time, which has recently deteriorated, with sufferers having to come to the hospital twice a week for the necessary blood transfusion if these transfusions are not postponed, with these patients being inevitably conspired and with the clinical patients running twice as many patients as possible. You referred to the struggle to deal with the pandemic that private doctors gave. Let us remind you that they were forced to participate after the successive calls initially, at a risk of being imposed by the former Minister of Health, Mr Kikilia. Also, to remind you that the clinicians agreed to give beds, after you have secured their compensation. As regards the other articles of the legislation, in Article 32, in order to facilitate the intrusion of the intruders, if they are vaccinated, i.e. the non-implementation of their expulsion, we did not receive any convincing response, nor did this contested and dangerous provision even be clarified. I will ask why immigrants are still here for whom a expulsion permit has been issued and we must inoculate them. Shouldn't they be in their countries? No, because you're not intent on it. We are not convinced of your answers, unfortunately. With regard to updating the blood classes, I will reply to you as a doctor that to date this exclusion of people with a homosexual relationship has been maintained since 1977, because the lifestyle of these people has exposed them to an increased risk of infection with viruses such as AIDS, hepatitis B, hepatitis C, cytomegalovirus, which in the so-called disease window cannot be detected, so that there is an increased chance of transmitting the disease to transfusions. I shall conclude, Mr President, only with this last one. As far as monoclonal antibodies are concerned, in Florida, the United States, with twenty-five million people and a lot of tourism, in a state that did not apply many restrictions or, of course, the digital certificate, in a single month the monoclonal antibodies were reduced by 70%, imports to hospitals according to its governor, as we will testify in the Practicals. [[At this point, the Member, Maria Athanasios, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u355	Thank you, Mrs Athanasios. The floor is now given by the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece and Vice-President of the Parliament, George Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u356	Thank you, Mr President. As I said in my prology, I would take advantage of the time of denology for two amendments by the Ministry of Health alone. Our parliamentary representative has been put on the table for the other amendments. And we are obliged, beyond any position on each article, to say our intention of voting, because the vote we will shortly be calling on to give the amendments will be in the whole of the amendment, and there will be objections or positive approaches to articles in the amendments. Therefore, in Amendment No 1092 and in Article 1, which refers to the renewal of opinions of sufferers, we would be positive. In Article 2, we would vote 'the present'. We agree with the extension of the time for home vaccination. We do not agree - and in the past we have placed ourselves - with the involvement of individuals. Here too, there are enormous shortages over time and the tragic situation in primary health care. In Article 3, we would vote positively. It gives the possibility to carry out vaccinations against COVID by the EGE through the extension. Article 4, with the issues of forced vaccination, we would vote against it. In Article 5, concerning the execution by TAs A' and B', we would vote'residents'. Article 6, concerning the disposal of COVID tests, would vote against. Here regulates the sale of autodiagnostics, tests, self test, and even from supermarkets. Article 7 on monoclonals, we would vote on it, we would be positive. We would vote against Article 8 because these are the well-known contracts with health professionals and not a requisition without compensation for entrepreneurs. Similarly, to extend to hospitals free of charge from municipalities and regions in Article 9, we would go to the'residents'. Therefore, as a whole, we are 'against' because Articles 4 and 8 of the amendment are burdening our negative vote. I come to the second amendment with a general number of 1093 and a specialist of 163. Article 1 would vote against it if it were separate. In essence, it extends the possibility of recruiting ancillary staff to the Ministry of Health and the IFET. It is, in fact, about implementing the policy, within the framework of the strategy and the present Government, of extending the fixed-term flexible working relationships, and it goes on to say. Here, the need is for permanent, full and full-time personnel to be recruited. The fact that this regulation of the amendment comes back for a long time - because it is not the first time - shows that the problem of subscribing these services is not solved, since the need to recruit permanent and sufficient staff is in contrast to the labour cost reduction policy, with the policy of operating these services with the market rules that in fact require cheap and flexible workers. Article 2, we would vote against it if it were alone, a separate one, because it provides for the recruitment of subsidiary personnel to doctors, nurses and other staff to health establishments and also provides for the movement of personnel from one unit to another. This is done by invoking the emergency needs which, in our view, are a pretext and is not the first time. This argument comes from last year on the basis of these flexible forms of recruitment by the government. About the pandemic now, the pandemic didn't happen yesterday these days. It's been about two years. So in these two, two and a half years, why didn't you hire the permanent staff to the public health units? And now the government comes and of course exploits pandemic as an argument, namely, the pandemic, to proceed with the new ESS, with a deeper commercialisation of its business and with a corresponding adaptation to the entrepreneurship rules which, among other things, workers have been making with these temporary working relationships and the social element, namely the policy that has extended these measures, which have been adopted and implemented by all previous governments for many years. Article 3, if it was alone, we'd vote for it. It relates to the compensation of employees in the EMCDDA. In Article 4, which provides for the extension of workers' contracts in public hospitals, university hospitals, overseeing bodies from the Ministry of Health, primary school, EEAS, EOF, etc., until 31-3-2022, we would also be positive. The criterion we set for this article in the amendment and our vote in favour if it was alone is that these workers will not continue to work for this few months until 31-32022. This provision shows the need for permanent recruitment and recruitment of all the staff who are now experienced. So the permanentization of all these without conditions and conditions. With regard to all the things we have heard in the Constitutional Committee, have you not voted for the Constitution? Didn't you change the constitution? Didn't you make the provision that explicitly prohibits the conversion of fixed-term employment relationships into an indefinite period of time? And you come now and invoke the Constitution and get us out of it, while the needs of our people are such that our people gravitate and pull everything out? She's been living in a tragedy a half and a half now, not to mention the previous years. Hypocrisy has no bottom! As far as Article 5 is concerned, which concerns the additional remuneration of anaesthetists, we would go to 'the present', if that were also separate. Here too, Mr President: firstly, it is not just anesthetics who move, but also doctors of other specialties. Why are they excluded? Secondly, this additional fee does not address the huge gap created in the compulsory traveller's health unit of origin, as is not the problem that the mobile anesthesiologist as a rule can even observe all days of the month. Thirdly, why does the government not proceed directly and by concise procedures to recruit permanent, full-time and full-time staff - not only are we talking about the specificity of anesthesiology, but also about other specialities - in order to meet the needs? Now the policy 'half a hole' applies, I open another five, six. Fourthly, the Government seeks by this additional provision to pass the whole anti-grassroots framework of its policy on health, that is, sub-funding, sub-selling and commercialisation. That's why we're going to the 'parents' in this. As far as Article 6 is concerned, we would vote 'in anticipation'. The government invokes the existing problem of lack of anaesthetics and the delays of surgery and therefore goes on to contracts with private anaesthetics. Who created the problem? The government and all previous governments! Here you have declared an embargo of almost a decade on permanent recruitment to the public health system. Also, together all governments have taken care of the misery of the public health system, which was transformed into a disease system and with the known guidelines for reductions in surgery even 80%. You remember those things. You are now invoking the result of this policy that you have taken against the measures that you have taken, and you are bringing them up as the cause of the problem. You do not finance, you do not do permanent recruitment, you do not plan the training of specialist doctors where there is a shortage all these years and, in fact, you are also implementing all these measures which create the problem in order to make it as necessary to get private people into public health units. In Article 7, Mr President, which extends the fixed-term private-law contracts of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection, we would vote 'in favour'. On the basis of this, we will go to the'summers' in the whole of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u357	Thank you, too. I'll make another announcement. The Ministers for Migration Policy, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign, Labour and Social Affairs, Environment and Energy, Protection of the Citizen, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Maritime and Island Policy, Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance, Foreign and Home Affairs, have tabled the 1-10-2021 draft law: ‘Conventional Texts on the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy (ICMPD)’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The reason for his denology is now the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr Francis. Here, Mr. Francis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u358	I'll be brief. In addition, both the rapporteur and the Parliamentary representative of the Movement have been placed on the bill and the amendments. However, I would like to focus on two points on the general situation in Greece today, in general, but especially in northern Greece, which is tragic. I say this because the Koronovirus has led all the prefectures in Thessaloniki and all the prefectures in central Macedonia to'red' We know very well that the hospitals in Thessaloniki are bogging because the hospitalization of the serious incidents is taking place in Thessaloniki, the IF beds are almost all full and the situation is hopeless, because unfortunately the percentage of citizens who have not been vaccinated is too great. So here, unfortunately, the government cannot praise itself for the entire course of vaccination. We know very well that we are from the last countries in the European Union on vaccination. We have very low rates of vaccinated citizens, these low rates are becoming sources for mutations, and, of course, there is reason for many people to get sick today and the National Health System to be in a very difficult situation. So, in the debate, all of this sounds like a lot of things. I believe that when we talk about the issue of pandemic and its treatment, we must all be very careful, because you know that everything we say here many times there is evidence that can strengthen those who have not been vaccinated today. I say this because they are caught by a conversation which, unfortunately, often cannot interpret it properly and lead to results wrongly. Why am I saying that? There was a lot of talk about the monoclonal antibodies and vaccination. It must be clear that today's main weapon to treat the coronary pandemic is the vaccine. Auxiliary yes, the monoclonal antibodies may also play a role. But the monoclonal antibodies are still at the research stage today, the studies. Of course, the first results are very encouraging because it appears that monoclonal antibodies reduce citizens' hospitalisation by 70% -71%, reduce the days with symptoms and reduce viral load. Yes, but also because of the difficulty of producing them, the lack of them, and because they are still not all studies, we must be careful and not confronted, that the monoclonal antibodies are better than the vaccine. The main weapon we may have today in our hands and can be promoted is the vaccine. The world must be vaccinated. I would like to tell you, Minister, an element in relation to the use of monoclonal antibodies. When the opportunity is given to our country - and I hope that this will soon be - then the monoclonal antibodies in our view should not only be given to Athens or Thessaloniki, but also the opportunity for all the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs to be able to use them in the appropriate cases and in the people who need them. The second element I would like to say is in relation to doctors and the lack of medical staff. Of course there's a nursing staff. And that's a big shortage. But you know that the core of the health system is the doctor and around the doctor moving the whole system, nursing, paramedic and everything else. If there is no doctor, a clinic cannot work. Why am I saying that? You said in your position that you appointed over four thousand doctors. Yeah, that's right. There they are, four thousand two hundred, if I'm not mistaken, two thousand and eighty nine are all these years ago and with the pandemic that was done by notices, and two thousand are subsidiary doctors. Auxiliary doctors shall not be permanent. So they're at a stage of questioning themselves and they don't prefer to go to the hospitals. In this case at least we should consider it not to be the one or two-year contract but to be five years old so that people can make their own and family planning. And secondly, let me tell you, Minister, that these doctors don't look. There are so many shortcomings and those that do not appear in the pension. We therefore have the shortcomings in specialities such as anesthetologists, intensive scientists, pneumonologists, to say the three dominant specialities that are currently needed especially in intensive care units. And, of course, I have also heard the Minister, Madam President, earlier, about the specialities and the way in which doctors should specialize. It is indeed a chronic problem that definitely needs to be addressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u359	Thank you, Mr. Francis. The rapporteur of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Mrs Theodora Augeris, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u360	I too, Mr President, have had the opportunity as SYRIZA rapporteur - a Progressive Alliance for my first speech on a provision for the ratification of the amended convention with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, but also with the second part of the bill, these thirty-seven provisions which are, in essence, extensions of contracts and issues regulated by the extension of the COVID pandemic -19. In addition, my SYRIZA colleagues - a Progressive Alliance, but also the parliamentary representative. I also respect the tiredness of the Bureau, and I appreciate the Minister's presence all this week at very fast rates and concentrated at the same time, but I would like to point out, Minister, that it was your choice to come this bill on Saturday and within this very short time we need to discuss and put together with us and the institutions for issues that we have not been dealt with all this time and, above all, the conditions of pandemic have been increased and extended. We also referred to this poor legal system and the anti-parliamentary procedure with which you agreed, but it seemed that this agreement might have been a little pretext for you because you have tabled amendments, five in number, of which the two concern health issues, one in terms of justice, one in dealing with the problems arising from the great seismic vibration and the post-seismic sequence in Crete and the other in relation to economic issues, but the others have not been given the opportunity both to the House of the Greek Parliament and to the competent departments to sit down and discuss provisions for which there may be objections and some positive views. This was also the case in the case of Amendment No 1089, the amendment which raises a number of issues, which in essence specify the Prime Minister's financial statements at the Thessaloniki International Fair on Tax Reliefs, but also issues relating to the great question of the accuracy of energy, which should reasonably be introduced into a separate bill by the Ministry of Finance and another bill by the Ministry of Energy and the Environment. Indeed, the rapporteur was asked about the amendment - the Minister for Finance was here - on the question of electricity subsidies, about how many months of consumption it would be and what the cost would be. It was clear and obvious that the dismay of the State Secretary who did not know how to answer was obviously not about his own area of responsibility, how much more so if you think that the Minister who is proposing this amendment and signing it did not know how to answer it. Your parliamentary representative tried to answer by saying that there is no answer because the level of this budget expenditure is still estimated. After a while, at 7.10 p.m., he came in suffocating the Minister to cover this obvious discomfort of the Deputy Minister of Finance, but did not make us wiser and wiser. He didn't answer. In fact, he repeated, and again read the specific provision of the amendment. The questions therefore remain unanswered. What months of consumption is this subsidy involved? Why do August's accounts already come high? Why are farmers and professionals not included, such as ovens and pastry, in this arrangement? How much does that cost? When will you know? Finally, Mr President, I would like to dwell on two things. One concerns what I invited you at the end of my first speech, and you did not answer whether you would do so, and I think it is very important that you are a new minister, a new political leadership of the Ministry of Health. What is your health plan to deal with the fourth and most severe wave of the pandemic in Thessaloniki and other parts of northern Greece and all over the country? We experienced the tragic experience of your criminal choices and mistakes during the second wave of pandemic just a year ago in Thessaloniki. We have noted the absence of this coordinated plan. We had talked about individual issues, as was the fact that there was no integration plan within this plan that no one knew about, there was no transparency and accountability of large private clinics from the battle of COVID -19 rather than getting clear incidents with double compensation on the day for the ICM, which is still happening today. The clean incidents leave public hospitals and go to private clinics to operate. We do not have this assessment of last year's example of crime and crime on your part, nor a plan tabled, signed by someone in particular, to know who is suggesting it and who is responsible for it. And don't hide behind it improperly. I very much respect what you said in closing your speech, that you want to be judged by your actions and not by your words. You say it as a lawman, because they are usually evaluated and criminal. But tell the Minister of Justice that brings a very censorship bill in relation to the assessment of ideas and opinions. But I would like to tell you by closing down this: when you leave this ministry, do not go back to the same ideas, but keep those actions that you are doing as Minister of Health. Because in addition to the acts that may be arson, or a vitriol that may be burnt, arson, and more burning, it can be a phrase or a reason. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u361	Thank you, Mrs. Auger. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Neocles Cretan, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u362	Mr President, I will be a lacquer as always. Health sees how sensitive space it is and I think that beyond the contradictions we need to see the shocks of all the political forces, the overwhelming majority, because the enemy today is invisible and is one now: the coronary. I agree with Mr. Frankides that one is our mechanism, which is the vaccine. As a doctor, I won't be posted for the monoclonals. There is a scientific community that decides and I think we should not mislead people, because people listen very carefully to what comes out of this Chamber. That is why all of us together need to convene and vote in favour of this bill, which I think is in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, too. Minister, would you like to take the floor and close the debate?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u364	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u365	Good. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle of the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Health is hereby finalised: "Follow it from 26.7.2021 to amendment and replacement from 3.6.2019 individual Donation Convention for Project VI of 6.9.2018 Donation Convention between the Foundation "Supporting Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation" and the Greek State to strengthen and upgrade the infrastructure in the field of health and its annexes and other urgent provisions to address the CIVID -19 Coronary Pandemic". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of thirty-six articles, five amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, the hotel article and the entire bill. After you have registered your vote, you may check it or even revise it by the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u366	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u367	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u368	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Repeal of 26.7.2021 of amendment and replacement by 3.6.2019 individual Donation Convention for Project VI of 6.9.2018 Donation Convention between the Foundation “Soft Benefit Foundation of Stavros S. Niarchos” and the Greek State to strengthen and upgrade the infrastructure in the field of health and its annexes and other emergency provisions to address the pandemic of the COVID -19” was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, on the articles and in the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u369	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u370	The House has given the mandate requested. I would ask the House to empower the Bureau to confirm the minutes of the sittings: PNM's Wednesday 16 June 2021, PNM's Tuesday 29 June 2021, PNM's Thursday 1 July 2021, PNT's Friday 2 July 2021, PNZ's Monday 5 July 2021, PNZ's Tuesday 6 July 2021, PNT's Wednesday 7 July 2021, PXXS' Thursday 8 July 2021, PXS' Friday 9 July 2021, PXV's 12 July 2021, PXV of September 2021, PRXV of 9 September 2021, PRXV of 23 September 2021, PRXV of 21 September 2021, PRXV of 21 September 2021, PT of 21 September 2021, PTW of 21 September 2021, PTW of 21 July 2021, PTW of 23 July 2021, PRW of 21 July 20 July 2021, PT of 21 July 2021, PT of 21 July 2021, PTW of 21 July 2021, PRW of 21 July 20 July 2021, PT of 2021, PRW of 21 July 20 July 2021' of 20 July 20 July 2021, PTW of 23 July 2021, PV of 23 July 2021', PTW of 23 July 2021, PT of 23 July 2021 WW of 2021', PT of 23 July 20 July 20 July 2021, PT of 23 July 20 July 2021, PT of 23 July 2021, PT of 23 July 2021 WW of 23 July 2021 WW of 23 July 2021 WW of 23 July 2021 WW of 23 July 2021, PTEW of 23 July 2021, PW of 23 July 20 July 20 July 20 July 20 July 2021, PW, PW of 23 July 2021, PW of 23 July 2021, PW of 2021, PW of 2021, PW of 2021 WW WW of 2021 WW of 2021, PW of 23 July 2021, PW of 2021, PW of 2021, PW of 2021 of 2021 PW of 2021, PW of 2021, PW of 2021, P
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u371	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-01-S1-commons.u372	With the consent of the House at 20.13 p.m., the sitting for Monday, October 4, 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: a) communication of the Presidential Decree to close the proceedings of the Second Session and b) Sanctionation to begin the proceedings of the Third Session by Metropolitan Kassandria Mr Nicodemus and members of the Standing Sacred Session, in accordance with Rules 6 and 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
