ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Parliament's decisions - Financial management: (a) Only debate and vote of Parliament's draft budget expenditure for the financial year 2022. (b) Only discussion and approval of Parliament's Expenditure Report, financial year 2020 and the Annex thereto (Report 2020 of the Parliamentary Foundation for Parliament and Democracy). Parliament's decisions were passed in the relevant Committee on Economic Affairs by a majority of four fifths (4/5) of the total number of its members. Therefore, pursuant to Rule 108(1) and (6), they may be voted on by the House without a debate. The Conference of Presidents at its meeting of 11 November 2020 decided to discuss them at a meeting as follows: To take the floor, if they so wish, rapporteurs, special speakers and parliamentary representatives, with a speaking time of five minutes, as well as a speaker appointed by each parliamentary group, also for five minutes. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u2	So I have the assent to the procedure by unanimity. Before we start with the rapporteurs, I will also ask the Members of Parliament. Only two colleagues have been written for speakers. He has asked to speak first, obviously to give you the whole outline, the President of Parliament, Mr Kostantinos Tsoulas, and then we will enter the debate with whoever wishes to take the floor. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the plenary is called upon to place itself on the budget of the National Representation of 2022 and on the 2020 statement both of the Parliament and of the Parliamentary Foundation. It is interesting that the debate on the budget of the Parliament should consider how, in the last two years, the House has been dealing with its obligations towards democracy, over the rights of citizens, against the culture, against the need to represent, as literally as possible, what it describes as National Representation. It is true that the conditions under which we operate in the past twenty-two months are unprecedented and sometimes abrupt. However, we have managed to keep this Parliament open, operational, careful, defending, but also exemplary to public opinion, to the Greek people, who, like us, at the beginning of the crisis, faced the pandemic, this sudden dispersion of a deadly virus, with anguish, uncomfortable, but also with a preparedness, one would say, which at least prevented much worse. Things have moved forward, they've evolved. We are trying to maintain a difficult balance between the functioning of society, the economy, education and health protection. Globally this balance is respected in general, but things are not ideal. We have victims, we have daily lives loss. There's no mystery in dealing with the coronary. The international scientific community and common sense dictate to us that the defence of the vaccine is the only mechanism to prevent the spread of the virus. Otherwise, the virus will be prevented from spreading through the painful process of illness, which does not guarantee its mild form, but can develop into severe or fatal. So I repeat from this step once again, in the most convincing way one can have, the appeal to the Greek people to be vaccinated, as their representatives, such as the Greek Parliament, have been vaccinated. Its staff and our colleagues have respected in their overwhelming majority, almost an absolute majority, this obligation to the supreme good of life, to protect ourselves and to our adjoining ones. And in order not to think that all of this is unprecedented, it is impressive how Thucydides describes the infection in Athens by saying that "the first came from Ethiopia to the Athenian city", Mr. Ypsilanti, "obviously fell." So invitingly, suddenly came from China. Where we watched it as an event involving another universe suddenly became a depressing part of our own universe. However, to return to the agenda, the House has dealt with this attack exemplaryly, and today with the budget next year demands its functional and organisational self-reliance to carry out its debt to the Greek people, against its history, against the prospects of our country. The Parliament's budget for 2022 is EUR 144,200,000 in line with the ceilings of the medium-term programme. Here, too, it is worth reminding us of Parliament's contribution from 2011 onwards to reducing state spending. After the terrible economic crisis that hit our country, the House has generally adjusted and limited its budget to 60% of the funds managed before the crisis. The House's last budgets at the time of prosperation with any aggressive determination that it deserves - but obviously the 'plainer' is not unfair - had reached EUR 220 million. We are now moving in budgets of 140, 142, 144, 139 million euros in recent years, which means that saving funds led the House to make use of about 62% with 63% of the funds it used before the crisis. However, its function, its aims, its performances continue in an instant manner and we believe that all our activities, described in their new chapter of presentation, which is the chapter of the programmes - are a more imaginative illustration of Parliament's activities - will also continue in its internal function and in its outward operation, given the attention that this extroversion must show because of the pandemic, but also as regards its international obligations, as well as its social and cultural mission. We are, as you will see from the breakdowns, that about 77% of Parliament's expenditure, which has only expenditure - it is a budget for expenditure, it does not receive from its services, it alone has expenditure - on ruthless costs for workers, for parliamentary staff, for insurance and for the rest of 23% for its other missions. The new way of portraying her activities is to do with four basic categories. The first is the parliamentary work, which mainly absorbs in another way the share of the lion of the Parliament's funds. We then have expenditure on organisational action and its digitisation. We then have expenditure on its extrovert and on its transparency, and finally we have the expenditure on independent services operating under the Parliament's cover, such as the Service Any Ones or the Bureau of Parliament's Budget Office. In addition to the expenditure which is recorded in the budget and which is thoroughly unfolded in the notes you have and in the presentation you have from the financial services of the Parliament, which I would like to thank publicly for all their efforts and in the accounting and budgetary section of our work, in addition to that, the House also has actions that are financed from funds other than those from the State General Accountancy Office, namely the ESDP and the Green Fund. I would like to refer to these actions, because they concern the programme - let us say so - of the public works and supplies of the House, which continues a good tradition, with a view to constantly expanding it. At the moment, financed by the ESDP and the Green Fund, we have several projects. The energy upgrade work of the House's House building, which aims to reduce at least 40% the energy footprint of a monument, a building which is a monument and which will be completed within 2022. In the context of this energy upgrade of the House, in the first quarter of next year, we are auctioning the replacement of external lighting, which will also have an energy and aesthetic imprint. At the same time, air-conditioning systems are replaced at the children's station, in areas other than the House's Megaron, and we are preparing energy upgrades and saving resources with modern lighting in the other buildings that have Parliament, in Metropolitan, Amalia and Thrasyllos. We aspire to begin the construction of the Philadelphia road building, which has been described as a monument, a contractor that is on the verge of assigning to a contractor. This building has gone through an adventure. We have had the known side effects of major discounts. A 60% discount was given. Obviously, this discount was not possible to complete the project, it was re-published and we are now ambitious with more reasonable confrontations and discounts to make use of an important building, whose painting decor only, ladies and gentlemen, turned it from a preserver to a monument. I also wanted to tell you that within the days the contract for the Benaeus Library building is signed, that is, the building that is owned by the House and is the unseen side of the Old Parliament. The whole part contained between Kolokotronis Street and Anthimos Gazis Street is the old Library, which will be renovated in order to reuse and move the volumes that have gone to Capennosio, Lenorman Street, so that the centre of Athens is upgraded, but also a service that is important for the study of history in this great building, which will also be a further contribution of the House to highlighting the aesthetic image of the old buildings of the capital. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we are ready to go on with a study on the full establishment of a project to make use of the'super-ocean' project, as I call it, of the huge building we have in the Lenorman Street, the Capergossiou building, nineteen thousand square meters, which houses an excellent exhibition of contemporary art in collaboration with the private body 'Neon' by Mr. Daskalopoulos, which will continue in 2022 to house modern art, but other aspects of it, in cooperation with the Museum of Contemporary Art of the State, that is, this museum housed in Fix's old building. In the meantime, however, we must suppress, through this study, for its use, especially because a large part of it will be released by moving libraries to the Benaque Library of Kolokotronis Street and Anthimos Gazis Street. We are in the process of completing the project to digitize the library documents. There's been a auction. We have all these pre-trial and judicial stipulations that usually happen among the prospective contractors after the tenders. That ends sometime. Soon we believe that this work will end up and comply with for the digitisation of the documents of the Library of the House. I also want to tell you that last Monday I will discuss, among other things, with Panagiotios Patriarch Constantinople, Mr. Vartholomios here in the House for the cooperation between the Parliament and the Ecumenical Patriarchate for the further use of the Library of the Holy Monastery of Halkis in Constantinople. This is, in general, our image at this time. The 2020 annual report shall be within the budget. This year's budget is also developing well. From what the agency has for 2021, it seems that we are not going to have any problem. All costs are evolving smoothly, all costs have their credit to cover them and therefore the House is continuing its historic and political mission through this triumph of the pandemic period. The parties, I have to say, have contributed in the right way to tackle the pandemic. Ultimately, this whole effect of our operation is the result of a cooperation, it is the result of a mutual understanding. I understand that here is obviously an area of contradiction, a space of contrast, it is the essence of democracy, but where we had to agree, in the essentials, on the very essentials, on the very essentials, as they were, I repeat, our function within this vast scene twenty months ago, there on basic lines, and so the operation of this House and the exemplary behaviour of this House towards a society, which needed, as well as the example and encouragement and sound optimism, has been facilitated. Therefore, with these thoughts and brief additions, the cultural and social work of the House, which has been demonstrated by our contribution to the National Health System, continues in 2022. The cultural work has as a crown of our report for the two hundred years since the Revolution of '21, which may not accept because of coronary urban visits, but impresses experts and non-experts who visit it and we will keep it next year, in particular, so that youth, especially schools, enjoy it. So we continue our work, in spite of the adversities, with good optimism, trying to do our duty towards the Greek people, and I think that, in the 2022 budget, our debt is politically, functionally, organisationally and operationally, and that is why I call on our colleagues to vote in favour of the budget, as well as the 2020 report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of making two announcements to this House. Firstly, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs presents its report (a) to Parliament's draft budget expenditure for the financial year 2022 and (b) to Parliament's Expenditure Report, financial year 2020, and its Annex (Assessment 2020 of Parliament's activities on Parliament's Parliamentary and Democracy Foundation). Second Communication: The Minister for Rural Development and Food, Economic, Development and Investment, National Defence, Education and Religion, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, Tourism, Climate Change and Civil Protection, Deputy Ministers of Finance and Home Affairs, as well as the Deputy Minister for Culture and Sport, tabled on 15-11-2021 a draft law: "Support and modernisation of the establishment and operation of livestock facilities, provisions for controls and sanctions and other urgent arrangements of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. We're starting now in a row. The rapporteur-general from New Democracy is Mr Vassilios - Nikolaos Ypsilantis. Mr. Ypsilante, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. I take the opportunity of thanking the President of Parliament very much for his staff for the important work carried out by the Greek Parliament and on his face and to the previous Presidents of the Greek Parliament, which is not only the work of parliament and parliamentaryism and democracy, but also has a deeper imprint on the issues of culture and Hellenism as a whole. I have the honour of presenting the Parliament's expenditure budget for the financial year 2022, as well as the statement of expenditure for the Parliament for the financial year 2020 and for this Annex, namely the annual report of the Parliamentary Foundation for Parliament and the Republic, as provided for in Rule 123 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, after a very constructive debate which has taken place in the committee responsible, in which more general remarks may have been made, but in essence there has been a fruitful dialogue with all parties and on the basis of a more continuous qualitative improvement in the work of Parliament, the extremism and the social precedent that the Greek Parliament should send to our national Parliament and, of course, the presence and operation of the Greek Parliament as a whole. An effort that the years of the crisis, despite the horizontal cost cuts, as the President of Parliament, made by us Members of Parliament themselves in the Greek Parliament at 60% of expenditure, continues to apply with the absolutely necessary increases, which were undermined by the forces of reaction and of the civil hate, which, unfortunately, tortures our place, stifling democracy and parliamentaryism, but also the position that the Greek Member must have. In democracy, however, there are no dead ends and today, with greater maturation and optimism, we face our national and the prospect of the Third Hellenic Republic. The budget for the year 2022 comes to a vote, while the pandemic with the Greek Parliament continues to act responsibly and efficiently, mainly along with the use of digital means, using the applications of technology, information and communication, as well as the administrative support of the Parliament with the best methods of organisation and administration. In this way, both legislative and parliamentary control continue continuously and intensively. It has as its fundamental objective the most effective functioning of the House and the implementation under the Constitution in the best possible way of all legislative function and control of executive power. As far as we are concerned, this is a fundamental criterion for the training of economic sizes. It is precisely the strengthening of this role in the evolution of the House, but also the modernisation of the functioning of the administrative financial procedures, the introduction of modern methods of financial monitoring, the introduction of modern information systems, the more efficient operation of human resources and the rational distribution and exploitation of the resources of the Parliament's infrastructure. Change to strengthen Parliament's actions of extremism, transparency and accountability to society. The 2022 budget amounts to EUR 144,200,000 and is in line with the medium-term budgetary strategy programme increased by 1,19%, i.e. EUR 1,700,000. The increase is mainly due to the normal wage maturation of the staff of the Parliament and, above all, to the increase in the cost of regular monitoring of statements of assets by the accountants due to the widening of the number of persons controlled. The budget under consideration includes appropriations for parliamentary allowances, staff remuneration, commissions and necessary operating materials for the services, maintenance and repair of its buildings, as well as appropriations for the promotion of Parliament's work and for contributing to the promotion of national, social and cultural objectives. In the first category 21 employee benefits, the amount budgeted for 2022 amounts to EUR 111.381,000 compared to those spent in 2020 in the amount of EUR 108.534.100, mostly for payrolls. In category 22, social benefits relating to retirement allowances for staff with regard to employment of private law and various benefits to natural persons. For 2021 it is budgeted at EUR 763,000 compared to the amount of EUR 744,000 spent in 2020. In the third category 23 transfers, where are the current domestic transfers of external entities to OTAs and other legal persons, contributions and contractual obligations of our Parliament to international organisations. These are the external investment grants, as I said before, legal decisions and others, which amount to EUR 3,769 000. The amounts spent in this part of the budget in the financial year 2020 amounted to an excellent amount of EUR 9,822,300, because during the implementation of the budget there was an increase in the initial appropriations by EUR 6,785,400 in order to meet the great need to build fifty intensive treatment units at the General Hospital of Diseases “SHOTRICE” in the context of Parliament's participation in the treatment of the major epidemiological crisis. In the fourth category 24, it is also the great contribution of the Greek Parliament to dealing with this great pandemic that still afflicts humanity. The fourth category 24 for purchases of goods and services for the financial year 2022 amounted to EUR 25,041,000 against 2020, where they have finally been spent EUR 18,512,100. For category 26 concerning interest that had not been budgeted during the previous financial period, an amount of EUR 10,500 was increased during the year. In category 29, the allocation appropriations are the special reserve of the Parliament and for the year 2021 is set at EUR 100,000.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Highlands, slowly finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, I felt that as rapporteur I had the fifteenth but...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u8	No, it's five minutes. Everybody's got five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u9	All right, then I will not go into the overall analysis. I shall therefore close so that I do not abuse time, since the committee responsible, as I said before, has checked all the figures and the Court of Auditors as regards and the functioning of the Parliamentary Institute for Parliamentary and Democracy, has made it quite clear that its accounts are transparent. On this occasion, and I personally would like to address again to the Greek Plenary Assembly, to my dear ones, the French word came to me - fountainelle...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u10	Partners.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u11	Officers of the Boulevard of the Greeks who, in an exemplary way, absolutely and simply, if you like, give a 24-four-fourth-fourth-fourth-fourth-fourth-fourth-fourth-fourth-fourth-fourth-fourth-fourth-fourth-fourth-fourth-fourth-fourth-fourth-fourth-fourth-fourth-fourth-fourth-fourth-fourth-fourth-fourth-fourth-centurn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u12	SYRIZA's general rapporteur, Mr Tropho Alexiadis, who is more familiar with numbers, will take the floor. Mr Alexiadis will of course have a relative tolerance. Here, Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. One would say that today we have a number debate. But it is not a number debate, it is a political debate. And quite rightly in his introduction, the President of Parliament spoke of the obligations of the House towards democracy and the Constitution, I would like to endorse, stress and praise what he said about the issue of the spread of the virus and how to deal with pandemic. We really need to deal with the pandemic that takes a tragic dimension with vaccination and in any other way we can. However, I will not go into this more than that, but we have, as a Parliamentary group, tabled such requests, related proposals for debate and I hope that next time we will discuss this issue in detail. I would like to stress, Mr President, what you have said and what other Members have said about preventing the spread of the virus, quite rightly! However, I would like to begin my speech, since it is my first speech after a political incident that we had in the country, to prevent the spread of a 'institutional diversion'. Because it is an institutional diversion of what has been made against a member of the Greek Parliament, against the MEP Chania Pavlos Paulakis, and it does not matter whether he is a dear friend and partner, it does not matter, it is a Member of the Greek Parliament and from whatever party he was - and here I expect a clear position from all parties - we must have a clear position. In other words, we have an institutional diversion, because a civil servant, taking advantage of his position, intervened in the functioning of the House, violated the Constitution, illegally - it is the most polite phrase I can say - outright and insulted the authority of the House. Yesterday we asked the committee because it was the first sitting after the event, for Parliament to ask for exemplarily to start disciplinary checks. The House will not impose sanctions, but the House must call for disciplinary checks for the purpose of protecting democracy and the Constitution. Composition: I do not have the logic that we must have any specific tax privileges, any other kind of privileges or any exception in relation to other citizens. I am barely ready to come forward or initiate a dialogue that we will defend the role of the Member, speaking of wage issues, tax issues, special prerogatives and so on. Others - to make this dialogue - and someone else trying at a critical time to take advantage of their position and initiate such procedures, as if there were no other loose ends for that official to deal with, as if there were no on the Internet with a number of reports on how he handled other judicial cases and 'adventures', as the relevant agency pointed out, did what he did. There is the view - I respect it, but I disagree with it - that some people feel that the public prosecutor's admission to mistakes is honest. I believe that, in the interests of defending the role of Parliament, this disciplinary control must be requested by Parliament so that this virus does not change to a pandemic. You understand the responsibility of all of us if this 'passover' is repeated. I'm on this point. I come to the subject we are discussing today in plenary. As I said in committee, the House has nothing to hide. The House is a process of transparency and public dialogue. Races have been given on this issue, and quite rightly at its beginning the special report that has been given to us in the third paragraph, says 'the Parliament's budget for the year 2022 is fundamentally aimed at more effective and more transparent functioning of Parliament' and much more. The budget itself, the balance sheet itself. Because, for transparency, we all agree and we are doing well, and it is necessary, as I said yesterday in committee, to close the chapter on what has happened in the past, what happened yesterday and the previous time. To be transmitted from the channel of Parliament to the committee in question. To publish on the site of Parliament all relevant material. There is no point in any secret or anything else, because anyway, after today's sitting, all the data will enter the Minutes of this House. There's no need for that. So to make such moves, so that we do not give anyone the opportunity to say anything or to use any argument against the House. Two comments. First of all, the committee responsible should implement what is laid down in the Rules of Procedure. I will not go into this in detail. And the President of the committee responsible said yesterday that the next time, of course, compared to 2022, we will move in this direction. So I don't have to add to this. I would just like to stress that it is a problem that we have to discuss an economic account without having previously discussed the administrative balance sheet. So indirectly we approve administrative acts or administrative acts that have been made or any decisions taken on the functioning of the House - without any doubt with the best intentions - and with full transparency and with what is laid down in the Constitution. We do not raise this issue, and that is why we are voting on it. I would point out, however, for reasons of protection of the House, that there is a need for the committee's most frequent meeting and for the implementation of what is laid down in the Rules of Procedure. I think that, precisely for reasons of transparency and better functioning of the House, there should be a meeting and discussion of what will eventually be depicted throughout this process. I would also like to close and respect Parliament's time and schedule, because there is another sitting after that, to stress the thanks of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and congratulations to the staff of the House and to portray very thoroughly all the economic sizes and their full contribution to the process and functioning of the House. As I said yesterday, I should also like to congratulate them on their patience as sometimes outrageous or, in any case, curiously - I do not want to use any other expressions on the Internet and start writing things - they are sounded here and endured. Especially those who work in the department who need to record and capture in the Minutes what we say here, to congratulate them on their patience. I would like, however, on this occasion - because the good words are not enough - to say that we must finally resolve the issues of wage simulation, as has been voted on - and rightly so - the House for other ministries, such as the Ministry of Finance and other sectors, to resolve the issues of industrial relations. It is not possible for us in this House, who are dealing with such matters in other ministries, to have the officials of this House unresolved who are making a great contribution to the functioning of this Parliament. Thank you very much for your time. Have a good time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. From the Change Movement, the special speaker, Christos Gokas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that the independent functioning of a leading institution of the Hellenic Republic, the Greek Parliament, is linked to the objectivity, transparency and good management of its economic operation. We refer also to the procedure for implementing the budget, which concerns expenditure and expenditure on the needs of its operation and benefits to workers in this area, together with benefits to Members, and support for various social, cultural and other activities. Thus, the budget of the Greek Parliament, its preparation and implementation should reflect the validity and reliability of its independent functioning. In fact, it concerns the cost of operating democracy in our country and in general, the credibility and prestige of the political system, the parliamentary work and the dignified and unequal participation and operation of Members in their parliamentary obligations. Because, we have said so before, the genuine representation of citizens is guaranteed by equal opportunities for participation, without being the economic parameter for exclusion, in practice, by claiming that it is a citizens' choice. And all of this to the extent of prudent and not wasteful procedure, as it formed after the necessary cuts that began in 2009-2010, cuts which, as the President said, reached about 40%, so as to ensure the effectiveness of Parliament's operation as a minimum. In this development, our party, in a responsible and uncalculated manner, has made progress in the first years of the crisis, with the necessary cuts in Parliament's budget, while the governments at the time of the PASOK have adopted a number of provisions on transparency and the responsibilities of political persons in the management of public money, transparency everywhere and in the House with everything you had to do, control the parties' finances, the lifting of bank secrecy and much more. Ladies and gentlemen, from EUR 222 million in 2009, Parliament's budget was gradually reduced to EUR 141.9 million in 2014, reduced by approximately EUR 80 million, i.e. 36.12% and with a final expenditure this year even less, to EUR 133.85 million. Today the budget for 2022, EUR 144.2 million, is reduced by EUR 77.8 million compared with 2009, about 35%, while the maximum reduction was at 40.1% in 2017. It is also worth noting in response to various comments that the Parliament's budget, the cost of operating the democracy we have said, these EUR 144,2 million, refers to a minimum of 0,224% of all state expenditure, which, according to the preliminary draft budget for 2022, amounts to EUR 64,35 billion. The cost of running the Greek Parliament is one of the smallest among the countries where democracy exists and works. Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, which in our country has endured the crisis, has time and problems in its operation and enemies, and it is our duty to support and protect itself from any risk, by providing the necessary institutional, legal and financial means. It is the responsibility of all the political forces to isolate voices and practices that undermine and insult the prestige and lead to the destabilisation of the state institutions of this Parliament, which harms democracy itself. And that is of particular importance, since these days, with a peak on tomorrow's day, we honour the anniversary of the Polytechnic and those who fought, especially those who gave their own lives, for freedom and democracy in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, this year's budget is relatively simple, but it covers the necessary operating costs of Parliament, as well as expenditure on the gradual modernisation of the equipment. For us, the objectives of the Greek Parliament's budget are about its reliable management and cost savings, exhausting all margins, but not at the expense of efficiency. It is important that Parliament's function is synchronised with technological developments, with the continuous upgrading of its electronic and digital operation, as well as projects should continue, on the energy upgrading and the building and its facilities with energy savings and a reduction in pollution, in the context of tackling the problems of climate change and the effects on health, as they have emerged from the pandemic that we are facing, such as features of the air conditioning and ventilation of the space, which I have detailedly referred to in the committee yesterday. With regard to the figures for the present budget, I would also like to mention that the increase in the budget for 2022 by EUR 1,901,700, i.e. 1.34%, compared to the total appropriations for 2021, is mainly due to an increase in the cost of checking declarations from where it was due to the enlargement of the number of persons controlled. We are positive about what strengthens the credibility of institutions in the eyes of citizens. It also includes expenditure covering Parliament's outward action needs, international cooperation and social provision. To note in particular the donation to the National Health System of ambulances and surgical beds. Projects are being carried out or planned that do not bear the budget of the Greek Parliament, financed by the NSRF, the Green Fund, such as the promotion and maintenance of the building, the energy upgrade, to which I referred before, the Smoke Station, which was developed by the President. The cost of running the State Budget Office in Parliament is EUR 450,000, whose contribution we consider to be positive, as well as the cost of operating the Special Office for the Audit of Assets, EUR 3,127,000. I referred a moment ago to this area. Please also note in the 2020 report that in the increases, most of it relates to transfers of EUR 6,785.000 due to the decision of Parliament, on a proposal from the Change Movement at the time of the memorable Fofi Gennamata, with its well-known sensitivity to social, political and, in particular, health, a proposal accepted by the President of the Parliament and then voted by the Greek Parliament to cover the costs of building fifty beds of ICU at the Hospital "SOTRI". Finally, there is no provision for 2022 for the Greek Parliamentary Institute, since the expenditure provided for in the previous budget for an event of EUR 2,000,000 and for educational actions of EUR 500,000 due to COVID -19 has not been incurred, and it is worth noting that the Foundation has a net position of EUR 19,475 000. In conclusion, I would like once again to express our satisfaction and our confidence and also to thank the Change Movement, but also himself, the services and officials of Parliament for the methodical and integrated preparation of the draft budget, and for its proper implementation, as well as the staff of Parliament, which provides its positive services and supports our work, Parliament's work, particularly in recent difficult years with major crises, economic and health. Of course, we must also recognise the special contribution made by the President of the Commission and President of the Greek Parliament, Mr Tasoula, to this result. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of what I have said, and with the responsibility attached to the top institution of our democratic culture, we are voting in favour of both the 2020 budget and the 2022 budget of the Greek Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u16	Niko, will you play the role of "two in one" now or when Parliament's turn comes?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u17	Now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u18	I mean that the Communist Party of Greece has designated the same colleague as Parliamentary representative and as a special speaker. Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Parliament's draft budget for 2022 also stresses the need to upgrade Parliament's activities and functions. But we are dealing with a Parliament, a bourgeois institution, the legislative body which forms a vast grid, an integrated framework for the merging of the individual and collective rights of the working class, the people and the youth. In the name of ensuring capitalist profitability, which is the highest principle and driving lever of the capitalist system, sacrifices labour rights, sacrifices the modern satisfaction of our people's overall needs, by shaping mechanisms that are at economic level, education, health, reproduces a very cheap and consumable labour force without built-in rights. It forms mechanisms for the armoring of civil power, a legislative framework to challenge individual and collective rights and to legitimise state and employers' violence and repression. In conditions of a rotting capitalist system, the urban Parliament cannot be a light exception, but the degeneration of the system is also reflected in this. In conclusion, under conditions of the dictatorship of capital, the urban Parliament provides legality and at the same time tries to obscure the reactionary nature of the system. The Communist Party of Greece is well known, fighting for the overthrow of capitalism, fighting for socialism. Socialist power is a revolutionary power of the working class, the dictatorship of the proletariat. Labour power replaces all urban institutions with new, folklore institutions. The basis of the labour power is the production unit, the social service, the administrative unit, the productive cooperative. The assembly of workers is founded on direct and indirect labour democracy, the principle of control, the efficiency of responsibility and the irreversibility. Election right to socialist power means that the worker elects and is elected to all the institutions of power, controls and revokes advisers and representatives. The working time of the members of the bodies elected shall be regulated by the workplace and for a certain period of time, the period of election and by the size of their duties. Legislatively conceals any economic privilege to the elected. That is why the Communist Party of Greece, not only during the memorial period and then, when they found the opportunity and became a series of populist slogans covering both the substance of the bourgeois Parliament and its representatives, was opposed, voted against and called for the abolition of the parliamentary prerogatives. And precisely because they have to keep up with the projects, it has - and implements - this policy for the JRC Members, who are paid to the minimum wage, and parliamentary compensation is transferred to the whole of the party's funds, for the political activity of the JRC. So the first issue is the abolition of privileges. Secondly, we also demand that Parliament as a whole upgrade the role and position of workers, that the losses which they have had over the years, the years of crisis and the memoranda be recovered, that the gaps with permanent staff be covered as a response to the intensification of work. Improving the position of workers in Parliament is not a matter of overtime. It is a question of such a level of wages that meets all the needs. It is a question of reducing working hours and maintaining leisure time. It is a matter of abolishing the multiple working relationships in Parliament which all governments have done and of course of turning all workers into an indefinite period of time despite the constitutional ban. I would remind you here that during the revision of the Constitution, both New Democracy and SYRIZA rejected the proposal of the JRC to abolish the ban on the conversion of fixed-term contracts into contracts of indefinite duration provided for by the Constitution. Two more specific points we want to make. At a time when the pandemic does not say to be cut, there are problems, there cannot be a reduction in the Parliament's budget in our view, in the light of this, of small expenditure on the health materials used in this House and of cleanliness materials. Secondly, it was not understood why this reduction should be made by EUR 124,000 of expenditure relating to the promotion of the programme and the so-called copyright of the Parliament's channel. We're not asking to degrade, but we're afraid that's how it's going to happen. It can be degraded both the work of the channel of the Parliament and the cultural content of the Parliament's television. To conclude, Mr President, the Communist Party of Greece votes 'at present' in both the budget for 2022 and the 2020 budget. It is a political vote, clarifying in the 2020 report that our position is not related to the way economic sizes were captured, it is not about how the funds were managed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, can I make a clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u22	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u23	The amount of health material actually seems to have been limited, but this is because part of the health material is purchased by reservations from Members' wages and this is not reflected in the budget. In other words, the Members themselves are financing a part of the market in sanitary materials that escapes the record of the budget. So it seems that there has been a cutback, while the funding is from elsewhere. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u24	Good. Mr. Viliardos Vassiliou, special speaker from the Greek Solution, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr President of Parliament, we will begin with the positive event that Parliament's budget was significantly reduced from 220 million in 2009 and 215 million in 2010 to 139.4 million in 2020, while it is estimated at 144.2 million in 2022 from 142.3 million in 2021. This is a 35% reduction compared to 2009, which, if it were to happen throughout the public sector, would be a great advantage for our country. According to the President of Parliament, the restriction came mainly from the reduction in the remuneration of staff and, in particular, Members, so it would be unfair to claim that they did not participate in the austerity imposed on Greece. Unfortunately, however, this austerity in the way it has been implemented with the memoranda that of course continue, as the Deputy Minister of Finance has recently confirmed, not only did it not help our economy, but instead completely ruined it. So the sacrifices of all Greeks did not offer anything at all. They served only the rescue of German and other banks, said President Obama in his well-known book. In any case, we have seen that this is a rational report, as well as a 2022 household budget for which the President of Parliament should be proud, and it would be a good job for our state to function accordingly. Unfortunately, however, it is not the case, since we all know that the government spends huge sums on lending - with lending, we will constantly stress it - by charging the Greeks even more, noting that 42.7 billion has been spent in just two years, most of them in relation to its GDP compared to the other countries of the European Union, it has not wasted any other government until now. In continuing, we agreed to the committee with the proposal by colleagues that, firstly, the budget and the balance sheet should be sent in electronic form and, secondly, that we should be posted on Parliament's website so that there is transparency on the one hand that we can also be facilitated with regard to their control. Because it is now the same proposal in 2020, but without it being implemented, we hope that the omission will not be repeated in the near future. However, we were particularly pleased to note that, since 2023, the dual accounting system will be applied in Parliament since it has been a permanent proposal for the entire public sector since the first day they entered the House, considering it to be one of the reasons for its ineffective operation. In particular, with regard to the Foundation of the Parliament, which has been subsidised with a huge sum to celebrate the two hundred years since 1821, for which we had already tabled our objections in 2020, it is good that they were finally given little, but hopefully that they would not be wasted even in 2022 in the state of our economy. Besides, there is absolutely no point in celebrating Greece's liberation once again, of course, this time, but we consider economic slavery much worse than the military. Why is it worse? It is simply because when a state loses its freedom of the military it can be recovered by reacting and fighting, while when it is lost financially, i.e. when everything it has and has not remained in debt, as is foreseen for Greece that will remain in debt, it is never unfortunately recovered. Needless to say, there is no national sovereignty without economic independence, which everyone who is not blinded in the past will have seen, and will continue to do so in the future. Furthermore, the cost savings of the House appear to the staff who, of the two thousand seventy-seven, had only a thousand, seventy-seven, despite the pressures of the pandemic, on 31 May of 2021, only a thousand, seventy-seven, in this case, despite the pressures of the pandemic, without being at the expense of the quality of Parliament's operation. However, we must note here that it is exemplary to manage the pandemic on the part of the House again in complete contrast with the government which has failed, just as in the economy and society. We must also know the social work of this House, such as the fifty ICUs it built in just two months, something strange about public policy, aid to Matti and so much more, which it provides by saving money from its operating costs. What has, however, particularly bothered us as a party, as a Greek Solution, as regards the functioning of the House is the non-respect of minority rights in the example of the two requests for a committee of inquiry we have tabled, for the Ambassadors and for the Eye, which have not been promoted. As the President of Parliament said, he did not push them forward because they would not be accepted by a hundred and twenty Members - that is what we at least understood - which we in the end cannot understand, since we did not see the President approved in the revised Constitution. This means that it is a pretext to submit requests for examination by ten Members, as provided for in the revised constitution, hoping at some point that we will be given a responsible answer which Mr Gerapetitis has not recently provided. In conclusion, we would like to thank the staff of the House for the very good services it provided, which is a clear example - I really say it - for all the workers in the public sector and not just for all the workers in the public sector. Finally, we are of course voting in favour of both the 2020 report and the 2021 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u26	We're finishing with my colleague, Mrs. Maria Apajidis, from Mera25. The ladies and gentlemen who sit on my left today are the stars, as you understood. But I am now addressing all my fellow Members, saying that it is right to remember them for three hundred and sixty-five days a year and not one day a year and to defend them when unnecessarily media and expose them. Here, Mrs. Apajidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. The main purpose of Parliament's budget is efficiency and transparency, in order to carry out legislative functions, in accordance with the Constitution, and to monitor the implementation. In this period, in which we are experiencing a double crisis, economic and health, modern information systems and tools are needed, as well as the modernisation of the procedures, but also the extroversion of the House to society by means of transparency and accountability, so as to mitigate any distrust caused by the crises we are facing. In addition, the budget contains various types of costs of a non-profit institution, costs for repair of buildings, supplies of building materials, consumables, equipment, such as computers, air conditioners, etc., fixed costs for energy, water, telephone communications etc., rent and natural fees for services. It also provides for appropriations intended to show Parliament's work and to contribute to the promotion of national, social and cultural objectives. The objective is promoted for an overall upgrading of the House and for a brave opening to society, to modern problems, to new scientific potential, to particular social and cultural sensitivities within the environment of the crisis and its effects on society as a whole. Parliamentary diplomacy and the development of multilateral international relations are also being strengthened. In addition, we are dealing with the coronary pandemic, which has not been eradicated. So digital means are needed with the use of information and communication technology applications, as well as the administrative support of the parliamentary body with the best methods of organisation and administration. However, we would like to make a practical comment here. Usually the bills we receive are in a non-processable form of PDF, making it difficult to process them during the consultation. This is particularly wrong for us, the small parties, who have fewer partners in the political planning for this preparation. Mr President, we should take care that bills are sent in PDF formats which are editable. We also want to make a political comment here. The annual expenditure for the operation of Parliament, including Parliament's remuneration, is mainly used by the neoliberal extreme right as an indirect vehicle to corroborate Parliament's legitimacy in citizens' consciences. The general logic is that our House costs us, we don't need it. In this respect, however, the logic is that what costs us and we do not need it is democracy itself. A study of the annual expenditure shows, however, that it is a minimum percentage of GDP, which in any case needs democratic institutions to operate. So, as a PART25, we are not generally in favour of this criticism. The challenges of the so-called crisis make it necessary to extrovert the House with the sponsorship programme to meet requests from legal persons, institutions, educational institutions and refugee structures. However, the House does not exist to replace public structures and the welfare state and the State's general constitutional obligations. It exists to legislate, but also to check that the individual authority makes its work legally and socially optimal. Sadly, however, this role of control is often undermined by the excessive power gained by the media as the fourth power, which reduces control over the executive rather than exerting it, as it should and allies with it at the expense of legislative power and its own control. Of course, we must always keep in mind what is the aim of the House. Aiming is the maximum satisfaction of the needs for the proper functioning of Parliament at the least cost, but without any discount on the necessary democratic functions. This requires transparency in contracts with suppliers, namely their posting to Parliament's Transparency. At the same time, Parliament must finance educational programmes, actions, interventions and actions that foster the participation of citizens in the democratic city. In conclusion, we consider that the philosophy of expenditure does not serve to the extent that it should be openness, deserved sovereignty and respect for the minority groups, and that is why we will be voting'residents'. And thank us as Merra25 and the Services, as well as the officials of the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u28	The rapporteurs and speakers have been completed. Let's move on. Someone else has spoken, someone else has left. Let me ask Mrs. Lightning Arabaji if she wants to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u29	Is Mr. Zachariadis going to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Zachariadis apologized to me for having an urgent job and told me that he was fully covered by Mr. Alexiadis. So he won't take the floor. Mr. Karathanasopoulos spoke. Two others I don't see in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u31	Good. I'll take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u32	Here, you have the floor for five minutes as Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since I too congratulate the Bureau and, of course, all the officials in this House who are involved in this important task, I would like to congratulate them on the exemplary functioning of Parliament in the midst of a pandemic with the uninterrupted parliamentary control which, of course, the government is consistently responding to, but also for the uninterrupted and extremely rich legislative initiative that has been taken and carried out here at the National Representation in the midst of a pandemic. I would like to say that, in addition to the exemplary function, adaptability, which has been demonstrated without depriving anything of representativeness and parliamentarianism, it is noteworthy that Parliament's new instability in terms of green, energy transition and upgrading of the House for energy saving and, of course, environmentally friendly compliance. I would like to point out and note the real use of the so-called public property, as far as the former public tobacco factory is concerned, to which Mr Tassoulas referred yesterday and today to the committee, with the best use of Community funds, of course. I should like to highlight the cultural contribution of the Parliament, with a coronary of course the events for the completion of the two centuries from the Greek Revolution, especially its social face, its social work with the support of the needs that it has created, unfortunately, the pandemic with ambulances, breathing support mechanisms, beds of METH. This is all done and done, despite the fact that the House and rightly - I stress it - has adapted to the economic crisis data with the similar generous cuts, with a 35% reduction in its budget from 2011 onwards. In particular, however, I would like to congratulate and very importantly, as the debate on the substance here is on the - within introductory terms - 'cost of democracy', the transparency of the procedure, which is being followed. I would like to mention this on the occasion of what Mr Alexiadis said about the publicity of the meeting. The necessary publicity, which we endorse, is guaranteed as you understand in today's public debate in Parliament. I say this because, according to Rule 108(6) of the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, bills and proposals of laws which pass through the committee with 4/5 do not enter the House. However, this debate - and rightly so - is being discussed in plenary by a decision of the Conference of Presidents. We therefore also endorse, in fact, the transparency that you are discussing. In transparency and good administration, it is decisive to extend the number of persons controlled with the result, of course, that the cost of the ordinary budget is increased by the control of statements of assets from among the accountants. In conclusion, transparency, adaptability, good administration, intense extroversion, particular social and environmental sensitivity are, I think, the features conducive to the debate on the approval of the Parliament's budget that we have debated today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u34	And we're going to keep up with all the time. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrinis from Elias, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that almost all of the wings, to the overwhelming majority, mean and agrees with the approval of both the report and the budget of the House, precisely because it wants to pass this message of strengthening the democratic functioning of our society, which expresses characteristics and privileges in this area. We are talking about Parliament's budget which, as has rightly been said, had to adapt to the conditions of the time, in difficult conditions several years ago, when unfortunately the temple of democracy was targeted and easily characterised by too many of our compatriots. And unfortunately, I fear that this feeling remains today. Whenever there is a crisis or criticism of the civil system and the political system, the first objective is the Parliament. And many times, what we are talking about is the operating costs of both parliamentary and civilisation. That is why we must not only look, but also be honest and pioneer and show the way in this direction of prudence, containment and adaptation to modern budgetary conditions. I believe and believe that with the very characteristic presence and presidency of Mr Tassoula, whoever on these issues is ruthless, but I think he is giving an example, and this year we are going to a budget that really meets these conditions. There is, of course, the question of whether there should be a debate on the cost of democracy, and whether this criticism, which is being criticised very easily, should lead us essentially to debilitate parliamentaryism with visible risks, which, as a country we have often paid for in the past, when parliamentarianism was devastated and led to national tragedies. Here, therefore, there must be a delicate balance between the need to operate and modernise Parliament and its functions - which, of course, I think are irreplaceable and we can only express, with great ease, our thanks to the staff and the services of Parliament, who always support all this well-functioning - but also, on the other hand, to the social character of Parliament, which I think must now get away from the walls and show that on many issues it is taking initiatives, makes important moves to offer and support and support people and vulnerable groups and situations, as it has done very recently in the pandemic case. So I think that this climate that is going through this Chamber today is very important that we have an anniversary that is related to the restoration of democratic culture and parliamentaryism in our country, this message of understanding, agreement on a function of well-ordered and rationalized, but which enables the city to develop in a modern way all the means and services and that there is this dialogue that ended in the period of pandemic because of objective and not just conditions. But it is now coming back and it is our responsibility and all the wings of this House to continue to operate in this harmony. And this debate on the budget and the report of the House today gives us a first-class opportunity to see where we can convene and agree, to move this message to Greek society, so that this House is not the subject of easy and unsatisfactory criticism and unfairness too many times, so that we give an example to the young generations of the need to respect and appreciate the value of parliamentaryism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u36	The positions of the Parliamentary representatives have also been completed. Mrs Mani - Papadimitriou, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget of Parliament's expenditure and the adoption of the budget for the previous year is an extremely important parliamentary procedure, because, on the one hand, it ensures the efficient operation of the Greek Parliament and, on the other, ensures the necessary transparency regarding the cost of its services. Before I refer to some of the key points in the budget in 2022 - in addition, it has been done in detail with regard to the subcategories and the President of Parliament and Mr Ypsilantis - I would like to congratulate the Parliament's Budget Office and all the addresses that have contributed to this integrated effort and under very difficult circumstances have been systematically achieved, with specific tables and detailed information, to accurately compile the Parliament's operating expenditure for the coming year. After all, I could not fail to congratulate the President of Parliament, Mr Constantino Tsoulus, not only on a series of initiatives that demonstrate the extroversion and the social face of the Greek Parliament, but also because under the unprecedented conditions of the pandemic the House did not stop for one day carrying out its constitutional mission, which is no other than the legislative and parliamentary control of the executive. Coming now into the 2022 budget, we find that, in order to prepare its economic size, basic criteria remain the modernisation of the operation of Parliament's services, the integration of modern information systems and technologies, the rational use of its resources and infrastructures, and the strengthening of Parliament's actions towards citizens and society. The budget for next year is increased compared with last year. It is an increase, however, which is mainly due to the cost of regular monitoring of statements of assets due to the widening of the number of persons controlled. However, it is undeniable that this budget is also adapted to the current budgetary conditions of our country and reduced by about 60% compared to the budgets before the economic crisis. Then, with regard to the budget and the balance sheet of the Foundation of the Hellenic Parliament for Parliament and the Republic, which also comes for approval as a separate section, in the midst of an unprecedented health crisis, I can say that it has been prepared with responsibility and efficiency, while taking care of the correct and orderly administrative function and the ever-increasing expansion of the Foundation's extroversion through multiple actions. Furthermore, what I would really like to stand on is a series of praiseworthy initiatives and projects, which are not charged with Parliament's budget, but are implemented through the use of resources coming from the NRP and the Green Fund. I am thinking of restoring the historical building of the House, its energy upgrade, the replacement of internal and external lighting with modern and energy advantageous solutions. And of course, in my capacity as chairman of the Library Committee of the House, I would like to congratulate the initiatives for the re-establishment of the Benaque Library in Parliament's historic and preserved property building. I would also like to refer to the master plan, the integrated strategic plan for rehabilitation, promotion and integrated recovery through resources of the NSRP of the former Public Sprinkler on Lenoman Street, a historic building of nineteen thousand square meters. These are initiatives that enhance the Greek Parliament as a whole, as well as its social and cultural work. After all, the social and humanitarian work of the House was evident and in this year's year, and this is how I come to account for the expenditure of 2021. For example, the House was present with the cost of building fifty intensive care units at the “Save” Hospital, sponsoring a brand new ambulance, disbursing about EUR 6.5 million for rebuilding the area in Matti and with other initiatives and actions similarly. All these initiatives of the Greek Parliament highly rank the Greek Parliament in the consciousness of every Greek citizen not only as a cradle of democracy, but also as an institution of essential social provision that is so quick to help wherever and whenever necessary. After all, I am voting on the budget for Parliament's expenditure for the year 2022, a budget with a social and cultural amount which preserves, above all, the uninterrupted functioning of Parliament and serves democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u39	Mr. President, could I have the floor for a while?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u40	Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Karathanasopoulos is very observant. In fact, it seems that in 2022 intellectual rights payments are being reduced. However, this is because the payments made in 2021, that is, this year, have been for two years to reach a better economic agreement and thus have been exempted in 2022 from such obligations. However, this has actually been covered because of the two-year power. I also wanted to say something interesting about the cost of democracy. This information comes from a very good publication by the Foundation of Parliament for the Constitution of 1864. In August 1863, the then English Ambassador Peter Campbell Scarlett sent a memorandum to the English Foreign Minister, Russell, on the constitutional situation in Greece, drafted by George Finley, who wrote the "History of the Greek Revolution". So Finley is talking about the issue of the progress of democracy and parliamentism in Greece. Of course, they are governed by a bit of arrogant perception, it has to do with the imperial incursions of his country. Because at that time there was a Senate and a parliament - this was abolished in 1864, but in 1863 there was a Senate and a parliament - it says that Senators should not be the poor. Poor people must become state officials and senators, so that there can be an aristocratic element in the city, which is a bit of a gheemy. He doesn't say "gemia", but that's what he means. In Finley's own report on Members, there are different views on how they should be paid. The point is, however, that the House for Finley should not have given as much importance to democracy as to talent. So you realise that these views that come through history and through a more aristocratic perception of things are inconsistent with the current views on the right of every citizen to claim a public post, much more a post that is as honorable as the Member. Fortunately, that Finley report did not prevail in Greek constitutionalism, and the poor may also be MPs and ministers and everything. I think that this thought is inverted by the whole populism, which also because of the crisis, but also because of misinterpretations of the crisis, has hit parliamentaryism. In any case, however, we cannot return and reward those views. I thank all my fellow Members for their position and for their remarks today and yesterday in the Committee on the budget of the House, which will ensure that we implement it as precisely as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u42	Good. The debate on the Draft Budget for the Parliament, for the financial year 2022, and on the Expenditure Report of the Parliament for the financial year 2020 and the Annex thereto (Review 2020 of the Parliamentary Foundation for Parliament and the Republic) is hereby terminated. We are entering the vote of the Expenditure Budget of the Parliament for the financial year 2022 by expense, results from its use and the total and financial statement of the Parliament for the financial year 2020 and its Annex (Report 2020 of the Parliamentary Foundation for Parliament and the Republic). Their vote will be taken separately. We note that the vote includes two fields: a) the Expenditure budget of the Parliament, for the financial year 2022 and b) the Expenditure Report of the Parliament, for the financial year 2020, and the Annex thereto (Report 2020 of the Parliamentary Foundation for Parliament and the Republic). I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u43	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u44	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u45	Therefore, following the completion of the vote with the electronic system, the Parliament's Expenditure Budget for the financial year 2022 was accepted by a single majority. Also, following the conclusion of the vote with the electronic system, Parliament's Expenditure Report for the financial year 2020 and its Annex (Assessment 2020 of the Parliamentary Foundation for Parliament and the Democracy) on costs, results from its use and overall, was accepted in a single debate also by a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u46	I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the Minutes of today's sitting in respect of the vote on the above Parliament's decisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u47	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point we will be adjourning the sitting by 12.15 p.m., so we will begin the debate on the bill of the Ministry of Culture. I would ask the parties' secretariats to ensure that they notify rapporteurs, speakers and Parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only debate and vote on the principle and the whole draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Following the Code of Law on the Protection of Antiquities and the General Heritage of Cultural Heritage". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 11 November of this year to discuss and vote for the bill at a meeting on the principle and on the whole in accordance with the procedure laid down for the codes in Rules 76 of the Constitution and 111 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. In particular, as regards the organisation of the debate, special speakers are proposed, apart from the rapporteurs, special speakers, the parliamentary representatives, as well as the ministers, and a circle of speakers with a priority that will include a speaker from each parliamentary group, as well as a 12-member circle of speakers with a ratio of five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the Communist Party of Greece, one from the Greek Solution and one from Mera25. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u49	The House has agreed. Before I give the floor to the rapporteurs, the Minister wants to make a clarification and certainly the development of a provision, as he has the right to do. It is also provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate the clarification that the text of the code has been tabled this way, as formulated by the Central Committee for Codification, without any change. After all, we have also tabled the letter from the chairman of the committee and the articles in question, particularly the 66 and 71, which mainly concerned the Committee on Forums. I would like to note something about Article 66. I referred in detail to Rule 66 and to the referral made to Article 16, which expressly refers to the whole of Chapter III, namely the territorial arrangements. The committee therefore considers that it will not leave anything uncovered. However, as there was a lot of discussion - and with intensity - on Rule 26, we again addressed the Central Committee on Codification and yesterday I received the following letter from the President, which I shall read and submit on the Minutes of the House. "The Central Coding Committee at its meeting..." -15-11-2021 is the letter - "... decided to clarify that in the preparation by it of the draft code of law on the protection of antiquities and the general cultural heritage, it was not intended to criminalise the most specific crimeulent infringements of Articles 15(5), 15A and 16 of that draft Code and much more of the felony character of ancient (theft, misappropriation, etc.).(')'. I think that here, through its chairman, the committee is clear and unequivocal. And it continues: ‘If, however, it is appropriate, in order to avoid any misinterpretation, an explicit reference should be made to the above provisions by Article 66 of that draft Code’. [[At this point, the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Styliani Mendoni, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So here we have the agreement of the committee. And in the debate we have had, we believe that it can only be done because it concerns criminal provisions, and there is particular interest in the issues of criminal law, that we should proceed to this type of legislative improvement, despite the fact that it is not customary for the codes to make improvements of this kind. ‘In the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 of Article 66 of the Code of Law on the Protection of Antiquities and in general the cultural heritage ratified by Article 1 of the draft law, instead of the words ‘and Articles 13 and 14’, the words ‘Articles 13 and 14, Article 15(5) and 15A and 16’ shall be inserted. I think that, in the most clear and unequivocal way, both the Committee on Codification and the Government state - and throws light on everything that was heard yesterday in the committee - that it has nothing to hide and absolutely fear nothing. The committee did its job right. The plan was adopted and submitted to Parliament. However, due to the specificities of the criminal provisions, the Government is making this legislative improvement with the agreement of the Central Coding Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u51	Before we enter their speeches...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u53	Wait a minute, Mrs. Anagnostopoulos. That is what I would like to ask now if the rapporteurs or the parliamentary representatives of the parties would like to make a comment on what the Minister said. Here you go, Mrs. Ignastopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, I listened carefully to the Minister. With what he said from the outset about the formal part - which is essential - it seems that the ratification of the Code of Conduct we have today did not follow a procedure which is truly worthy of the parliamentary and democratic morality and politics of this place. The Minister is now coming to make legislative, legislative and legal improvements, which are a substantial improvement, to ratification of a code, where the Constitution is strictly referred to, and even to the law, that she is unable - and we all know that - to change the code when it comes to voting. So our objections to the committee were very well founded, that on a day that was given to the committee, we had no time to study and see what is happening. Secondly, the Minister said nothing to us about Article 71, which is completely deleted from the Code without being present in the explanatory statement, and there we have very serious problems with regard to criminal provisions. So I would like to ask, now, if we want to maintain parliamentary gravity and morality, withdraw the Code and discuss the way it should be discussed and changes made before it arrives in plenary. You cannot tolerate this procedure as President too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u55	Is there another colleague who wants to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u57	You have the floor, Mr. Buquore.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Since the issue that has been discussed in the committee is now under way, we are seeing a shift in the Officerial Response with a request to withdraw the code. I would like to inform my dear colleagues in the Vice-President that this is not the first time that we have had any legislative improvement in codes. It happened for the most serious crime of rape on June 6, 2019, when the then government of SYRIZA had introduced codes and for the crime of rape there were some changes in relation to the existing provisions. Then came the Minister of Justice, Mr Kalogerou, and, I read from the Minutes of Parliament, he said: "In agreement, and this is a matter that must be taken into account before we enter into the substantive debate of the codes, with the members of the nomadic committees and, because they are present and because we can do so, with a legislative improvement, paragraph 5 will be corrected in the direction of achieving a proper balance of law and of any other conduct in relation to the provisions of Article 336". There was a legislative improvement on the substance. Here the Minister explained very well, reading the letter of the Chairman of the Central Coding Committee, who claims that "although it is not necessary, you can make this legislative improvement in order to remove any misunderstandings and if you want this issue to be adequately lit up". That's right, that doesn't allow any legislative improvements to codes, etc. The Codes were also introduced as they were sent just by the Central Committee for Coding. There was no intervention. And now, with the agreement of the committee, this improvement is being made in order to prove to the most skeptical that there is nothing dark about it, there is nothing that is being attempted to hide under any circumstances. So the Civic Opposition not two metres and two weights. The codes brought by SYRIZA were tolerable, while in this code, which is agreed and the encouragement of the Central Codification Committee, we refuse and demand the withdrawal of the code. I think it's an attempt to create impressions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, I would like to add something. It's a very serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u61	Be patient, Mrs. Anagnastopoulou. You see I give the floor to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u62	Let Mr. Kegeroglu take the lead, I have no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u63	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. In committee we have expressed our comments on both articles where problems have been identified, both technical and legal and political, in the way they are incorporated into codification, and indeed we wondered whether there are others which we did not have time to see, find and consider. What the government has done today through the Minister is to admit that there is a matter, small or large, or otherwise it would not have made a statement, otherwise it would not have brought it up twice and would not have been addressed to the Committee on Codification. There's a matter. From the moment there is a question that can, in our view, be corrected, but quite rightly, not unorthodoxly, Mr President. What does that mean, in our view? Here we are discussing a draft law which is the first article to be coded. We're talking about a draft law. The draft law beyond the code may have an article. This article restores the true meaning of Articles 71 and this is the two which are, and then the code incorporate these articles, since they will have been voted on as a precedent, within the code. This is the good piece of legislation, Mr President, even in cases where it comes to correcting criminality, I would say, which is the second cause after the pluralism of the system. In this sense, we ask the government to bring in within the period when we will come as the first article the true meaning of the two articles where there is ambiguity and disagreement and within the code to incorporate them as they have been reflected in their true meaning in the first article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. A comment on what has already taken place here in the first minutes of the meeting. Wrong legalization is the wrong legalization. The right legalization is a proper legalization. He doesn't give forgiveness, gentlemen of the government. Why do you keep saying that? You make a mistake, because this is a mistake today that you are doing, it is not right to legislate, but you do it because 'you also did it in SYRIZA', you say. I'm still a mistake made by previous people and I'm comparing "you did it, and I'm going to do it" or "don't talk about it, did you do that too"? Well, are we going to stick to the point of the case? The essence of the case is that the procedure followed is not the right one. Now, if SYRIZA did it, he didn't do it. What about you? Does he forgive you 'we're going to do it' and continue this wrong story? So we're tired of hearing it. And you know what, you rule, you don't rule SYRIZA or always compare to SYRIZA. Do something different. We're really tired in here, Mr. President, of hearing this story. In other words, "Oh, don't you talk, don't move our fingers because you're the first tutors." It's wrong. Respect Parliament, the Members, the procedures, the Rules of Procedure and everything else and stand up to the circumstances.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. We are not at all sure that the legislative improvement referred to in Article 66 is sufficient to cure the imperfections that codification had at the outset at this point. However, once this procedure has been opened, Minister, we invite you to enter, because it has not been done, Article 71 of the Law 3028. I do not know why this omission is due, but even now, since we have been in such a process of legislative improvements, this article 71 may also be added to today's codification of today's legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Gregoriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. We agree with everyone beforehand that this is not a bad thing, but an unacceptable way of legislating, Minister. We agree with Mr. Heta that if we do a hundred or two hundred or a century we don't care about that at all. We're interested in your things. You are now ruling for two and a half years, and if you continue a sin, you perpetuate it and it is very bad for the place. We remind the Greek people and the House that there has been little consultation on an extremely important issue, in our view, as is what we are discussing today. And, my dear Mr Boukoore, legalism, as Mr Delis said, is not at all sure that it is enough. And as soon as you mentioned it, you read it. Again we understand each other, just as we understood each other at 9 a.m., when the bill arrived at us. One and a half hours before we have to have positions. So we'll see if it restores and to what extent. We're very afraid it won't be the legal improvement you brought in. But until then, Minister, you really find a way and not just you, all the next ministers who will bring bills, do so in a way that is parliamentaryally correct. It exposes all of us here to our participation. Normally every time something that is unacceptable here we have to go, we have to tell the Greek people that it is unacceptable. We sit because we're consensual, but don't go on with it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u72	Do you want the floor, Mrs. Anagnostopoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u73	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u74	Mrs. Ignastopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u75	I would like to add to what has been heard that, since we have seen many errors and omissions since the code has been studied, because Article 71 is still pending, this legislative improvement is not enough, so that we can proceed with voting or voting against the code. It is very important that we know about the remaining errors or deviations in the code of conduct that the Minister takes, but also the Central Committee for Coding. Because, Mr Boukorore, you have invoked what has been done on SYRIZA, to hear it all, it was the nomadic committee present, and it has done well - of course, I will say it and I have no problem saying it - because there has been a reaction on the subject of rape, etc. It was very nice to see the substance of the matter, but it was wrong to change the parliamentary procedure within the House from the committee which itself gave it to it. But here, we have a number of problems. Rule 71, Minister. What about omissions and errors? I'm telling you one example. Article 34C, if I am not mistaken, of the code. It refers to an address that you had abolished, made it part, etc., returned to SYRIZA and you are wrong. You make mistakes of this type enough in the code that are not allowed. What's gonna happen? Are you going to make any legislative improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u77	Since there is a dentistry, you have the floor, Mr. Bukkoro.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u78	Mrs Anagnostopoulou, we are generally in agreement. You said that the change in codes on SYRIZA was well done on the substance...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u79	A change has taken place.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u80	..unfortunately for the parliamentary procedure. I agree, if you will, in part with you. Here you say that at the time the advisory committee was present. Here we have the letter from the Central Coding Committee, which says that it does not believe that there is a problem, but with this supplement, every part of this article is illuminated. And do you know what the warning is? Then it was a political choice and direction for the codes to come from and from the reactions of public opinion and political parties to change. This was not the case because the codes were introduced without any intervention, without any political direction, as was sent by the Central Committee for Coding.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u81	Everywhere there are extensions. There are changes, changes, Mr. Buquoir.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u82	I would ask that there be no dialogue. Finish it, Mr. Buquoir.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u83	There is no change and there is no change. It was introduced as sent by the Central Coding Committee. So a point has been made that can lead to misinterpretations. The government comes through the Minister, although it was not her own omission - we all understand that, since the codes were introduced in their contents - and instead of applauding this reflex, instead of applauding that the government is committed to parliamentary dialogue and hearing the remarks of the anti-population parties, you come and maximize the request for the withdrawal of the code in a way of pillistic 'take it all back', while the imperfection is corrected. This is an attempt to gain political benefits through the creation of impressions, but you are really violating open doors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u84	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Article 71. We have said so in committee, and I repeat it now and I repeat the opinion of the Central Coding Committee on why there is no change in Article 71. The provision of Article 71(1) of Law 3028/2002 no longer has any reason to exist, since the matter is governed by a special provision in the Code of Criminal Procedure and was therefore not included in the draft code. This is all the result of the Central Coding Committee. Moreover, Article 111(A5) of the new Code of Criminal Procedure, No. 4620/2019, the Tribunal of three-member courts is to judge, inter alia, the felonies of Law 3028/2002. Also since the entry into force of the new Criminal Code 71(2) has been abolished. It is Article 586 I of the new Code of Criminal Procedure. There is therefore no omission and no change. As for the point in the name of the Department of Documentation, this is indeed a mistake as it was filed in the codes. I'll repeat it for a pluralist time. Neither the relevant Secretariat for Parliamentary Affairs nor the Ministry of Culture intervened at any point, nor at all, in a party to the code as tabled by the Central Committee for Codification. So this part, which in no case corresponds to the possible ambiguity of 66, will obviously be restored by amending the provision in the next few days, outside the code. In 66 we are talking about it only because the criminal provisions are specific. If that is not understood by the Opposition, then I am really sorry. I'm sure it makes sense, just the whole attitude is to create impression that something is wrong. Well, nothing's wrong, the government's reflexes were excellent. We raised the matter under discussion in the Committee on Coding and, as our Parliamentary Representative said, in the period of 2019, is that instead of coming here the whole of the Central Committee, as was done in 2019 with Mr Kalogeros, there is the President's written letter. These are, not to go to two meters to other stations, and to make a fuss and impression.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u86	I would also like to say that, regardless of the theoretical positions which have been heard and which may have been taken on this matter, Parliament has repeatedly accepted legislative improvements. Recently, as has been said, there were also improvements made to the criminal law on election eves in June. That is where there were substantive provisions. It was, if I remember correctly, torture and rape. We do not have new provisions or amendments here, but they are mere legislative improvements that Parliament has accepted. Theoretically one can say that they must not be done either. This is another issue, but Parliament as a sovereign body has accepted these. Indeed, and at the time the Minister for Justice did not talk about legislative improvements, he said these amendments. So you realise that there is a precedent, and indeed there is - going back to the Minutes of the House to see the history of the case of the codes - since 2013, Parliament's decision on this, then on the Court of Auditors. We shall therefore proceed to the rapporteurs. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Baraliacos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today how our domestic cultural burden will have a holistic and codified piece of legislation which will facilitate all stakeholders and will give even stronger impetus to promoting and exploiting our culture. The ratification of the Legislative Code is therefore the law of the Government of New Democracy on the Final State, which primarily aims at the organisation, operation and transparency of the Government, government bodies and central government, as provided for in Article 65. In detail, codification of legislation aims to restructure the provisions, remove provisions that have been expressly or implicitly repealed and transitional provisions that no longer apply. In the recasting of texts in an identifiable language, the adaptation of provisions setting out administrative and other institutions' competences to the current organisational structure of the central and decentralised state services of the local government bodies and of legal persons in the public sector. The regulatory framework for the protection of cultural heritage, which is currently in force, is a derivative of legislative amendments, with the majority of the legislation being dispersed and dispersed. The aim, therefore, of the present codification in the spirit of legal provision for which the state is responsible, is to achieve a system of regulation to protect antiquities and cultural heritage through the inclusion in this code of all previously adopted legislation. Legal certainty is thus achieved, unity and opportunities to take the provisions from everyone. So, by extension, the confidence of the governors, the development dimension of our cultural heritage and the effectiveness of the state machine is strengthened. So codification of all the legislation on the protection of antiquities and cultural heritage is a process necessary but also innovative, since it is one of the first to take place. A self-evident legislative initiative that houses pluralism and maliciousness in this area is now taking place. I feel the need to reiterate and stress on this point what the codification process includes. Codification, therefore, involves removing the provisions that have been expressly or implicitly removed or have no scope anymore and recasting the texts in a simpler language, so that they can be made more understandable by everyone. It is not only limited to collecting and finding scattered laws, which are clearly the basic process, but not the only one. To conclude, what we have to keep from the process is that the code does not amend the provisions which already apply. All ten sections of the draft law codified the existing provisions, the content of which was transposed by the relevant legislation. Provisions adopted and in force. It is worth pointing out, furthermore, that the codification took into account the case law of the Council of State in clarifying certain provisions. With regard to legitimacy - further clarifications are necessary - in compliance with the requirements of Article 76(7) of the Constitution and Articles 5 and 24 of the Constitution, and with Community and international law, the rules assessed are related to the fourth subparagraph of Article 3(3) of the Treaty on European Union, Article 67 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Articles 22 and 25 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. However, let us look at the benefits of this arrangement as a whole. Initially, it improves public administration by simplifying and making information more accessible to the citizen, while strengthening the State's credibility towards citizens. It maximises the efficiency and effectiveness of policies implemented in the field of the protection of antiquities and cultural heritage. The regulatory material receives a new structure in a unique piece of legislation, to strengthen the fundamental principle of legal certainty, while saving time, due to its solid structure for those seeking access to it. Finally, the credibility of the administration is strengthened by the legal text to be recast in a more comprehensible language and provisions that have become obsolete are being deleted. As you can see, this is not a new bill in the real sense of the term. Therefore, it is not a burden on the state budget, since it comes to codify and reform the already existing regulatory framework for protecting antiquities and cultural heritage. For the same reason, any financial risks within the framework shall not be indicated. You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to focus particularly on the content and value of Article 5 of Chapter B on the protection of intangible cultural heritage. Reading paragraph 1 on what is meant by intangible cultural heritage, one cannot feel strongly the burden of responsibility towards the next generations, to society and to the very history of our country. We are therefore called upon to protect practices, representations, expressions, knowledge and techniques, as well as the tools, objects, arts and cultural spaces associated with the above, as well as the communities, groups and individuals we recognise to be part of our cultural heritage. This intangible heritage, which is transferred from generation to generation, is constantly feedback from communities and groups in relation to their environment, their interaction with their nature and history, and gives them a sense of identity and continuity, a sense of conscience, thus contributing to the promotion of respect for cultural diversity and human creativity. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise the firm orientation and political will of this government, and in particular of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, to safeguard and perpetuate the multi-dimensional nature of our country's cultural burden. A tangible example of this will comes from last week to which I could not refer, as it is directly related to the subject of protecting the antiquities of the revival and their legacy in the next generations and it is not the project "Or ancient Olympia: Common Place", which was launched in the presence of the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Culture. Technology, culture and history become one with the cooperation of colossal companies, such as "MICROSOT" and the use of technology, through this project the potential to preserve our cultural heritage. Through artificial intelligence, a digital reproduction of our monuments becomes like another time machine and both buildings and everyday lifestyles revive in a wonderful way in front of our eyes. As other Phramways of civilization we mutate the flame of the place where excellence, democracy, and the Greek spirit were born in the next generations and throughout all mankind. As Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis said in Olympia, we made a first big, not just Greek but global step. As a member of the Pieria Law, the life of the gods and monsoon, the regulatory framework for the protection of antiquities and cultural heritage is a top priority for me. The Prefecture of Pieria, the place where the monument was drawn with Zeus and the nine Moussa were born, has a multitude of monuments, buildings and finds of every age, such as the ancient city of Dion, in the suburbs of Olympus, with the known archaeological park and the ancient theatre, the ancient Pydna, one of the most important ancient cities of Macedonia thanks to its port and strategic location, with its long Greek history, but also the famous, imposing castle of Platamonas from the Middle Byzantine period and other exceptional historical sites. In addition, there are a number of local and refugee cultural associations in Pieria, which maintain and revive the long tradition of our country, as well as a multitude of churches and sacred monasteries, all of which this regulatory framework comes to preserve. It is our duty to safeguard our antiquities and our culture as an element of our national identity, but also an element of international recognition, with monuments of the global cultural heritage being in Greece and radiating around the world. The ratification of the Legislative Code creates the necessary solid framework that will give strong impetus to the proper functioning and application of the protection rules, making it easier the next day to strengthen the international radiation of our culture. For more than two thousand years the ideals and universal ideals of the ancient Greek world were the source from which the world's idea of democracy was born, but also philosophy, literature and theatre, music and dance, science and technology, religion and mythology, as they arrived until today. Greece is the cradle of global civilization and the birthplace of modernity through the great ideas that influenced the enlighteners and brought regeneration from medieval darkness. It is not accidental, after all, the phrase of the great French writer and philhellene Victor Ugo: "The world is Greece that is expanding. Greece is the world that is being swept away." For this story, the civilization and the gravitational heritage that our country is carrying today, as it is our country's holding in history. At the same time, however, it is the solid headline for jumping into the new world that rises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u88	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, especially for keeping time. I will now give the special speaker of the Change Movement Mr Kegeroglou. The series was changed with the agreement of Mrs Anagnostopoulou. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank my colleague and colleagues for the series. We are discussing a serious issue, even in the form of codification. Our homeland must, on the one hand, take advantage of the national strategy which we have discussed and testified as a Movement of Change many times so that it can go safely and on the other hand make use of its comparative advantages, its wealthy sources, its location, the natural environment, and, in particular, the island character, history, cultural heritage and, of course, the multi-adulterated human potential. All this, together with the transparent management and exploitation of the around 90 billion euros that the country will have for the next four to seven years. In this context, the debate on the protection of cultural heritage is very important, since it is inextricably linked to our national identity. Protection of cultural heritage must be at the heart of our priorities. In this context, too, it is of particular importance, in addition to national legislation, to international conventions concluded by our country, either within the framework of its participation in international organisations or through direct agreements with third countries. Let us not forget that one of the most important problems faced by Greece is the illicit trafficking of antiquities in large markets abroad. This problem is directly being fought with bilateral agreements, by imposing restrictions on the import of cultural goods, so that if they are found to be moved without special permission, they can be returned immediately to our country. We have seen this practice, for example, in the relevant agreement with the United States, which was signed in 2010 on the PASOK government and has since been renewed. It's refreshed, because it's working. In other words, there are tools beyond national legislation or in conjunction with the national legislation that our state must update and exploit to defend its historical and cultural background. Antiquities, archaeological sites, our own history is not just a wealthy source, as I mentioned, nor is it a mere resource in the state budget. It is an integral part of our national identity and our national identity is the passport for the next day, along with all the rest. It must therefore be the object of time-consuming respect and absolute protection. For all this, the institutional framework must be clear and effective. The bill we are discussing is an attempt by the government to codify legislation on the protection of our cultural heritage and to register in a single text provisions from a broad context. It should be pointed out at the outset that the concept and the mission of codification of a scattered legislation certainly have a positive sign. We, at least, as a political area, have shown ourselves to be in the field of unification of the rules of law with many attempts to codify legislation by our governments. We believe, indeed, that legal certainty and the need for uniform application of legislation by the public administration require clear and distinct regulatory frameworks. That is why our movement could never be opposite from the outset in an attempt to implement the principles of good legislature, which the PASOK first established the years 2010-2011-2012. The question, however, is whether the government at a time when the troika or institutions do not exist, at a time when it is self-sufficient, both the Ministries and the House, if the concept of good legislature is respected, if there is good or bad legislation. Unfortunately, the law itself does not apply. This has been noted many times during the debate of the bills in this Chamber. I will not be prevented from mentioning again the responsibility of both the government and the Bureau of Parliament when it brings amendments in the form of a multiplier and requires them to be voted in the form of codes as one, namely a piece of legislation. Nineteen articles - I say for once - the vaccination programme was required to be voted on as an article, with a 'yes or a 'no'. What is the point, then, of the debate in Parliament, when this first comes to ratifying a bill as a whole as if it were an act of legislative content, without Parliament having its lira, improving provisions and contributing, if you like, to the effectiveness of government choices? It is not a code of an amendment of nineteen and twenty-three articles. The code which contains articles of laws that have suffered the suffering of dialogue and discussion in this Chamber is being discussed secondaryly. So it should be purely a legal matter. And it is. But, here, the government is applying the ruthless legislation - not just bad - which is detrimental to both society and the country. I once again call on the respected President of Parliament, Mr Tassoula, from this step, of course, with the Vice-President, Mr Athanasios, who cannot say that he is not legally aware, to stop this bad practice of discussing and voting for amendments with ten, twenty or more articles, as if it were one. So there has been a debate in the committees on this. It has been noted that while codification is being carried out for an institutional framework, for example, Article 71 or paragraph 7 of a specific article which is codified and does not correspond to any piece of legislation concerning the impunity of the President and the members of the CSCE, the Central Council of New Monuments and the Museum Council for an opinion they made or act they carried out in the performance of their duties. Of course that must be true. Each party will be able to express itself to the individual. I have proposed the legal right to rectify a gap, a 'fault' that emerged from the Committee on Codification until it comes to Parliament. Everything you have said that they will come in the future, accepting that there is a question, namely the need for an explicit abolition of Article 71, as you have explained to us in retrospectively, if we want it to be explicitly abolished, then Article 52(7) should be incorporated into it, after it is passed and it is a law of the State. That is why I have proposed the legislative procedure, first or second - it does not matter, because it is in a single bill - to include it beyond the codified text and as such to integrate it into the text. This would fully restore order in relation to the procedure and do not raise issues that will be resolved by the courts. Because insecurity is being created. Non-lawfulness is insecurity and there will be a need for legal and judicial decisions on what is ultimately the case. In any case, and because, as I have said, the attempt to codify is positive from the outset. But we point out and suggest the way in which everything that has been denounced, debated and accepted by the government indirectly that there is an issue, regardless of how big it is or how small it is, to be corrected during the day through the bill itself. In this sense, we will be absolutely satisfied if you move on to this, and we would not have put our asterisks and objections on it. In any case, we are positive about the encoding that is being attempted. It will improve matters even if necessary - if you do not do so today - in the next few days there will be legislative arrangements to clarify matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The Minister has asked for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u91	On the subject of paragraph 7 of Article 52 of the draft law of the Code, what Mr Kegeroglu just said now, there is a legislative provision. Mr Kegeroglu, the provision has been passed in 2003 by the PASOK Government and is Article 10(6) of Law 3207/2003 in conjunction with the second and third subparagraphs of Article 1 of Law 3094 again in 2003. There is. We don't add a provision. We encode a provision of the PASOK government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Anagnastopoulou, rapporteur of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. I will ask for your tolerance in advance, because we have not had the margin in committee because we have not had enough time to discuss it. I'll ask for your tolerance if I can get over the time I'm given. I would like to begin, ladies and gentlemen, by reminding us that forty-eight years tomorrow of the Polytechnic uprising, when the youth of this country was uprooted for democracy, freedom, education and culture in general. I would like to say that many of the messages of that time are timely and today that the country is in other battles of importance and where democracy and vigilance and culture are needed. And we are coming today to discuss the code for the protection of cultural heritage. The code for the protection of cultural heritage creates a cultural code in general, creates the wall of resistance to a society of values, moral, ideological, political, social, which must have not for the past, but for the future. That's why it's so important to us. In the first place, therefore, I should like to note a few things that did not follow a process of respect for Parliament and democracy. Reading the history of the Central Coding Committee, we can see on the basis of this history that the Minister has the code in its drawer since 24 March 2021. Could these eight months bring the code to the House, giving some room for the Committee on Forums to read, see the code. It is human - I do not want to go directly to suspicion from the outset that something has not been done on purpose - when such wide codification is made of errors. Would it not be much more reasonable, instead of taking the code in our hands at 21: 00, last Tuesday by order, to discuss Thursday at 13: 00? And we said as SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance - and not just us, but the other parties of opposition - that we did not have time to read. I prefer, ladies and gentlemen, to say to the committee that I did not have time to read, rather than to vote or vote against something and say afterward that I had not read it. So we needed to read. This really is a problem with the Bureau. It's not just the Minister's problem. Why did he come after eight months? What was so urgent that the eight months arrived to shrink within one day in such suffocating contexts? Secondly, when we read the history of the Central Coding Committee, we find one thing that the relevant directorates of the Ministry of Culture were not even informed about the code and were not given the code. The Directorates-General, which is the material of their competence, do not have - or have - the idea of the code. They could contribute to avoiding errors. Why, then, were these addresses, the Directorate-General for Antiquities and Cultural Heritage and the Directorate-General for Restoration of Monuments and Technical Works, completely uninformed, not involved in the group and they do not know about the code? Mr Buquoir, you did well and you pointed it out, and we have no problem when there is a problem with admitting it. But I would like, because the New Democracy Government is constantly making reference to SYRIZA as if we were government and you are opposition, to remind you of something you know, but you may have forgotten it. The Legislative Committee on Codification of Criminal Codes has been working for twenty years. Here we have the law of the state of staff, Law 4622/19, on how the consolidations take place. There's a manual based on this law that makes the codifications. I mean, there was a certain mess, and now I don't have time to read to you what this manual provides, and the law itself is yours. We say you haven't kept that law either, because there's a boogeyman and he's good enough to do and there's a boogeyman, but it wasn't kept in this codification. Can't we say it? And you bring me as an example of codification made by a nomadic committee, atrocious work and good work, and you bring it here that we have a codification based on law, manual and others and that is not followed. I said before about Article 34c to show the curiosity. I said it and repeat it: it refers to a section of documentation and protection of cultural goods which Mrs Mendoni herself in 2014 as Secretary-General had abolished along with the address, thus undermining the archaocapilia. And SYRIZA with the agency of 2018 of the Ministry of Culture had restored the Department of Documentation and the Protection of Cultural Goods. Now the code refers to the repealed section. I don't want to blame any suspicious proceedings. It's a mistake, it's prudence, it's contemptible, it's missing the many eyes, the general addresses I've been saying. It could have been avoided. What does the Minister answer to both the committee and now? That once the code's voted, we'll change it. It will therefore be the first change, except for Article 66. It therefore appears that this code follows the numbering of the constitutional archaeological law of 2002 of L.3028 and adds A, B and C, where new laws have been adopted. But this specific codification seems to be amending if it does not remove critical provisions of Law 3028, and here we have a breach of whether this is the case and I will mention a few examples. If that is the case then the committee has unlawfully misappropriated the manual itself and the final law, but also in relation to the Constitution itself. Furthermore, the President of Parliament himself who, through Mr Digalakis in our committee, assured us that there is no change and no change, has been misled and that is a problem. If that is the case, Mr Gerapetti must be responsible for the codifications to take responsibility for exactly what has happened. You know the objections we have about Article 66 and Article 71. The Minister said that there is an analysis of this and that is why Article 71 is deleted. It's not like that, and I'll talk at the end, especially about Article 71. But even if it were so, why is there not in the explanatory memorandum in detail, as the privatisation manual requires, that if it is removed it should be explained in detail in the explanatory statement? That's where Article 71 is undetermined. So it needs to analyse it a little. Article 2 introduces the amendment made by the Minister in 2020, which amends Article 46 of Law 3028, thus abolishing the definitions of the law that were applicable from the representations up to the matrices that had been placed on SYRIZA to Law 4447 and then released for profit-making purposes, and even free of charge. It is a crucial issue to which we had disagreed, and I have to say it all the time. It was an amendment to the Acropolis Act that SYRIZA had voted against in condemning and saying that we are going to trade in cultural goods too critical. In Article 5 - to say some of the "diversities" - are incorporated provisions from the ratification of the international agreement on the protection of intangible cultural heritage. I think the codification manual is very clearly stated that the regulations of the European Union institutions do not constitute the content of the draft codes or codes because they are supranational laws of over-legislative effect, so they do not need to be incorporated unless other provisions of national law are repealed. I don't think that's the case. And now we come to Articles 15, 15A, 15B to 15D, 16 and 17. Included are arrangements for the ancient antiquities with many problems. First, Article 15 of Law 3028/2002, entitled ‘Single archaeological sites’, is automatically fragmented and incorporated into the code of Law 4688/2020 of the Ministry of Tourism, "Visited unique archaeological sites, shipwrecks and others", which were also problematic. Therefore, the provisions of the law of the Ministry of Tourism provide for a management body in a single archaeological site, which is directly contrary to and contrary to Article 7 of Law 3028/2002. While the provision of the law of the Ministry of Tourism should be abolished, it is incorporated into the code and it runs counter to Article 7 of Law 3028 where the exclusive competence of the management of archaeological sites and so forth has the Ministry of Culture itself. Now that codification incorporates it so that it does not run counter to it, however, because Article 7 does still exist. And here is an article - concise provision of a constitutional level, because we must say it, which the SYRIZA government has done, which ensures the ownership of archaeological sites, monuments, museums and general immovable cultural heritage, as well as their management by the Ministry of Culture and legal entities governed by public law. The New Democracy then voted 'the present'. DISY, today's KINAL and the KKE, together with us, had voted in favour. We now have a big problem that needs to be solved. And I have to say, Minister, that the involvement of the AU. the Municipality of Athens for the hill of Filippi - let you know now - is contrary to Article 7 of Law 3028. In Article 15A, the term "non-visited archaeological sites" - there is no relevant legislation, we must take care of these, there is the correct "anal archaeological sites", not divided into visiting or non-visiting sites - so that the law can be substantially amended in this article, archaeological law 3028, as the archaeological sites are categorised without any authorisation to visit and non-visitor. What problems do you have with this, I do not need to analyse it now. I will simply say to you, however, that by putting this provision in place, this classification that produces fair, so we have a substantial change in the code, here we are going to create vulnerability. The port should hunt people with a mask and go to Epidaurus, Aegina, etc. to swim and see with a mask the archaeological sites, the archaeological archaeological sites. Last year, the Minister told us that all of this was open to the citizens. Then, of course, someone had to be saved, went and lifted ancient anchor and historical cannon. Today the swimmer must be hunted. I am not saying now about the other antiquities, about going with 50 euro tickets. However, this is a law which does not exist under any provision. Watch out for that. And we now come to the critical provisions concerning the archaeological sites. Why such perseverance with the ancient archaeological sites? And here there is one problem with the provision, Article 66, which has been removed unnecessarily and from the criminal provisions, the provisions concerning the archaeological archaeological sites in the code, as referred to in Article 66, the corresponding references to Article 15, 15A and 15B, which replace it without, in fact, referring to this in the explanatory statement. That's where you said something, Minister. It needs to be complemented - and I accept it - and we need to make a legislative improvement. But you will have to tell us whether it will be done in everything else. Add all 15, 15A, 15B. The same is true of Article 17. You are codifying Article 16 of Law 3028, but this article is not even a numerical reference to the criminal provisions of Article 66. So the criminal offences in historian spaces stay outside. We must also refer to Article 16. Now let me move a little faster. Be careful, Minister, because here you have to refer what is in force in Article 16 and 17. The reference to Article 16, as you mentioned in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, creates some misunderstandings because Article 16 concerns protection zones and port work. It does not have the broadness of the articles - one minute not to be wrong because there are many numbers - together 15, 15A and 15B of the code. The reference to Article 16 is therefore limited to those which can be defined - it writes the article - and also to port projects. So that's where the whole job has to be. Encoding error exists in Article 12(3). Encoding error exists in Article 19(10). Article 45(13) includes changes made last December to Law 3028 concerning museums and long-term lending of antiquities for fifty years. In the debate then, Mrs Mendoni, you said that public museums were excluded. However, the code should be used to exclude public museums from adding paragraphs 2 and 3 and should be added in any case. In Article 45, paragraph 16, there is a coding error. I can give it to you. As regards Article 45A, which is the Greek State's guarantee, this is a regulation made on SYRIZA, which is spent and weakened in respect of the payment of compensation to the State in the event of the destruction of mobile monuments or works of art during lending. Be careful, this is crucial, because the law, the arrangement that SYRIZA had always put in the direction of protecting the public interest, covers what was foreseen for borrowing by Law 3028 for five plus five years. I'm not sure if coding covers 50 plus fifty. And here is a problem that needs to be checked. Article 50(1) and (2) for central councils, i.e. the Central Council of New Monuments. Here, Minister, I do not know if it is the responsibility of the Central Committee for Codification - the only ex officio some are removed from the central councils from the Ministry of Culture, namely Director General of Antiquities and Director General of Restoration, under the pretext of the law on the final state. These people have the right to sign, but they do not have the right to participate in the councils, while in the local councils those responsible for antiquities are involved. Is it because these directors were against uncivilisation - will you allow me to say - and barbaric - that I will be allowed to say - the secondment of the antiquities of Thessaloniki? I wonder. To come to Article 71, which was completely abolished by the code, and which was abolished and, Minister, we are not convinced that the explanations you give for the simple reason that, firstly, it should appear clearly in the explanatory statement and should be explained in the index. But here we have something else. It does not cover us because it does not cover us in substance if it was a problem of index and explanatory statement - that is the least - because with this action, deportation, the competence of the three-member appeals court and the procedure for the offences relating to the law, thus undermining their criminal treatment. You told us that in the Criminal Code - I do not have to read them because I do not have time - these are provided and there is no need for Article 71. But, Minister, I will tell you what is provided for in Article 101, paragraph A5 of the Code of Criminal Procedure: three-member and five-member courts. The three-member court of appeal shall challenge the felonies of those articles, as well as the felonies of Laws 4139/2013, 3028/2002. In other words, it condemns the felonies which have been subject to Law 3028 and the specific article. With the disappearance of this article it is not mentioned anywhere, because there is expressly, and you need to see this in the Code of Criminal Procedure. So deportation - and here for me is the most critical - hides something. If it does not hide something, it has to come back, because you are failing criminal provisions on crimes that are a felony. I will close with this: because the Minister of State has been used to us - and I personally because of my role as Head of State - to lies, which he says in looking at us and in the eyes, told the Committee on Culture that he blamed us for having voted before the elections on the Criminal Code and removed strict provisions - this has been repeated many times and a formal answer is needed at last - and the Government had to legislate in August 2019 and referred me to the Minutes of this House. So I went to the Minutes of the House to see exactly what has happened. The only intervention made by the New Democracy in August 2019, by Law 4623 in Article 463 of the new Criminal Code, was to ratify the SYRIZA Act of Legislative Action of 27-6-2019 in the final form of the article on felony, which is systematically silenced. The other thing he did was to exclude the archaeological law from the provisions of Article 463, which generally provides for imprisonment or financial compensation. The Nicosia Convention is exactly the same as that, and even proposes the financial penalties. That's what the government did in August 2019. I will not now come to the fact that she as Secretary-General in 2014 had downgraded the responsible address of the Ministry of Culture on archipelago and illegal trafficking issues and SYRIZA had to come to do so again. I won't say - because it's really a big deal here - because the Minister responsible forgot to indict the public within four months of July 19 for the convicted and imprisoned now Christo Pappa for the Gospel, and I don't remember what he had then...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u94	Mr. President, how long will he be talking?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u95	Now we're gonna mix it all up!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u96	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u97	Yeah, I'm sorry, but I didn't have time. I would like to close, abusive and of your patience - and I thank you very much - to say that we are discussing a serious issue and I think we are all in agreement. We have seen mistakes, we have seen discards, we have seen changes, we have seen new categorisations. I now call on the Minister to tell us whether all this can be solved by legislative improvements. But, after the vote on the code, we all agree that it cannot be done. Thanks and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u100	I left a little more time, because there are indeed legal issues. A combination of provisions, because it refers to 16, if you see there in 17, Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, there is a sequence and what you said with the criminal provisions is covered. In any case, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to say to the SYRIZA rapporteur that she obviously judges, or at least, from her party and others. You're champions. We're not lying! And when I say about Law 4623/2019 that by Article 99 we restored the criminal provisions, we restored them and they are implemented. If you want to read them otherwise, your right. But you have no right to say that we lie by following your own practice. Furthermore, with regard to the 2014 Presidential Decree of the Agency - because you are referring to it - to the coexistence of the National Monuments Archive and the Cultural Goods Documentation Directorate, if I am not mistaken, the Presidential Decrees are ratified by the Council of State. No general secretary of any ministry of any government can change them! Stop making impressions just for the impressions! The Presidential Decree passed by the Council of State and adopted. As for the devaluation of the archaocapilia, I would remind you when the essential provisions were made: in the governments of New Democracy and in the Samara - Venizelos, in the period 2012-2014, which happened to be a general secretary again and I am very proud of that period! So do not use different measures as they suit you for the same things! Let me tell you one more thing. You, with the Presidential Decree of 2018, underestimated the archaocapilia, because a number of elements that should be under the same address, the National Archive of Monuments and Archaeocapilia, have been broken into two. Why? To create new positions of responsibility, disregarding the essence of things. So please do not judge yourself when you refer at least to me and say that I lie!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u103	Listen, he gave an answer to what you said, but there's no personal matter. If it's for a clarification, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u104	I'm sorry, Mr. Deli. In this way of the Minister who moves the finger so - because I can answer a lot to her, I will not now talk about the PPP, about the Council of State and all of this - I want to say one thing here in this House and be heard. The Minister, who responsibilities she threw them into the actor's art, will not come over here shaking my finger!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u105	A reply to what you said was considered necessary. Mr. Delis, the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today attempts to codify archaeological legislation or, as it says, the protection of cultural heritage and this codification is based on the provisions of Law 4622 that the current government majority voted in 2019. Introductory terms we could say this: Despite the fact that the basis of this attempted codification is an important law, the archaeological Law 3028/2002, however, since then and within this 20-year period which has taken place so far, several legislative provisions have been added to this law, there have also been other laws relating to it, and there have been amending regulations, amendments, a whole case-law, that is, all of which, of course, have substantially changed the content of this archaeological law, with the direct effect of greater commercialisation of cultural heritage, which has been the objective from the outset. Now, in the case of procedural matters, it is precisely because such codification laws do not provide for any public consultation, which is why Parliament should have been given more time to study and work it out in the committee, because it is not a mere codification nor a classification of existing legislation, but a clarification, even a deletion of certain provisions. This is also acknowledged in the explanatory statement accompanying today's legislation, according to which, apart from being systemically defined, dispersed provisions of the law are also clarified and omitted from obsolete legislation. In other words, this is a quasi-equal amendment to almost all the legislation on the protection of cultural heritage. Let us now go to the essence of the bill, which is, of course, no other - and it could not be in a capitalist environment - by further commercialisation of this cultural heritage, as the main reason why all governments - and today and all the previous ones, together with the European Union that rules out - are interested in the cultural wealth of the past is not in itself the great importance, which has this past as a source of knowledge on how human societies have evolved over the centuries or how the development of the cultural level of the people's strata is reflected in the image of the past. Oh, no! For the European Union and for urban governments this is not the incentive, that is, the knowledge of the past. It's different. It is the added value that this cultural heritage gives to various sectors of the economy, which are cross-checked with it, such as tourism, the digital technology industry, trade, the real estate market, construction. In short, we are talking about the economic, the commercial dimension of cultural heritage and here, of course, the New Democracy Government is honest and is not trying to hide behind its finger, as the SYRIZA Government has previously done. So what is being said, and above all what is being said about the protection of cultural heritage, is finally serving before all the commercialisation of this heritage and its link to the tourism industry. We think that there is no more proof for this than the conversion of important emblematic cultural spaces into a simple decor for parties or on a background for advertising or even film scenes. Let us remember the recent concession - renting the Acropolis itself, the Temple of Poseidon in Sounion, the Panathinaikos Stadium in a large fashion house a few months ago and how many other places have become a scene in all kinds of commercial or "life style" events. Right next to all of this, and at the same time we have the law on the LAPD in place of the Archaeological Resources Fund, the abandonment of the archaeological sites, the scarcity, the minimum recruitments and only fixed-term contractors at all positions of the Ministry of Culture. We also have the decision-making "Venizelos Stadium" of the metro in Thessaloniki, an action which literally leads to a major archaeological site. Under this same logic, the government's stated intention to transform the large museums of the country from public services into legal persons governed by public law as a first step, of course, to follow them in private law. But it is certain that once cultural heritage is a commodity, absolutely nothing can protect it. Any protective measures taken to ensure that this cultural heritage does not lose its basic quality, which is not of a good quality. However, while on the one hand governments - all governments - are voting for laws that are supposed to protect cultural heritage, at the same time in practice monuments remain, as they can be seen, intactly, unprotected, applying to both the sector and the field of this issue the notorious dogma on costs and benefits. The funds of the Ministry of Culture from the state budget are the most undisputed witness of this practice. These are funds which have a completely symbolic presence in the budget, as they account for only 0.04% of the total budget. This, of course, has a very negative effect both on the preservation and protection of monuments and cultural sites itself, the absence of staff, safety measures, etc. Thus, our archaeological monuments are at risk both to natural disasters and to severe weather phenomena, such as what happened last year in Mycena and this year in Ancient Olympia, as well as the disasters that occurred last year in the great floods of Carditsa in the archaeological museum of this city. At the same time, this inadequacy and this giggling, let me have the word, of state support for the cultural needs of our people, is trying to be replaced by the private sector and by the so-called 'civil society', he says, which is, of course, a more comprehensive policy for the European Union. In other words, the protection of the treasures of our cultural heritage now depends on the charity of donors, on the business demon of private individuals, non-governmental organisations and other such institutions of the so-called 'civil society'. A characteristic example in our country - there are many, of course - is the involvement of the Onassis Foundation in the Acropolis, as well as the various small or larger non-governmental organizations active in the field of archaeological monuments. It stands out here, of course, the presence of a completely private club called “DIZOMA”, which literally replaces the Archaeological Service and defines the official, state policy in the field of ancient theatres, specifying which areas, which monuments must be restored and which must not be shown and which should not be all in terms of the tourist exploitation of these monuments. Of course, next to all of this, in this kind of organization and association which is multiplying, there are large private companies, banks and corporate members involved in financing, with unremunerated, of course, and with a view to gaining profit. We must not escape here or forget the laborious effort made by the previous SYRIZA government to give hundreds of monuments to the so-called Supreme Court. Although some of the additions made to the bill - and I come to that - are neither essential nor negative here, but necessary in the code, there are some points on which there is indeed a serious issue. A first such issue is the provisions of Law 4688/2020, which are codified here in Articles 15 and 16 of the bill concerning the ancient antiquities. It is not a question of additions, of course, but of the provisions introduced by this 2020 law and, of course, of course, the government is in a hurry to codify them in order to secure the entry of private capital into the area of ancient antiquities, temples, etc. The integrated tourism and archaeologically connected submarine spaces are an area which promises good profitability in the capital that will be invested there. Thus, the provision of these provisions for the management body also allows - in the vague way it enters - to have private managers of archaeological sites. These are, of course, provisions which we had voted against when this divestment law was discussed in Parliament and of course we will vote against today. The second issue is in Article 66, which has been discussed in this connection. It concerns penalties for actions carried out in archaeological monuments without authorisation or in excess of this licence or for actions carried out in areas which are subject to a ban. In Article 66 of Law 3028, the archaeological order, that is to say, between those penalties, the infringements referred to in Article 15, which is now encoded as Article 16, were also subject to the codification. This Article, however, does not refer to the first paragraph of the codified Article 66. That means quite simply - that someone understands - that the penalties provided for in Article 66 do not apply to infringements of the provisions of Article 16 of the present Treaty. The same is true of Articles 15, 15A, 15B and 15C, which are not subject to the penalties provided for in Article 66, although they contain relevant prohibitions and obligations. The reference to Article 17 as historic sites, of course, does not link these articles with the sentences of Article 66, but also with the sanctions provided for in Article 15D - because it is literally a labyrinth - it concerns only the diving service providers of visitable sea archaeological sites - this is the Arctic selection of the EAW - and their employees, but not the independent visitors or the archaeological premises in general. What we want to say here is that the legal arrangements introduced by the Minister are far from complete answering the issues raised and the questions we ask. These are articles relating to divestment tourism, which, quite simply, are becoming even worse. Thirdly, Article 71 of the archaeological law, of Law 3028, which we do not know why it was, in any case, lost in codification, disappeared. With this article, this tripartite appeal was given the power over the felonies of theft monuments, the embezzlement of monuments, the destruction of monuments, the acceptance and disposal of monuments, which are, of course, products of crime, the illegal intervention or the execution of works in a monument, the illegal export of cultural good and the illegal excavation - I mention them because it is important to hear - or other research into finding or revealing monuments. Really, why isn't it codified? The Minister gave an explanation, but this explanation - forgive me, Minister - is not convincing at all, because it is not enough to say that there is a provision in the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Code of Criminal Procedure does not replace the criminal provisions of each of the laws that are passed here in the House. If that were the case, there would be no criminal provisions in the laws that are introduced. The codification of Article 71, therefore, is of even greater importance than the previous provisions on the introduction of this article in today's bill, which can be done once you have already made a relevant legislative regulation. Finally, there is a question with various articles which are codified and which we voted against when they were discussed in the House, such as Article 45 of the Code, which went through with Article 48 of Law 4761/2020 or Article 46, in which the provisions of other laws are codified, 2016, 2019 and 3020, laws under which the liberalisation of the monuments for all kinds of activities - those very little - was provided for - at a cost always at a cost, not related to the content and role of cultural monuments, as we have said. Finally, after taking all this into account, it is understandable that we are voting against today's codification bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Before I give the floor to the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, I have the honour to announce to the House that under Rule 143(3) of the Rules of Procedure, on Monday 22 November of this year, at 10.30 seconds, there will be a debate on a pre-dated order at the initiative of the Chief of Officerial Representation and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance Alexis Tsipras, at the level of party leaders, on the accuracy and the absence of political will on the part of the government to protect households and businesses. Mr President, Mr Velopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would just like to point out that what the country has to show is its culture. It is a reality that all of us have to see in the eye to understand how unfair the Ministry of Culture has been for many decades now. The Ministry of Culture, in the view of the Greek Solution, must have an existing position in the order and numbering of the ministries. Unfortunately, on the side of the state, it is a ministry which is considered secondary or three-fold, to understand how differently the Greek solution has in relation to the other parties, which either govern or want to govern. For culture has a certain direction, the humanisation of the barbaric man. This is the concept of 'culturalism'. But I would like to say something. Do governments really protect our culture and heritage? She'll be able to see, Minister, someone just television to figure out what culture means. Barbarity, vulgarity, milking. And I would like to say a lot of things about this, but they are not here. So it says and unequivocally, no government protects the Greek heritage and the Greek culture. I need to remind you that the previous government has succumbed our national heritage, with the monuments always, to the lenders, making the same criminal mistake as the Greek governments and Turkish rule, where they have enabled so-called archaeologists - travelers to end up with the Greek cultural heritage and fill the museums, be they Louvre, or the British Museum, or the other museums, with all these enormous cultural and cultural goods, or statues, or manuscripts, or all that are called by times of destruction and findings of our cultural wealth. National monuments were provided by the previous government and archaeological sites. What free government would do that? What real country that has national sovereignty would do that? None at all. And yet a government did so, and unfortunately this story is a blemish in the national cultural, cultural freedom of the country. The protection of our cultural heritage was seen by the fires in the summer, Minister, from the fire in the Mycena. I'm going to do a little analysis of the tragic mistakes you're making and of the Ministry. It also appeared from the fire in Olympia, from the flooded and cemented Acropolis, from the sentences - fouls to the smugglers of antiquities and archaics. And you are coming today, Minister, as a New Democracy, to legislate on the irresistible - I wonder - on the local councils of monuments, on the Central Archaeological Council, on the Central Council of New Monuments and on the Council of Museums. Madam Minister, why are you doing this? Why do you really prove that you are the government of the irresponsible and legitimacy of the irresponsibility of any minister, MP, doctor, even heads of a council? Tell me why. Because the impunity gives a peculiar immunity to all those who are compelled to the place, to all of them, Madam Minister, who conduct themselves authoritarianly, by making use of fascism, never to be persecuted for whatever responsibility they have. Tell me why. Evidently document it. And it's not, you know, just this impulse. This is where you're setting up unregulated doctors, ministers, employees. Why? Where's the accountability for someone who has a state position, a responsibility? Where's the responsibility? So it is the government's problem, because it is a government of unresponsible, responsible for the punk of the place! That's the reality. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Gentlemen of the New Democracy, Minister, because you are decades in the Ministry of Culture, since 2008, it has been thirteen years and to your honor at this time you have done a motivation there with Mr. Tsiara, the Minister of Justice. The issue of the prosecutor of archipelago, Minister, is it being promoted? Was it supposed to be thirteen years? The anticipation of an archaocaust prosecuting officer is being promoted? Should it be thirteen years? Where is the assistance of the Ministry of Culture's services to the prosecution authorities? You're still talking about all this. Since 2008, something has been decided to do, it has come today, after thirteen years, to discuss the same subject again. Will you do something? And we will prove to you why you make tragic mistakes as government and why the New Democracy does not protect our culture and cultural heritage. Ms. Mendoni, from a cable of rupees the area of Mycena took fire, rhetorical theft to give power to parts of the archaeological site. They stole electricity to give the archaeological site in Mycenes, where Mycenes are a very important archaeological site for the history of the country! Rheumatophilia! Where were the responsibilities of the Argolid Antiquities Agency, Minister? Why was the case covered, Minister? Then why, Mrs. Mendonis, didn't you do anything to check out exactly what has happened? It is an example of the mistakes you make as a ministry and as a natural person. Because they are also responsible for the ministers, but also for the natural persons and governments. Second, violent secondment of antiquities from Venizelos St. in Thessaloniki. It could be a very beautiful thing there, a very beautiful place where the subway, the technology today, the Minister, but also the antiquities coexist. What did you do? You've given up. This is a crime, it's a mistake. Third mistake, crime: Underwater Museum of Alonissos: Place a ticket of EUR 50 to the Underwater Museum of Alonissos. It is now the shipwreck of Peristera, 5th century BC. the first worldwide visiting submarine museum. With 50 euros ticket, according to the mayor of Alonissos, the monument is discredited. He'll give 50 euros each, he'll take a bottle, dive and do whatever he wants. It is not so serious - I repeat - a government policy, nor can you do with ancient antiquities. It can't be done. You're making a serious plan. No plans, no plans. You can't do it. You've been cementing the Acropolis. Globally, we've become a humiliation. You put a compresser on, guys! Compressor! Next time, you'll put a drill. You don't have a drill to extract natural gas, put a drill in the Acropolis. You're capable of that, too. UNESCO expressed dissatisfaction, Minister. Even Liberaton - I have the article before me - spoke about cementing and deforming the monument. 'IBERATION'. It is not a newspaper, we would say, of the extreme space or, in any case, a graphic paper. It's a serious newspaper. I will also present this for the Minutes of the House, along with the rhetoric in the Mycena. Fourth, cementation. Before you do, Mrs. Mendonis, we have prepared a whole study much cheaper than the so-called sponsorship of the "Onasea" - supposedly sponsorship of the "Onasea"! - We testified it for the Minutes and we'll testify it again. And did we, Mrs. Mendoni? We didn't fire cement. We did everything in the Colosseum, whatever in other Italian areas, with special wooden structures so that people with disabilities can see the miracle of mankind, the Parthenon and the Acropolis. You went to the cement. You didn't even see the study. And, of course, other crimes have been committed, since they are a model, cheap, functional study. You'll be able to do this. We didn't find out about America. What did we do? We replicated successful models from other countries. Why don't you guys do it? That's not it. Cement to be done! Well, it won't be cement. Is that possible? Five, a fire in Tatoi. You've been exposed, Mrs. Mendoni, personally. You argued that the two houses that were burned were of little value. Who determines these? What will it say'small value, believable objects'? But you admitted that in the countryside there are containers of historical value. You celebrated the successful fire management and the next day the fire was rekindled. I say these, because they are some mistakes which I am not really going to say - I am not just saying them as mistakes. It is an irresponsible government, which, in fact, creates a huge problem - I will say it directly - in the performance of responsibilities. This is not a political matter. This is about the responsibilities you have as a government for these crimes and - I shall say something else - the great crime - is a time-lag that I shall mention - of all the governments. All foreign countries, Madam Minister, formally demand and win and repatriate objects, too many objects. First, Benin: twenty - six stolen works of art are repatriated, stolen by English soldiers at the time of French colonialism, 1892. Secondly, the Indians claim and take back the stolen bones of their ancestors from an American university along with the findings. Thirdly, Germany returns to Italy an ancient bush seventy-five years after theft. Fourth, Austria: Salzburg Museum returns stolen ancient Greek art works in Russia. Listen, Greek works of art are being asked by the Russians and the Austrians are returning them. Fifth, Egypt: They're watching auctions. Mrs Mendoni, you too should at some point as Minister to monitor all auctions throughout the world, that is, what the Egyptian Ministry of Culture does. So Egypt regained a thousand stolen ancient works of art of their own, Egyptian, with simple applications and pressure through ministries. Why don't you do that? You're serious, though, right. No, we're sending an email and the story's over. Sixth, Egypt: The United States returned five ancient objects that were smuggled into their territory. Seven, Egypt asks Britain and returns Britain an ancient relief. Eighth, Easter Island: The Norwegian Museum returned thousands of objects stolen from a renowned explorer. Ninth, Alaska: Hawaii returned to her stolen tom. I'm telling you a few things. Tenth, Ukraine: Dutch court returns Crimea treasures. Eleventh: Peru, Colombia and Argentina return ancient objects. I'm telling you specific things, but there's an organization here. Twelfth, Italy: Belgium returns stolen ancient head from a statue in August. Libya also claims from Britain a stolen ancient Greek statue. Libya claims an ancient Greek statue found in Libya, of course. and it makes sense for Libya to ask for it. Iran, England, Belgium, Italy, the United States returned five hundred fifty eight anciently stolen Persian objects. I could give a lot of similar examples. I will send you to the Ministry of Culture, Minister, with a draft, so that we can see what we are going to do at last with the legalisation of the claim on our part, not the sculptures of the Parthenon alone. And I'll tell you why I'm telling you. Listen here. So you want truths. Now that we're talking, there are auctions. German sells ancient Greek plumbing in Munich a few months ago, at a auction held on November 2, 2020. Vacuum auction from Boeotia. I have it here, Minister. I got on the Internet, and I found it. You know that, too. However, the committee must seriously draw up a legitimate plan for all parties together, so that we can make a proper claim. The ancient Greek carved christmas bead with the cherry ram was sold for $12,000 in auction. Let's go down. They went to sell rare ancient Athenian drachma - Turkey has done this - against a million dollars, please! This drachma is rare. Everyone who knows a little story realizes what I'm saying. We have more. A fragrance was sold used by soldiers to put perfume when they were fighting. A thousand hundred and seventy ancient objects from Corfu, since the Neolithic era, have been in the British Museum. They're registered, Minister. Let me send them to you one by one. Fifty-eight ancient objects from Zakynthos to Lefkada are located in the British Museum. One hundred and thirty ancient objects from Ithaca are also found in the British Museum. Two hundred and seventy ancient objects from Iatoli are also found in the British Museum. I've got it all filed here. Five hundred and twenty-six ancient objects from Akarnani are in the British Museum. And I've got these ones here one by one. One hundred and ninety-five ancient objects from Locrida are found in the British Museum. These are here, too. Statues, debris. Also, five hundred forty - five ancient objects from Chalkida and Kymi Evia. These are here, too. Is it so hard to make a real archive about what we were stolen from? Two hundred four ancient objects from Eretria, Evia. Here's the photos. One hundred and two ancient objects from Paros are found in the British Museum. Here's the photos. Eleven thousand four hundred ancient objects from Thrace are found in the British Museum. Here it is! What should I start? And it's not just Parthenon's sculptures, Minister. You know that better than I do. They are also the sculptures of the Parthenon of the Peloponnese that exist from the Temple of Epikourios Apollo at the British Museum again. Why do you live only in the Parthenon's marbles? And here I could mention one more thing. A few days ago a Greek vessel was auctioned. And that's illegally auctioned. It's really illegal. Nobody's looking. And it's not just these thousands of objects. Madam Minister, strangely hidden cosmo-historic discoveries from your ministry. I would personally like you to take a phone to the Antiquities editor in Dion and see in Egypt the anonymous grave found, the Macedonian grave, which is too old to be a simple grave - I do not know if you have ever been - and I say it as a historian at the moment - based on the symbols found inside as the Olympiad's grave. Check it out. Second, chief of the Petrols. I'm looking to find out where the findings are and no one's telling me, Minister. Where are the findings? A skull was found. He went to the University of Thessaloniki and disappeared. The chief man of Megalopolitan Arcadia. She lived seven hundred and thirty thousand years ago, Minister, or two thousand years ago. Where are these findings? Does anyone know? Let's go find them as a committee, as a parliament. Madam Minister, the Prime Minister, unfortunately, spoke safely of the Parthenon's sculptures. I'll say it in a stubborn way: Selling patriotism? What's he selling all of a sudden? Because if the Prime Minister really wanted to ask for the Parthenon's marbles, he would also ask for the Germans stolen from Mrs Merkel who came here. At the same time, he would also ask for the money from the mortgage loan and the corrections. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] It is not possible to concern itself with these, because they are bothering the Germans, but they are interested in others. He went to France and did it. He was in London yesterday. Why didn't he officially put it again? French guerrilla? That's not happening. And I will prove to you why the Greek political staff, and I refer to everyone, has a mood many times to undermine the history of this people, called the Greek people, the Greek nation. I heard Erdogan yesterday. I had heard Draghi speak of the greatness of the Roman Empire in the past. Have you ever heard Greek Prime Minister speak of the greatness of the Byzantine Empire, the greatness of the ancient Athenian democracy or even of the sperm and Macedonian, Macedonian kingdom? Nobody! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Erdogan, then, talked about the Trojan War and said "the greatness of the Turks, which have existed for centuries in the region" and a lot of other ridiculous and unscrupulous references. Find me a Greek political system that would speak, I repeat, of the greatness of the Byzantine thousand-year-old Empire of the Greeks, a thousand-year-old empire! Show me a politician. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Do you know why? Because we're scared. There is this mood on the one hand, the false left, I am not saying on the left, which is what the Greek-centre, whatever national, really historical, considers it far-right and fascist. So what did you do? You raised the snake's egg called Nazis in Greece. You, because this is how you framed the blue, the blue one itself, and it is important - our uterus, our history and our culture. Minister, if the Greek Solution governs, and I am sure that the Greek people will understand and give us four years, I have before me an excellent study of top universities, and I wonder why neither the Ministry of Education nor your Ministry has ever dealt with it. This study is eleven genetic professors, Madam Minister of Culture, and I will present it in the Minutes. What does she say? It says about the composition of the newest Greek world. Because we learned from the false left that we are a bastard nation, that we are not descendants of the Greeks, that we are descendants of the Turks, the descendants of the Slavs and all those who passed through Greece. But the drop doesn't alter the essence of a huge tank, it can't. Valid responses from a group of Greek and foreign university teachers and geneticists. They're not taught in schools. So what does it say? They were published in international magazines, such as 'SCIENCE', 'European Journal of Human Genetics', that is, European genetics. "The genetic identity of today's Greeks, based on two hundred and seventy thousand DNA indicators, is as follows: 11% of their DNA comes from the fifty-one thousand years of self-determination, 59% of DNA from the years 23,000 to 11,500 pre-Christ, 20% of DNA from the years 11,000 to 8,000 before Christ. Just 10% of their DNA was created after 1500 before Christ." So what does that prove to be? That our ancestors and we are the same, same paste, same breed, same in everything, even in discord! Even in discord we are the same. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I could do a whole analysis, but I'm actually going into it. Why don't all this be taught at school? Why does the child have to feel annoying about being a Greek citizen? For two reasons: firstly, why now is the alteration of our population through the people who come here in a violent or non-violent manner and give them asylum in order to stay here on a mandate you want, with tolerance, with the help of the New Democracy, who gives a veil of asylum to anyone who comes here. But the hegemony of the falseist has made values and ideals. Today the false left incriminates patriotism, identifies patriotism with guilt. Allith is the Nazi fascists. As soon as you're talking about flag, they call you a far-right and fascist. You just talk about history they call you a Nazi. The identification of patriotism with the right-wing and junta is the great argument, the alibi of ethnicism. patriotism presupposes democracy and vice versa. It's not Velopoulos, it's the vow of the Athenian soldiers. The Nazis have succeeded in Greece to identify patriotism with Nazism after the fake left helped them, the indictment of the blue-white flag. The nation’s annoying syndrome is the great alibi of the fascism of ethnicity. So patriotism presupposes one thing: Love Greece, love the flag, love the country, love the nation and fight for them. This is the Greek Solution, the only patriotic movement. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And I'd say by closing in here we carry the place called Greece wherever we go. I, as an immigrant to Germany, remember my parents - unmarked - always when my apologies father came to Greece to worship the Greek land and made his cross. This is the place we love. This is the homeland we want, a homeland that never leaves our hearts. But no one can predict this journey that will lead us. We will suffer as a Greek Solution and losses, we will also suffer strikes. But we hope to learn and mature from our experiences and from all those who accompany us on this journey for a free Greece, for a democratic Greece, for a Greece with the chains of slavery broken. We promise them one thing: we will never betray any of you, no Greek, no patriots. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Madam Minister, you are the government of appeals, derogations and appeals. Calls for price restraint. Challenges to the Roma to limit crime. Challenges to criminals not to shoot. Calls for Greeks to sleep better when the burglars enter. Calls for restraint - listen - to the control and treatment of lawlessness. Calls for respect for rights in Turkey. An appeal, the quintuosity of the incompetent government that cannot impose legitimacy. All the mediation system, and it turns out, in the hands of a man. Isonas Apostolopoulos. Who's that? I never knew him. I don't know who this man is. The man who saves lives said a channel. The man who saves lives! For the Greek Solution, this man doesn't save lives. The Greek port saves lives! Greek police officers, Greek doctors, Greek nurses save lives! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] This particular man, whom I didn't know, but I searched him, I couldn't find out what he was doing. I'm looking to find out what he's doing. Protector of people coming from Turkey. He is supported by the newspapers, supported by the channels, and supported by the Minister of the New Democracy who, on the day before, was to blame for this particular and the next day, they drew his ear from the Maximos Mansion and did it as usual. Mr President, I will finally say this directly to him what I propose to him by Mr Apostolopoulos. Such truly sacrifice and charity I did not expect. So if he is so philanthropist, he should go to the coast of Turkey and prevent boats from coming and drowning babies in the Aegean and exposing the country. Not to be a philanthropist with the NGO back and I don't know what else. Preventing the ship, not allowing it, and then making the philanthropist. Of course, I have one comment to make and I close. Everyone's lost. They come to Greece with lost papers. Nobody knows who they are. The only ungodly people who come here, the refugees, the illegal immigrants, the illegal people, do you know what they are? It's the iPhone. Everyone has an unscrupulous iPhone. Papers don't have, iPhone have. So ELSTAT, which makes a census, is interested in how much WC has our home, how many bathrooms, how many steps, if it has a courtyard, if it has a garden, if it has a terrace, but it is not interested in who has entered Greece and how many in recent years. He doesn't record these things. It is disappointing that the new Greek does not even understand even now what damage the logic of non-optimal has caused. This damage is irreparable, the damage is irreparable. Everyone says: "Chipras will vote to get Tsipras out and Cyriakos will leave?" "Can I vote for Kyriakos so Tsipras can come? What do you want the New Democracy not to come out to see Tsipras go out?" The non-optimal. This is therefore the crime of the modern Greek tragedy of our democracy. This is the unpleasant course of the Greek voters in this wrong line. The truth doesn't need much effort to shine, that's reality. The lie, on the contrary, takes a lot of effort to stay on the surface. By lying, the media are mocking the Greek people, by these media that have received a fat million euros, the media that operate as a Trojan Horse. In conclusion, I would like to say that as a Greek I grew up with three phrases - we fifty - sixty. "You haven't been in possession of my boy," my grandfather said. "You haven't been hungry, boy," that's what my grandfather said. "You haven't been through a junta boy," that's what my father said. Now unfortunately and hunger we have, and Occupation we have, and unfortunately a government's authoritarian behavior is coming to balance everything. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Finally, I would like to make an appeal. Tell me a serious country where the mayors gather the garbage bins in Thessaloniki, because tomorrow we have a course for November 17th. Because a few dozen - tens, not more - para-stated punks, burn the country, burn Greece, the rest of the thousands of Greeks must be exposed. Tell me a serious country that's all done, tanning the rest of the thousands. Tell me a serious country that gathers the bunkers so they won't be burned, so they won't burn everything, so it won't stand up like a neck and black and the course and the protest. So the rest of the way let them isolate them. But I have one question to ask. Isn't that where it's stuck? Only in churches, national anniversaries and lentils is the coronary stuck? That's why I'm saying Caesar's wife will seem and be honest. No, when it suits us to strike orthodox, linen and national anniversaries, and when it doesn't suit us, the gentlemen of the New Democracy to do the wrong thing in any way, in any demonstration, in any form of burning, just because you're afraid, you're stereophobic and you're not Greek-centered. We are Greek-centered. Whether left-wing or right-wing people have the same obligations and rights. For this reason, a four-year period for the Greek Solution will finally be given a national solution for the nation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u109	Mrs. Bakadima has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the bill proposed by the Ministry of Culture, a bill concerning the ratification of a code of legislation on the protection of antiquities and of cultural heritage in general. I cannot therefore start my position by omission to refer to the Minister's attempt overrun by its legislative powers, as we have changed or even abolished, as I shall refer to substantially existing provisions on the protection of cultural property. But let us see from a closer perspective what the reasons are for this. In accordance with Article 65, it is therefore foreseen that ‘the provisions, which have been expressly or implied, and the transitional provisions, which no longer apply, should be restructured on a case-by-case basis when codification takes place. Recast of the texts in an identifiable language, adaptation of the provisions setting out the responsibilities of administrative and other bodies to the existing organisational structure, centralised and decentralised state services of local government and of legal persons in the public sector. Encoding may also take the form of concentration in the coding text of all existing provisions of a legislative or regulatory nature, but without the inclusion of the consolidated provisions in a single text and without its repeal. In accordance with the codification methodology manuals drawn up by the CEC by a delegated act referred to in Article 66(3) of Law 4622/2019, the contested concepts of deletion, reform, update, clearing and replacement of obsolete provisions are set out. I will not go into the analysis of the concepts because of the limited time, moreover a great deal of mention has been made in the debate in the committee, of course, in the time that the committee had to discuss the proposed legislation, because unfortunately it was not enough. However, if we look carefully and analyse the concepts - step by step, we will help us to move forward with the conclusion that codification involves the systemisation of existing provisions, while being able to be eliminated only for express or implicitly abolished, and for transitional provisions that no longer have a scope. Contrary to the rules of good legislation and good codification, the proposed legislation under discussion in the articles of 66 and 71, even after the legislative improvement we have seen for Article 66, makes substantial changes, since provisions which do not fall under any of the situations where deportation or updating is permitted are abolished, while the current Article 71 is abolished as a whole, but not explicitly. It remains to be seen, of course, - and we will see it in the course of the meeting, we will be placed later - if finally, the proposed legislative improvement by the Minister covers - I am afraid that unfortunately it does not cover all cases. Furthermore, the amendments are omitted from the explanatory statement to the Code in which, on the one hand, Article 66 is codified in 66 of Law 3028/2002, as amended by Article 10 of Law 3658/2008, as currently applicable, i.e. - and on the other, it is stated that Article 71 is codified by Article 6 of Law 3658/2008. By hiding, however, that the current Article 71 is completely abolished and that is why we have not heard any legislative improvement, we have not heard any comments. It is therefore more than obvious that this codification is a pretext for the wicked amendment of specific criminal provisions of the archaeological law and unfortunately no legislative amendment - an improvement cannot eliminate the original intention. You said, Minister, that the text has come, as delivered to you by the CEC, without changing anything. However, the changes that should have been made should have been made should have been an essential debate within the committee. We would have liked to have heard the relevant bodies, debated in depth, so that we could come up with a draft law that would really protect our country's cultural heritage and not be here today to discuss in context and on the basis of movements of impression, such as what we saw at the beginning of the debate, you to fly the ball to the KEK, saying that they wrote it, we brought it exactly as we received it, while you had eight months in your desk drawer. Eight months that you have done nothing, eight months that you have not brought it to Parliament for debate only now, last minute! We all wonder why the debate has taken place and not all these months. And, of course, none of us wonder - although we wonder about the delay - how you have managed the cultural portfolio as a whole since you took it. How you operated during the pandemic, the leaving you without support for huge groups of people of culture. But that's a conversation we're not going to make today. We're here to do it anytime. I shall, however, come back to the bill because it is extremely important and we really should not evade - at least today - when we discuss this. It will, moreover, be the parliamentary representative later who will also be able to place himself on a wider range of issues. Returning to Article 34C, for which we also did not hear anything - I naturally expect to hear your position at the end of the debate - this is an article which contains a major error: the competent central authority of the Greek State for the application of Articles 34A to 34B is defined as the Department for Documentation and the Protection of Cultural Goods of the Management of National Documentation and Cultural Goods Management Department of the Ministry of Culture. However, it is a section that no longer exists, as this address was already degraded to a branch in the Agency in 2014 for the abolition of which you were then at the steering wheel of the General Secretariat office. You were a secretary-general who proceeded to this. You told us today that this was a mistake that would be retrospectively corrected. But let us be honest with the citizens. Many mistakes in the New Democracy will have to be retrospectively corrected. Let it not be the way to legislate, and in this case one of them. We are certainly all judged by our citizens both for our actions and for what we are voting on and for what we are bringing to legislate and how we are dealing with mistakes. You want to tell us that the CDC didn't know about this change in the department. You want to tell us it was their fault, giving them the ball. It is your right to do so. It is your right to tell us that it will be corrected later by a ministerial decision. And of course, it is our obligation to be here to highlight all your omissions and all the targeted interventions. Moving on from Article 50(6)a, paragraph 6a has been removed, without referring to the explanatory memorandum, the words "without being undone of their protection..." by the last paragraph, which now reads: "This institution is also competent to give an opinion on the designation of property situated in an archaeological site or on an ancient site as a monument, according to the above. (b) and (c) thereof. Article 6(1), without prejudice to their protection.' So we see it being removed. A subtraction that is completely inexcusable. We would therefore like to see you explain it by the end of the debate. We're moving on to Article 15. Article 15 of Law 3028/2002 concerns all antiquities and is codified in Articles 15, 15a, 15b, 15c, 15d and 16, in conjunction with the provisions of Law 4688/2020. These provisions provided for the possibility of managing archaeological sites and other bodies outside the public sector. A provision contrary to the provisions of the amended May 2019 n.3028/2002, which stipulates that not only ownership and prestige, but also the administration and administration of monuments and archaeological sites are done by the public. Here you are trying two amendments to Law 3028/2002 which are not mentioned in the explanatory statement. The first relates to Article 66. I said it before. We will see whether the legislative amendment you are proposing covers and protects the way it should be done with regard to the archaeological sites. Of course, note that the archaeological archaeological sites are not kept. Since we are discussing violations, which we should see if, at the end of the day, they will lead to protection or not of the premises, and as a result of the violations being punished, I could not, as a member of the 2nd Piraeus Region, not mention and not remind our fellow citizens - you, Mrs. Minister, remember it well - that a file of criminal court proceedings has already been formed at the Piraeus Prosecutor's Office for Mr. Laskaridis, after a reference to the Department of Modern Antiquities, despite efforts to cover the issue, for an illegal rise in an ancient stone anchor and an iron standard of historic times. It remains to be seen whether, eventually, the case will be filed or at least not, we will actually see to pay those who have violated and illegally violated our culture and cultural heritage. Because we all know. Culture is a loan. Loan from previous generations and that's what we'll leave to next. Therefore, it is not possible to cover in any way the infringement or any other misuse, illegality that may be about managing and involving parts of our culture and our history. Furthermore - and I will end with this - you are going, Madam Minister, to abolish, but without express reference to it, Article 71 of Law 3028/2002, which provides for the jurisdiction of a three-member court of criminal offences to deal with specific criminal offences, i.e. not one-sided, thus degrading their criminal treatment. There are too many points I would like to mention. I don't have time today. I will, however, close with a brief comment. The events of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis in the field of the protection of cultural heritage and culture give us every right to worry. Not a few times, the Government and the Minister acted in a harmful manner to protect our cultural heritage by declassifying new monuments, such as PYRKAL in Elefsina, for the benefit of the Greek oil of Mr Latsis, or ancient monuments, such as the burial monument of Themistocles in Pireikos for the benefit of 'COSCO'. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, not only will we vote against today's bill, but we will do so by shouting our opposition and not ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima. The reason is now the special speaker of the Greek Solution Mrs Sophia - Iido Asmakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the protection of antiquities and cultural heritage in general is always timely. The culture of Greece is everywhere around us. It rises unparalleled over the centuries and is our comparative advantage. We are discussing the ratification of the code of legislation on the protection of antiquities and of cultural heritage, which has been introduced and discussed in the committee responsible by fast-track procedures, something that has found us and finds us completely opposing. As has already been pointed out in the first article of this article, it is assumed that, under international law, the Greek State is responsible for the protection of cultural goods historically linked to Greece, wherever they are. But it doesn't take care. Did she share the Samothraki Victory at the Louvre Museum in France, which, after'maintaining', has now degraded it to a white ghost of her previous self? The damage done, giving a viciously swollen result, is incalculable. I'm going to submit a relevant report for the Minutes. The allegations made by the representatives of the museum for the protection of exhibits above are obviously unsubstantiated. And you sit down and watch them plunder, sacrificing our cultural heritage. We say this, because in our every question, in the context of parliamentary control, for the return of antiquities from the museums of France, antiquities, such as Victory of Samothrace, Aphrodite of Milos, the tenth legacy of the southern side of the famous Temple of Athena in Acropolis, the antiquities from Ligortina, the reply of the Minister of Culture and Sports, which I will testify for the Minutes, you know what it was? That the Ministry of Culture and Sport only claims to return the sculptures of the Parthenon. The rest, obviously, leaves it in their fate. We have also tabled a relevant question for which we expect an answer to the repatriation of antiquities from France, following the recent handover of looting objects to a country in Africa, since on 27 October this year France decided to return to Benin, Africa, twenty-six objects, which were seconded in 1892 at the time of colonialism in that country. The decision to return - as we will be tabling on the Minutes - was a result of the numerous intense calls made by the country of Africa to the European countries in order to return to that colonial loot in their museums. You whistle indifferently. Did you take care of the Parthenon sculptures, which we will present in the Minutes, appear to have fans placed in the rooms of the British Museum, where the Parthenon sculptures, which were recently flooded? Besides, why should they respect and protect something that doesn't belong to them? That is why, of course, we have tabled a relevant question. The issue is one, it is lasting and it is unnecessarily negotiable, to return the cultural goods that are illegally located outside the Greek territory, and the sculptures of the Parthenon and all that have been illegally extracted from our homeland. In Article 3 of the validated code relating to the content of the protection, it is therefore without doubt necessary to add the measures for the return of cultural goods to the Greek territory and for their preservation within the country. This is where they belong, and this is where they must be. Likewise, if we do not want to talk about pragmatic protection, we also need to ban the export or borrowing of cultural goods abroad. The possibility of moving antiquities outside the country should not be allowed. Greece is - and must continue to be - the most ideal cultural destination, but also an important lever of intercultural approach and cooperation. By removing antiquities from their homeland, exactly the opposite is achieved. Below, on the code, it is stressed that intangible cultural heritage transferred from generation to generation is constantly being re-created by communities and groups in relation to their environment. Questions here are a lot. What do you mean as groups or communities? Can there be foreign cultural heritage in our country? Who's that? Article 7 relating to ownership, administration and management of real estate monuments, organized archaeological sites is very dangerous. They distinguish the ancient monuments up to 1453 that belong to the public and are things out of transaction from subsequent monuments from 1453 onwards, which are things out of transaction if they belong to the public. In other words, subsequent ancient monuments if they do not belong to the public can be traded. Obviously, we totally disagree with this provision which can make monuments to the country of sale between countries. This code is full of arbitrary superpowers given to the Minister of Culture and Sport. A sad example is the fact that the establishment or operation of an industrial, craft or commercial undertaking or the placement of a telecommunications or other establishment is permitted only after the approval of the Minister of Culture and Sport, issued after the opinion of the Council. The monuments, in simple words, become objects of the Minister, who decides whether a friend or acquaintance will be built next to them, whether to change his use, or whether to allow any intervention in them. The same applies to what is defined for the demarcation of archaeological sites, as archaeological sites will be declared on the basis of archaeological research data and, of course, by a decision of the Minister of Culture. Exercise of agricultural, livestock or other related activities as well as building activities in land archaeological sites situated outside the city plan shall be carried out once again by decision of the Minister. It would be right to have objective and numbered criteria allowing the above activities. Because, no doubt, the possibility of obtaining a licence by decision of the Minister leaves room for different treatment on a case-by-case basis. But the Minister's increased authority to decide when a project will be approved in such a space or when a building will be demolished, obviously, so that the government's well-known will be satisfied. We clearly disagree with the provision allowing the borrowing and exchanging of public-sector movable monuments and, in particular, that a ministerial decision may allow the exchange of published public-sector movable monuments, which are in possession of them, since they are not of particular importance for the country's cultural heritage, including foreign NGOs. As regards the import of cultural goods, we believe that more stringent criteria should be laid down for the right to ownership or import into ancient times until 1453. It should not be possible for the person concerned to be given such an easy possession if it is not possible to prove the origin of the ancients. As far as the export of cultural goods is concerned, we can only oppose the provisions by which only by decision of the Minister of Culture and Sport and not by objective and merital provisions are granted authorisation to export monuments. Of course, we also disagree with the limitation periods for the return of cultural goods. We believe that these claims should be inalienable. The essential questions that should concern us are when and why these findings have left our country and why the necessary initiatives have not been taken to repatriate them and the exemplary punishment of those involved in these actions. Furthermore, with regard to systematic excavations you say that these will be carried out, among other things, by foreign archaeological missions or schools established in Greece. What kind of mission do you mean? Where will they be sent from? At the time when Greek archaeologists with significant scientific training and passion for the subject cannot work in their field, how can excavations and research be commissioned to foreign missions and schools? It is obvious that Greek archaeologists should be given absolute priority. As far as work on real estate is concerned, we believe that the rules governing the preparation of studies and the performance of work on them, as this is a matter of considerable public interest, should not depend on the disposal of the Minister of Culture and Sport, but should be laid down by formal law. It is complete our opposition to the secondment of undivided sections. Real estate monuments should not only be kept in their natural condition, but should also be remodeled even with newer materials to show their original beauty. Below, with regard to the provisions on museums, we consider them to be areas of protection, promotion, study and exhibition of evidence of the course and development of Greeks and their environment in space and in time. These areas bloom where human culture flourishes and is a mirror and an important body of education and education. They are areas of respect, admiration and evolution. That is why we believe that the procedures, conditions and conditions for the establishment, operation or recognition of museums and for the certification, duration and renewal of it should not be laid down by a decision of the Minister for Culture and Sport by legislative authorisation. We have said so during the committee meeting, we have stressed this in the past and we will continue to say that we are totally opposed to the forecasts for exporting and lending objects of museum collections abroad and, for up to fifty years, to them. It is beyond any logic to lose the object the historical bond with the time when it is kept. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] In order to guarantee the Greek State, to pay compensation in the event of loss or damages of mobile monuments and works of art, of course, we also have the establishment of an Advisory Committee, which recruits two externally with a two-year term of office. Alas. We also have objections to Article 46 concerning access to and use of monuments and sites, as well as the procedure and body for authorising the performance of an event or for granting the use of one or more archaeological sites, historical sites, immovable monuments or museums to carry out cultural or other events are determined by a decision of the Minister of Culture and Sport, which introduces opacity conditions. As far as the penalties are concerned, there should be a greater penalty for the destruction of a monument by negligence, since, as regards the monuments, diligence should be increased. The same applies to the breach of the obligation to declare a monument. It is also incomprehensible that anyone who transfers ownership or possession of a monument or acquires ownership or accepts to come into possession of the monument without the permission required by law, approval or notification, is punished by imprisonment of only up to two years. Is that how you think they'll be conscientious? The same applies to the illicit trafficking of monuments. In general we see penalties - messes. We want to make a special reference to the question we had tabled to extend the dissolution of ships to Kinosura Salamis until 2052 by a decision of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy which makes it difficult to save the monumental landscape of Kinosura and leads the area to total deterioration. You replied that the services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have submitted a question to the Office of the Legal Adviser of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in order to clarify questions of interpretation. What's the matter with this very serious matter? Opinion delivered? We in the Greek Solution believe that our duty to inherit in the next generations what we have received from our ancestors intact and unalterably remains the highest security. In recent years Greek citizens have tended to become a minority within their own country, and we must prevent that from happening with all our powers. That is why safeguarding culture is a very serious matter. Let us not forget, finally, that national bleeding from leaving our country's young people, about six hundred thousand abroad, who have been forced to seek a decent job and a safe working environment, must finally be cured and overturned by providing more incentives for their return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u113	Before we move to the list of speakers and interventions, in the speeches of the Parliamentary Representatives, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question report of Wednesday, 17 November 2021, which reads as follows: A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 173/12-11-2021 by Mr Pericles Mandas, Member of the Messinia Parliament, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of the Corinthian Grape Protection. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by Mr Stavrou Arachovitis, Member of the Radical Left, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on 'Funding Basic Aid 2021', by No 174/12-11-2021. 3. Under No 188/15-11-2021, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Great problems are created by the last moment's joint ministerial decision (CSF) with retroactive power - major reductions in subsidies". 4. The Question No 180/15-11-2021 by F' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisi of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Aattendance of the demands of the farmers of the Municipality of Agia". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 192/15-11-2021 topical question by MP Messinia of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros (Alexis) A gift to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The inertia of the Government to take support measures leads to the collapse of the income of thousands of Corinthian raisin producers." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 181/15-11-2021 by F' Vice President of Parliament and Member of Parliament Laris of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "Loves in olive production in Thessaly from the problem of acarpia and schinocarpia". 3. The 182/15-11-2021 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "The problems of small and medium-sized farmers in Crete". Before we begin the list of speakers, the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement Mr Scandalides, whom we call on the Stepma, has asked for the floor. Three speakers will then be followed by Mr Skourletis, Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA. I propose that we go with that, three speakers and one parliamentary representative. After Mr Scandalidis, as you already know, they are Mr Schmidhuber. Tsavdaridis, Vernardakis and Adamopoulou. Mr. Scandalidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago the Prime Minister asked in the most official way that Great Britain returns the Parthenon Marmara. It is a historic initiative of Melina that, although it did not thrive in the next forty years practically, remains a powerful arm of a national policy with beneficial consequences, because it creates a lasting philanthropic movement in the area of intellectuals and culture in Europe, a lasting philanthropic movement that faces with great sensitivity and the wider problems surrounding the course of our country. This initiative is a typical example of how the Ministry of Culture can exercise a part of a national strategy by complementing institutions and expanding the field of foreign policy. I would therefore expect the government with this type of strategy to bring in a more comprehensive plan with steps, protagonists, hierarchies that will make this arm more effective, especially in the difficult times we live in. The whole cultural and spiritual potential of the place must be integrated into this strategy, the wealth of people who cultivate art and spirit, and above all, it must be strongly supported by criteria and clauses. I must say that the government is far away from this need. It tackles the unsurpassed problems experienced by creators and scientific potential of the country. The image and experiences of the people of culture who form the front of the country, its most innovative and competitive international potential, have no unseen life and reach the point of being decent and lonely. The crustaceans given for culture are not sufficient at this critical moment and in this storm of trouble. A longer-term, longer-term, and more substantial policy should take its place instead of the government's current management policy. If this goes on, our national wealth and our cultural heritage will be spent. Ladies and gentlemen, I will only say a few words about the bill because I believe that our rapporteur and, in general terms, the debate in Parliament has already highlighted in many respects both his negative points and his few positive points. The protection of monuments, the import and export of cultural goods, archaeological research and penalties for violating the relevant legislation are neither a single or a coherent institutional framework. It has not really and effectively dealt with the problems so far. To date, the foundation for the protection of cultural heritage was founded by Law 3028/2002, an innovative and innovative law bearing the signature of the PASOK reflects the timeless reformist dynamic of the Movement, a law that is truly constitutional. The Minister from her own experience has been aware of the development of cultural policy since then and for many years to come. It's been 20 years since. Over the long term, the need to update and adapt the institutional framework to modern data, but also the obligation to harmonise with the international conventions to which our country has acceded, has occasionally led to the adoption of new provisions which either amended Law 3028 or laid down privately in a new context. A complex and diverse institutional framework has therefore been created which creates an obstacle to its implementation. And codification is obviously necessary to facilitate both the institutions of the state and every citizen. However, I would like to make a comment here. This is a defence policy against the problem. Because right now, we need a new weapon. We made this law, but it depleted its limits and potential. There are developments in the area of culture, as well as cultural diplomacy and the general involvement of our country as a culture on the world stage. There are today new problems, new risks and more drastic and more substantial changes that are not met with simple codification. So a new more effective framework is needed, because the relationship between monuments and cultural heritage, with scientific knowledge, with technological development, with new economic data and with the confrontation of the modern problems that cultural development has brought today in terms of the protection of monuments and cultural heritage, would require more drastic areas which the government should recommend to the National Representation and, on the basis of this new framework, to codify it up to now. Instead of demarcating and in parallel with the new framework to codify the existing legislation, you have chosen simple codification. You did well. We won't say no to codification. Codification is a process that we consider to be a key element in good legislation that should be a good piece of legislation, because codification means precisely discharge of day-to-day problems for both citizens and institutions and for public services and for all. It breaks red tape, shortens legislative research, relieves the slant of the provisions that are spread over decades, and for this reason alone, our positive attitude is obviously a given one, and we will vote for this framework as codification. However, the way in which the codification was carried out - and has been highlighted by many today - is not the right way of doing so: Asphyxiating time, non-existent dialogue, rough provisions, clear omissions, fragmentary arrangements. I think that this is the big problem that accompanies this codification, which is also an element in the chain of bad legislation that the government has used to bring us over the last two years to various problems very important for the country. The code to be voted on does not appear to be sufficiently relevant to the problem of polynomialism, because many of the articles that have been mentioned, such as 71 or 52, such as the complaints of the Hellenic Archaeologists Association and all of them, have weaknesses, legal, or omissions, or anything else. We are also right to ask whether there are other provisions of Law 3028 which are not transposed into the code and, if so, what are they not being transposed into it? We have the question of whether it has been chosen to codify only certain provisions of the above legislation, what the code replaces and what provisions are being repealed, but what is the general clause of the proposed Article 74, which speaks of simply abolishing any general special provision and should in any event be specific reference to the provisions repealed, so that it is clear what is codified, what is abolished, what remains. Also, the combined assessment of the encoded arrangements should already have been carried out by the Ministry and recorded in the bill. So there had to be a thorough investigation of the provisions and it was frankly not the time given to the National Representation to do so. Our sense is that a law must be passed by now and beyond the crucial issue of protecting our cultural heritage. I return to what I said at the outset and would like to say with a lot of clarity that antiquities, archaeological sites, our own history is not just a wealthy source or a mere sum in the state budget and, indeed, as weak and insignificant as what the government has today for this so critical activity of the Greek state. It is an integral element of our national identity, of modern Greek iconography, are objects of timeless respect and absolute protection, it is our history and wealth and we should see it with greater respect and greater love. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. We shall now give the floor to the first speaker, Mr Tsavdaridis Lazaro, from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Tsavdaridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today in plenary a piece of legislation that shields, defends, but also highlights the identity and DNA of our own culture, a legislative initiative which, although self-evident, has been building up pluralism and maladministration in the regulatory framework of our cultural heritage, but which has been a matter for years, since in practice the original framework of Law 3028/2002 has also included many legislative amendments with the majority of the legislations being scattered and dazzling. The Government of New Democracy is well aware that updating the channels and the filters for protecting our antiquities is a one-way road if we want to talk about a modern state that respects its cultural footprint on the inhabited world over the centuries and aims to make the best possible use of it for the benefit of modern society itself. And this one-way is determined to turn it into a fast-moving road on the one hand by adopting best-legislative practices which include the recast of the legal text into a more understandable language, the removal of any provisions that have become out of purpose, and the inclusion into this Code of all relevant legislation that will facilitate access to the respective lawmaker and enable everyone involved to have direct and secure knowledge of the overall legislation on the protection of our antiquities and cultural heritage, on the other hand by systematicing and codifying all relevant provisions, in order to enhance the confidence of the managers, simplify the daily lives of citizens, widen the development dimension of our cultural heritage and multiply the effectiveness of the state machine. This Legislation clearly illustrates a cosmopolitan of the necessary codifications relating to, among other extremely important, the time periods for the characterisation of real estate monuments, the institution of the ownership and the exercise of the management of real estate monuments, organized archaeological sites and general property of cultural heritage, the obligations of the owners, legal persons and owners of real estate monuments, the spatial delimitation of archaeological sites, the process of expropriation and deprivation of the use of real estate in which monuments exist, the provisions concerning the conditions for the import and export of cultural goods, the procedure for the return of cultural goods illegally removed from the territory of the country, the archaeological research and the maintenance of monuments, the establishment and operation of museums and the criminal penalties which may be imposed on persons engaged in acts such as theft, the destruction, re-export, re-export, or other illegal export, or illegal export of illegally exploited or illegally exploited, or illegally exploited, or illegally exploited or property. What, though, is the problem of this bill? But the New Democracy Government is bringing this to a vote and not the permanent gruesome, politically miserable, obsessive retrograde SYRIZA, a SYRIZA who even here, in a draft law that does not change, but simply codifies existing provisions, invented opposition speech from zero, because this has learned to do, because that is how he has learned to hide the absolute poverty of his proposals, because he has in his own DNA nourished by sterile denial, barren confrontation, toxicity and turbulence. SYRIZA therefore asked for the withdrawal of the bill and spoke of a attack on democracy. And while his rapporteur was supposed to not want, as she told us in her committee, to give any bad intentions to neither the Minister nor anyone else for the articles in question 66 and 71, but immediately thereafter she spoke of a permanent parliamentary coup and left the debate. Let us imagine what he would say or what he would do as a SYRIZA if his rapporteur were badly intent.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u117	I hadn't read, sir. It's important you haven't read.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u118	Don't interrupt, please. Go on, Mr. Tsavdaridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u119	You should have read and then placed!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u120	No dialogue, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u121	The essence, however, is that all this crab is caused by SYRIZA for the impressions alone,...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u122	On the substance of the matter, speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u123	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u124	Do you want to let me talk and not bother? Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u125	Come on, Mr. Tsavdaridis, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u126	Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u127	Yeah, but look, we can't... You do too. They are not 'only ours'. Take note of the expressions you are addressing, too. Continue your speech, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u128	As far as Article 66 is concerned, this covers all the archaeological sites and in no case changes any provision on the substance. With regard to Article 71, the severe penalties the New Democracy Government reinstated in August 2019 are fully in line with this Code of Criminal Procedure, while on the contrary you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, were the ones who, shortly before the elections, voted for and in secret the Criminal Code, from which you completely removed the strict provisions on cultural heritage. Ladies and gentlemen, as a Member of the Imathia Parliament I have the honour of representing a county, which, apart from the first pan-Hellenic in the production of agricultural products, such as peaches and apples, is also a region famous for its exceptional wines. It has an excellent mixture of natural, cultural and mainly archaeological heritage, with crowns the world archaeological legacy of Vergina, the wolf stone of western civilization, the emblematic school of Aristotle in Naoussa, Panagia Sommela, the cradle of Pontian Hellenism, the wonderful Byzantine churches, the Step of Apostle Paul in Veroia, as well as the important antiquities of Anthemia, Alro, in Meliki, and Nikomedia. This place welcomes the new regulatory framework for the protection of antiquities and cultural heritage, because this framework will not only cultivate the ground for economic blooming of local societies and for serious investment that will add value to our material and intangible cultural wealth, but mainly because it will preserve this wealth as an eyewitness to deliver it intact and radiation to the generations that come. If this ultimate task, the opposition finds reason to drug it for micro-political purposes, then I'm sorry, but it separates us abyss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u129	Next speaker, Mr. Christoforos Vernardakis, from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Bernardakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. They say that the process is often a substance and even a more important one. So let's see some issues. Minister, you have set up a working group on October 9, 2020, without the participation of the relevant Directorates General of the Ministry of Culture, that is, the Department of Antiquities and Cultural Heritage, the Restoration of Museums, an independent Department of Legislative Work. Your right obviously, but there is a problem of procedure. The Directorates-General, as you know, and as you know from the legislation of the State of staff, but also from the case law on public administration, are public policy structures, they are public policy structures. So how can these three Directorates-General, which are at the heart of codification of legislation, have no reason to even know and not just participate? Let it be. But you have to answer that. It is a question, a good question. Secondly, on 24 March 2021 the Committee on Coding gives you a final text of the draft code on what we are debating today. You don't change it, you say. As you got it, that's how you bring it. Eight months, then, it's in a drawer, okay, and it doesn't change. So you have it, eight months. You've probably studied it, probably, the working group saw it, checked it out. A simple question: why don't you give eight days - not eight months, eight days - to the Committee on Educational Affairs, to the MPs, to the political parties to see it, to check it out? Good faith. You have not intervened in this text. It is a text which the Central Coding Committee has given you. I should like to ask you something: why should the President of the Commission not come to the Morphics Commission, or to a representative who has worked on this codification, to answer good questions? Because there's probably ambiguities, there's omissions. There has been a glossy task, indeed, codification. So why don't the man come here and explain to us, answer the questions? It's really worthy of wonder. Why do you come here today and even make an amendment to what you have tabled, which you do not change - otherwise! - you do not analyse, it is like, "take it and vote it", but you are now starting with a legislative improvement. We asked the committee responsible yesterday to submit to us the documents submitted to you by the Central Coding Committee - I think we should insist - not the letter, the whole text, the whole text, the whole codification with the comments, with the remarks that may exist pursuant to Article and, of course, the original recital. Because some critical remarks relating to the articles have been removed here in the explanatory statement. Is it wrong? Is that a misunderstanding? Is it appropriate? It needs to be investigated, because there are some issues that are serious. Our fear of what is the objection? And I think it has emerged from all the speakers of all the parties. That this codification is a pretext for substantial changes to the critical provisions of the archaeological law, Law 3028/2002. They have mentioned, I have no time to discuss in detail, such as Articles 15, 15a, 15b, 15c, 16, 17 and, of course, the relevant Articles 66 and 71. You too, at the beginning of your speech today, at the beginning of the sitting, with the legislative work you are doing in Article 66, are in fact admitting that there is one problem here, there are problematic provisions that should not normally exist. Because if there had been time, if a serious consultation had been given, a serious advancement of the committees that have worked, we would normally not have come to that suspicion - if there is a suspicion on our part. It is also the famous article 71, which is completely omitted from the code. More has been discussed, others have said so. I shall read what you said in the committee responsible - a - mot. What did you say to the competent committee the other day? Article 71 of Law 3028/2002 is repealed because the provision of the jurisdiction of the three-member court of appeal for the judgment of the crimes is laid down in Article 111a(5) of the new Code of Criminal Procedure. What are you talking about here? First - first - that it is abolished. It is'repealed', you say it here with a word in particular. So you don't have a codification, as the law of the state just defines. So you didn't get the provisions to put them in order, clean up the non-functional ones or those that have been abolished, do this indexation that the law says. You're going down here, and you're saying that. In any case, the question that remains to be answered is as follows: This Criminal Code refers to and is based on Article 71 of Law 3028/2002. How will he judge? It doesn't produce self-contained... The Code of Criminal Procedure judges infringements, crimes based on pre-existing legislation. When you guys erase that, it's like you're staying in the void. Article 111, therefore, remains in the void, completely in the void. In other words, it has no legal basis and therefore many reservations, comments, fears of public opinion, Members of Parliament, parties, to us. All the parties have pointed this out so far, and so far, the removal of Article 71. But now we are going to the most important issue, in my opinion, raised by all the parties again, and by you, indirectly, with your first speech. It is not possible to codify and codify the process of permanent intrusion into the legalisation of provisions or omissions from the back door. This really is a parliamentary coup! Because, in fact, if this process is legalised, we will have legalisation, change, variant, articles, texts and so on and not legality, with the formal parliamentary procedure of the debate in a draft law by the committee responsible. We'll have arrangements coming through the back door! There is a question of who finally legislates. Here, in other words, we have a bypass procedure and it is also a matter of responsibility for the Bureau itself if it will accept through the codification procedure - which will obviously also come for the other Ministries - if we legalise such a procedure. With horror I think of whether these things are done in this piece of legislation, what happens to the laws of the Ministry of the Environment that will regulate saints, forest maps, property, aerial photographs a hundred years ago and so on. It can also be applied to agricultural legislation and so on. If, therefore, the whole process of codification is not changed, then there will be real legitimacy for anyone who believes that a permanent parliamentary coup is taking place, because Members, parties and Parliament will not legislate, but there will be various experts who bear a text in the code, who will be discussed in half a day and whoever will vote and whoever wants to vote will not vote. This is not a parliamentary procedure. Unfortunately, we are starting this practice from the Ministry of Culture. It does not surprise us because it is the example of maladministration for these two years, but I would like to believe that the Bureau will also be involved here in order to stop this process immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u131	The next speaker is Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulou from Mera25. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, you will allow me to tell you that you have also put your staff port in the depreciation of Parliament and of the legislative procedure. I say this because you have been holding a code in your drawers for eight months now as if it were a secret state secret, instead of distributing it to the parties represented in Parliament in order to express their comments and their comments and to those responsible, most of all, who can be placed on issues relating to our cultural heritage, such as the associations of archaeologists, the academic community, the officials of the Ministry of Culture, the Civil Society. And after this absurd and childish hiding, as if this eight-month-old hideout wasn't enough, in the middle of a literally night, in other words, on Tuesday night, you brought the code. You brought him into one single debate on Thursday morning and you are now speeding up his vote with rapid procedures, having given him thirty-six hours of room. This is an unacceptable abusive behaviour which betrays two things: on the one hand, the suspected intention of the Ministry and the Government to pass a code without consultation or the minimum consultation, and, on the other, the non-transparent and property logic with which the Ministry and the Government deal with issues relating to our antiquities and cultural heritage. And because in a recent interview you described yourself as a man of duty, I have the following question: From what sense of duty and responsibility and on what basis do you promote blindly harmful and destructive choices, accompanied by a history of multiple errors that are borne by your entire term of office? Can I refer to the dirty Lignade case? Can I refer to the cement and the problematic non-functional elevator in the Acropolis? Can I refer to your catastrophic choices for the Metro of Thessaloniki? In your unreasonable manipulations for the people of art, music, culture in general? Fast track licenses for commercial photographies and passarellas in archaeological sites? May I mention the lightness with which you have tried to reduce the risk to the Mycenaeans by mentioning the well-known "pop" of Mycenas? Can I refer to the degradation of even her own student at the tour schools? May I refer to the cradle with the so-called "boxes" on the Tatoi estate? Unfortunately, with all these practices you build a CV day that is to avoid. And to prevent your unexplained counterpart of allegedly subjective and supposedly another ideological and political approach - which we are tired of listening to this argument from all the ministers - I will tell you not to listen to my opinion. But I will invite you to listen to the opinion of an eminent scientist, one of the most prominent Greeks of the Diaspora. He is the Professor of Ancient History and Classical Studies at the Institute of Advanced Studies at the University of Princeton, the United States, Mr. Angelos Haniotis, who is also a socialist of genuine excellence. Recently, he dedicated you several reports in his interview. I'll tell you what he said. He described the study on antiquities at the stations "Agia Sophia" and "Venizelos" in Thessaloniki, while he considers that a road, a square, a building is historically important as evidence of the past where they were found and nowhere else. The Gate of Adrianos, for example, is a witness to the topography of Athens where it is located. As you cannot move the gate of Adrianos or the walls of Themistocles, says Mr. Haniotis, because their position may harass traffic, so you cannot arbitrarily change the location of a street or square as a presumption of the urban history of Thessaloniki. The antiquities repositioned, he says, have completely lost their originality as monuments and this fragmented, sloppy and unscrupulous replacement gives a foretaste of what is to be done and of the rest of the antiquities. What did Mr. Haniotis have for you personally? He says: "Mrs. Mendoni has shown that she can separate her scientific property from her service in government positions, previously as Secretary-General, now as Minister. The construction of the Kopilatromio in the historical landscape of Marathon, the registration of the Altar of the Twelve Gods in Athens, the hasty excavation of the Tymvos of Amphipolis that endangered the stasis of the monument, are examples of political choices that an archaeologist would disagree with. And at the end of August, in an interview at "Kathimerini" Haniotis had charged Ms. Mendonis with unreliability and misinformation. The same and worse it says now. It calls you a "executive policy body for which the Prime Minister himself is responsible" and wonders why Mr Mitsotakis chose this policy for Thessaloniki. To satisfy caramanlic voters? To satisfy other interests? However, certainly not to serve the Thessalonians. The Metro could have operated on 12 stations, if the project prepared in 2017 and which he himself personally had personal responsibility and without cause had been cancelled in 2019. So I wonder - Mr Haniotis says - what 2023 will say when the Metro is not ready. Unless they put bulldozers in ancient times! So I ask what you have to say about everything that Mr Haniotis is accusing you of. Do not consider my views. Consider this man’s views. What I have to say is that, unfortunately, your things are making your term a failure and under the circumstances of a country that has such an important cultural wealth. And the responsibility, of course, is borne in mind by the Prime Minister himself who made this choice in the Ministry's political leadership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mrs Adamopoulou. We will now give the floor to the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Skourletis. Here, Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is not taking place on a frozen basis and let me make a reference to an initiative taken by SYRIZA through the Health Officer Mr. Xanthos, who sent today a letter to the Minister of Health on the need for a cross-party committee to be convened at the Ministry of Health, so that we can know how things are going. I think that this is where we've arrived is not allowed any attempt to exorcise. Statements by government officials, people of your own space, who speak of Fake ICs, lack of staff and also numbers require a new design, to discuss what the appropriate measures are here that we have reached, effective measures. But surely you can't sleep alone. You can't go on the same non-project. The fact is that you do not have a plan adapted to the critical conditions imposed by the pandemic and the health crisis. So I think that this proposal should be accepted. It's the least you have to do. You cannot ignore the reports of the ECDC, which classified Greece in the most dangerous category in relation to COVID. I do not want to go any further on this, but I felt it necessary to report this. I think, Minister, and on the basis of the intervention you have made, before the positions in the form of legislative change begin, that you confirmed all the criticism of the whole opposition at the start of the debate in the committee and indirectly admitted that something was not done the right way. Because in the end, we don't have a dry coding here. The committee itself speaks and provides for the procedure for the reform of the rules, so the amendment, which requires the debate referred to in Article. That's what I told you. And you went out here out of your clothes, you told us we were targeting you. We have many reasons to target you for what you have done, but not for that. So why didn't you give the necessary time to the opposition parties to study, come with specific remarks, but did you think that this was out of place and time? Why, time is only your right, eight months to have this code in your desk drawers? So you see that while we have asked you for time, you as if you were being persecuted and told that, in any case, we cannot keep up with the Minister and have a monopoly against her. But the remarks of the Association of Greek Archaeologists tell you something very simple and something very important: the services of the Ministry did not participate in the entire debate. Do you think a little bit? Do you think those who manage the Ministry's institutional memory are right to stay out of the debate? Do you have that concept of legitimisation? That is right before my colleague from Mera25 told you that you have a proprietary perception, both on the cultural issues and on the relationship you have with the Ministry. So you are not a minister of duty, you are an extreme case that you do not respect either the hierarchy of your own colleague, the Ministry, whom you have put aside. For example, we see - for example - which confirms that we have had a dimension of reform - to amend provisions - that the famous article 15 on the case of shipwrecks, the case of aerial archaeological sites is introduced for the first time, when your own government recently passed a law on this content, which you did not say. So it's something new. There is also this sluggishness, as colleagues have said before you, that in the case of the Peristerian shipwreck you arbitrarily put a price of EUR 50 when this case is part of an ESDP programme and you know that the amount of the price is determined by national participation, what you will get from Europe. So that's what you have budgeted for, you incorporate it? And you are now coming back to tell us by means of an OHIM what the price will be, while you have already submitted your proposal to the respective European committees? Isn't this a swaggering sample? Minister, I think that your presence at the Ministry is condensed by your attitude and your work on the case of the ancients of the Venizelos St. You take the cost of this view, but the point is that you have run across an entire country internationally and repeat the same logic in the case of the Parthenon. It is something that will accompany you, describe you and not be proud. It is only that, as I have said before, it is not about a case of yours. That's why you'll find us across the street. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow is the Polytechnic anniversary and this anniversary, beyond all the messages it sends over time, was a youth uprising, a youth affair. In fact, in Greece today, what messages do we send to the new generation? What future do we expect from her, when some eight hundred thousand young people, mainly young people, are paid EUR 470 a month, when our youth sees today's NSA tracking her according to her attitude, preferences and Facebook posts in relation to migrants' issues, how do these run counter to the University's liberatory time-liberating messages, which continue to inspire the new generation? It is no coincidence then that young people do not trust you as government and show you in every way. And you answer them with authoritarianism, surveillance, repression. Ladies and gentlemen, Merra25 has tabled an amendment, and it is about its proposal to include couriers and delivers into the regime of heavy and unhealthy people. We're signing it 100%. Besides, a similar initiative, which you did not accept as a government, we have taken at least twice and not just for delinquents, but also for the health workers, the health workers whom you continue, after almost two years of pandemic, to let them work at the worst of the conditions, while you see the ESS is falling apart. You have not even thought of putting the issue of doctors' pay when young children finish, good scientists, the schools in Greece and go directly abroad because they cannot stand, they do not have the prospect of working here in a creative way. I would like to say, however, in addressing the opposition parties, the left-wing and progressive opposition, that yes, this amendment is an opportunity to create social and political pressure on the government in order to accept the proposal for delinquency and couriers to be subject to heavy and unhealthy conditions. They are all those who - and from what I saw a moment ago - deposited their wreath at the Polytechnics University - won a great victory over the Hatzidakis Anti-American Law. And this is an opportunity to agree on the abolition of the law of Hatzidakis. We have an obligation towards a disastrous policy, which now appears to be its character, its anti-social character, to create walls, to create social and political conditions to stop this curse, to stop the undermining of labour rights. We can demand an increase in the minimum wage as a small step towards accuracy, which not only shows its teeth, literally bites. Households will return to the energy poverty regime. The electricity and fuel prices show that. And this government is celebrating, for others it is cursing. Are we going to leave them, ladies and gentlemen, or are we going to see what we can do - slowly, but firmly - for this government to fall in the way it is in the republics, with the vote of the Greek people and the social struggles? Socio-social struggles can start today. This challenge is, I think, addressed to all the left-wing and progressive forces and no one can ignore it. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that the times, indeed, are not waiting for us. The present government has now shown that it is a government that is interested in closing jobs through opaque assignments, that it operates in the dark of direct opaque assignments - yesterday I was asking Mr Hatzidakis about this sinful 12,000 contract, which, in essence, degrades the Labour Inspectorate - that it works to implement a programme of outdated privatisation by creating private monopolies at the expense of the public interest, that it works so that it does not use the money of the Recovery Fund, which is a great opportunity for the place, but to satisfy its own interlocutors, those few social forces of the oligarchy that it wants to express. So we all have to take responsibility and see what we can do so that we can put an end to this catastrophe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u135	Mrs Panagiota (Nonis) has the floor now in New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our culture is our greatest legacy and asset. It makes us proud to be Greek and inspires us, as well as all other peoples, since Greek culture is a global point of reference. The great importance New Democracy attaches to culture and the continued effort of the government to highlight serious cultural issues is evident to all of us. After all, we have seen it very recently with the opening of the pioneering project "Olympia: Common Place", a project that results from the excellent collaboration of the Ministry of Culture and Sport and the "MICROSOT", which allows viewers around the world to explore Ancient Olympia as it was more than two thousand years ago, through an interactive application for mobile phones, through a browsing in the digital form of the historical computer space, as well as through the exhibition by Microsoft HoloLens 2 housed in the Athens Olympic Museum. The high position of cultural issues on the Prime Minister's agenda appeared, further with his reference a few days ago to the issue of the return of the Parthenon sculptures to Greece during his speech at the celebration to complete the seventy-five years after the establishment of UNESCO. We see, then, that demanding daily life can require intensive attention to issues such as the health crisis, the preservation of public health and the response to the effects of pandemic on the economy, but this does not mean that Greek culture, its dissemination and its defence are not, over time, one of our most important priorities. But let's move on to the object. Ladies and gentlemen, we are today called upon to ratify, in accordance with Article 76(7) of the Constitution, the Code of Law on the Protection of Antiquities and of Cultural Heritage in general. As you know, the process of voting the codes is very specific. It does not amend provisions, but lists the provisions which already exist. This is, in other words, a piece of legislation, which gathers in a text all the relevant, dispersed and dispersing provisions. It is not, therefore, a burden on the state budget. The codification of the legislation aims to restructure provisions, but also to remove the provisions that have been explicitly or implicitly repealed and the transitional provisions that no longer apply. In addition, it aims at recasting the texts in an identifiable language and adapting the provisions, which define competences of administrative and other bodies, to the current organisational structure of the public services. This codification, apart from making the principle of unity and legal certainty, at the same time simplifys our everyday life by enabling both the administrative bodies and citizens to have direct access and safe knowledge of the entire legislation passed on to the protection of antiquities and cultural heritage. This possibility is very important, especially for educational and scientific purposes. The codification process is necessary, as Law 3028/2002, which succeeded Law 5351/1932, although it was a law that was extremely complete and innovative for its time, has been subject to several legislative amendments within the 20 years. Apart from Law 3028 extensive arrangements for the protection of cultural heritage, we meet in later legislation such as Law 3521/2006, which is the contract of ratification for the protection of intangible cultural heritage and Law 4355/2015 on the adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive 2014/60 of the European Commission, the European Parliament and of the Council on the return of cultural goods illegally removed from the territory of a Member State. Thus, the codification of the system of regulation on cultural heritage, as well as other divestments, including: The regulations on divestment tourism in the visiting archaeological sites, the extended jurisdiction of the Greek courts for differences in ownership, presumption and possession of mobile monuments, as well as the limitation of the responsibility of the Presidents and the members of the Advisory Councils. It is worth noting that this codification by the Central Coding Committee was taken into account in the case law of the Council of State. But let us move on to the contents of the bill we have to vote on. This consists of a total of ten sections, including arrangements for the protection of cultural heritage, real estate monuments and movable monuments, archaeological research, conservation and protection of monuments, museums, access and use of monuments and sites, the return of cultural goods illegally removed from the territory of a Member State, as well as the financial incentives and collective bodies of the Ministry. We also find criminal special transitional provisions and, of course, the final provisions. The text of the existing provisions was, in principle, transposed from the relevant legislation. Only a few articles have been recast so that the existing arrangements are made in accordance with the relevant judicial decisions of the Council of State. Ladies and gentlemen, with the draft legislation being passed, we will have a coherent consolidated legislation to protect our antiquities and cultural heritage. The codification of legislation will ensure the right of all citizens to free, direct and lasting access to our cultural goods and strengthen the confidence of the administration. At the same time, it will contribute to highlighting our cultural heritage, supporting contemporary cultural creation and achieving the objectives of government policy in this area. Above all, however, it will be a solid framework that will give a new impetus to our international cultural radiation. For all these reasons, I urge you to vote in favour of this bill, thereby supporting our culture. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Dunya. The next speaker is Ms. Sunday Malama from SYRIZA. After Mrs. Malama, Mr. Hetas, Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr. Kavvadas and Mr. You have the floor, Mrs Malama.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today for the codification of archaeological legislation, the government and the leadership of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, are trying to present it as a routine process, which simply collects provisions and classifies them in a text. But in reality this is an attempt to dismantle the protection of the ancient cultural heritage of our country. This government, and it is good to remember these, has legislated monstries in relation to the antiquities of our country, such as lending to private individuals abroad for fifty years, has legislated the composers and bulldozers in Byzantine Pompey of the antiquities of Venizelos, has opened the ferry door to the privatisation of the museums, has embedded the Acropolis and made it passarella, has burned the Mycenas, while Ancient Olympia escaped rather from a miracle when Tatoi became ashes. So in this supposed codification of routine archaeological legislation, things are even more overflowing, thus reducing penalties for archbishops and archaeological trespassers. Do you know what message you are sending with this bill to codify archaeological legislation - and of course it is not enough to improve the last minute's legislation - that you brought us here? So the message you are sending is that of the conversion of our archaeological sites into a clear vine. Legislation with lightness, without realizing that penalties for those who guard antiquities or trample or vandalize archaeological sites must be draconian. How will we claim the acropolis sculptures and all the antiquities that have been illegally removed from our country by sending such messages? So do not present these provisions as a neutral bureaucratic procedure. Because if that were the case, you would not hide them in your drawer for eight months, and you would not now come with corrections, overflows in substance, quickly, in a debate that leads nowhere with the attitude you are holding. So your sloppiness and lightness is monumental. Don't you have anything to say about the shocking statement by the Prime Minister, who in Ancient Olympia said he'd bring out the olives of the archaeological site to sell, he says, oil at opportunity prices? Why don't you tell us how much money you've lost from the monuments' profits, how much money you've lost from the dissolution of the museum shops you've made, how much money you've lost from your inhibitions through the application of the online ticket? Are you interested only in the oils of Ancient Olympia? Well, it looks like it. I now come to a subject of enormous national and global importance to the protection of a global monument, the Ancient Stagiers in the Olympiad of Halkidiki. You are aware of this monument very well, Minister, but you have not protected it and are currently being threatened. We will see you at the Plenary Step so that the whole world can hear it, but also the international community. You have signed the installation of a huge industrial fishing plant in direct proximity and contact with this global monument. You have signed the construction of huge cages and cement marine facilities right across from the monument. You have signed the construction of a land-based fishing plant just next to the monument in an area of NATURA, in an area with ancient antiquities, in an area of unparalleled natural beauty on the globe. You have signed these on the basis of rough and incorrect procedures. Why do you allow this cannibalism of the world cultural heritage? I'm presenting you in the Minutes a flash drive with the photos of the location where you're going to fit this thing. Take a look at your office, although you know them very well. [[At this point Members Sunday Malama present for the minutes the above-mentioned USB mask, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We know there are unfair pressures on the Archaeological Service so you don't do your job well. We know that there are findings written on the leg by archaeologists who did not study the evidence or who even worse ignored the evidence. We now invite you to become aware of the problem and to immediately stop what you are going to do as a government in Ancient Stagira, because the local society, the Municipality of Aristotle, the archaeologists, the international community, all are opposed to this disaster that you are planning for the Ancient Stagiras, when the Aristotle State, the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki and the Municipality of Aristotle discuss the creation of an international aristotle center in Olympiada in Ancient Stagira. Instead of contributing to this plan, however, you fill the Ancient Stagira with cages, with blocs, with bulky installations, with industrial pollution, with visual nuisance, with a deterioration of the archaeological site. The Olympiad society is literally on the leg. All together, the citizens united with one voice are determined to reach the end. Already the legal procedures to stop this abortion run for the placement of these industrial activities because they are crystallised. So we urge you now to instruct the Archbishop of Antiquities of Halkidiki and Mount Athos to examine the dossier from the outset because there are service errors and omissions for which all those who signed this opinion will be checked. Take this opinion back. The destruction of the Ancient Stars is not going to pass and you will find us across. And most importantly, you'll find the whole Olympiad society across the street. This impediment of the government to the destruction of the Ancient Stagiers will not pass as the destruction of Venizelos antiquities will not pass. We are not going to allow this and we will fight with all the institutional means to cancel these decisions. We invite you not to reach the extremities. We invite you to review your opinion of the Ancient Stagiras and immediately stop their destruction. There is no place for industrial fishing units in the vital area of the Ancient Stagiras. It's a crime equivalent to what you commit in Venizelos and you'll answer for it. These were some of the examples of what it means to you to protect the ancient cultural heritage. So stop my wraths supposedly your battle hips because you don't convince anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u139	Thank you. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr Konstantinos Hetas is next. You are entitled to half the year, Mr Heta, as the President of your parliamentary group spoke. And then Mr Heta has the floor, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u140	Every three of us have said, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u141	There are a few Members left, Mr Marcus.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u142	Thank you. Mr President, Mrs Mendoni, for twenty-eight-three minutes the President of the Greek Solution spoke and is the only one who was found today in your bill and honoured in substance with his presence and his analysis of the bill, as well as the cultural area, as well as our rapporteur, Mrs Asmakopoulou. So, Mr President, you will allow me, as a parliamentary representative, to make a reference to two other issues which I think deserve reference. One is about you. He's in the State Office and it's about the piece of sport more. I'll tell you in a minute. To make a comment only on the part we are discussing because you are interested in the ancients, but in fact you have cut and extracted the ancients found in Venizelos for the Metro. It's a very long story, and I don't want to spend my little time today. It's a very important issue, but it's a sample. I want to make some references to a very important issue. You know, what concerns society and everyday life, that is, this devil called COVID and has changed our lives for twenty-two months. You know, Minister, there is also the parliamentary representative here and the government's Members, I will make no mention today of why we are going to go to vaccines, but to talk about this whole story of the COVID pandemic and about the mistakes, some very important mistakes that you have made and about which I think we have never talked about. You know what he's gonna say? You made a huge mistake. You have made contact, Mr. Parliamentary Representative and Minister, the issue of the vaccination of the world and whether the Greek citizen and the Greek woman will make their decision to make the vaccine, which is his inalienable right to do or not to do so, and you have contacted some people completely wrong. I mean, look at it a little, because in life, it's how you communicate something. You put people - I will speak with names today - like Ms. Pagonis, Mr. Vassilakopoulos to convince Greek women and Greeks that Mrs. Pagonis only cares about going to a TV channel, going to take a walk in the morning shop, making a new lifestyle. What made you think that these people, Mrs. Pagonis or Mr. Vassilakopoulos, who, if you want to, have created a feeling of confrontation or of no serious profile, will convince Greek women and Greeks of getting serious scientists to talk to the world and convince them? Or Mr. Symposia, where you were at the beginning, who disappeared. Look at it a little like a picture. And I appeal to people who know what to say communication. Wrong choices. You have produced quite the opposite results. You have created in the world irritation, disillusionment and contempt by targeting - of course - and these people. But Mrs. Pagonis is dying for a show more than to make a real place on the ground and convince a person who is among doing so and does not do so and he does not know what decision to make and sees this thing that you made in front of you, this scene you set up. The second mistake. You're talking about a doctor's order today because doctors aren't enough to say it simply and populously. Is it possible that the doctors won't make it? Because by ordering doctors you will get them from somewhere else private individuals, who have ten, thirty, a hundred patients who are tired and who will be missed by some other patients at the same time. And you order at the same time that you have so many worthy fighters, so medical staff that you've pulled it off and punished them avengerly because they haven't done the vaccine while they need it in battle. They're the same people who applauded them from the balconies hypocritically, and now you've got them thrown around the corner. And you have them in vengeance, not in substance and meaning, because if you saw the substance, these people, by doing tests only day after day would be healthy and would offer their services. But you don't care about the substance. You care about revenge. Third mistake, IF. So let's talk about things that aren't about the vaccines. Decide how many ICUs we have, no have, how many we all have. Do we have a thousand, a thousand two hundred, a thousand three hundred? Every Member every ten minutes, every minister of government goes out and says another number. Decide how many we have and how they work. Because the prosecutor intervened on Mr. Vassilakopoulos's statement that they were operating ICUs without being properly staffed, resulting in increased austerity. Your man, your man, said it! So, fairy tale and the one with the ICUs. How many shallows are there? Fourthly, measures that cannot convince the world. Measures of a kart, fines on the cosmaki, you close the shop in cafeteria, in villages in the province - most of us are from the region - 2,000 fines are imposed, 7,000 fines, for example. He had the mask here, he had standing in his cafeteria, a poor man. That is where we run out of all the rigour. You are kneeling the shopkeepers, exhaust your rigour at the cafeterias, hunt faithful and priests, but leave the mosques uncontrollably, allow the "Amals" to take walks, allow the marches, allow the marathons with five, six, seven, eight thousand people yesterday, the other day, the other day, full of clubs and the discotheques and the buds with a thousand people inside, allow the march tomorrow to take place on November 17. Otherwise we have COVID. If you find the scarf with the mask up to the nose in the cafeteria in Velvet, you'll cut him 5,000 fines. But that's not serious. That's how you divide society into two. The system has failed in a pan-European way. It's not just a question of Greece, and you need to see it. Mr President, I shall submit evidence. Austria, in Lockdown, the invasive. Netherlands, partial lockdown. Norway, reintroduction of restrictive measures. EC internal market, economic and social cohesion, economic and monetary union, economic In the Netherlands 82% of the 12-year-old children are vaccinated and have sixteen thousand cases a day. Why is that? But they're vaccinated! In Norway unvaccinated health workers work normally with two tests a week. They're doing two tests a week, Mr. Doctor, and people work. This is where you have them on the outside. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Norway has announced that 84% of adults are vaccinated and calmed down the restrictions and the last few days the cases have gone up, they have restored the restrictions. Just things, what don't you understand? One and one are two. It's not the pandemic of the invaders, it's the pandemic of pandemic and it's about everyone. Or do you have the illusion that the clubs that go into six hundred people don't get stuck with each other? She's getting crazy in there. So a little seriousness, if you want to convince and convince some more people to get vaccinated, as you so much cut that off. Ice and Vasilakopoulos can't do business. Ms. Mendonis, your partner at the Ministry, Mr. Aygeakis, who was here today in a Commission, in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, announced the composition of the Committee on Professional Sport. Listen, Mr President, and I'll be done in a minute and a half. It is another sample that you have absolutely no contact with society and you do not care what is said out there. Why don't you go for a walk, see what the world thinks about this Committee of Professional Sports, of which two members "flooded" six months ago and before the trial of a case by Mr.Aegeans, two new members. You remember what happened. Remember what this committee is that almost put a brothel two years ago, with an unbelievable, handy of what turned out to be a decision to throw Xanthi in the Second National Category. This committee, of which, Mr. Mendoni, a political leader is Mr. Aygeakis - he appoints the committee - effectively threw Xanthi into the Second National after thirty years and left Thrace without a team. After thirty years, such a sensitive area as Thrace stayed without a team. Mr. Ausgeakis' committee. Two people have planted them themselves. Who are these two people? He's Mr. Julakis, who's Mr. Aygeakis' best man. This is excellence and dignity in Greece. The other is Mr. Bearides. Instead of punishing these people and deporting them, because they have exposed you as a government, as a state, you also reward them in the new composition of the committee, you maintain them. While their services were unpaid, now you're paying them over. She's no longer worth it. They're also getting money now. Well, whole country, so big a tank, you only find the best men to appoint and put into the committees? So what happened? This committee made a decision based on a report, became a mess in the championship, disembodied Xanthi, who had no money to go to KAS, pay European courts, pay lawyers, and so the team was destroyed, a whole region was left after thirty years without a group from Thrace. It's a disgrace and you keep them in position. And not only do you keep them, reposition them, and pay them, with buttons, Mrs. Mendoni. Unfortunately, this also reflects on you, because it is a Ministry of Culture and Sport. That is what has happened today in this Chamber. Get out and listen to the world. You're not doing well. Change it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u143	Subsequent to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Christos Bukokouros. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, on the general topical and urgent subject, I should like to say two things entirely concise. Firstly, I do not believe that there is another European country where pandemic and its consequences have been communized and not politicised to the extent that it is happening in our country. Even in countries which are much more severely affected, the cooperation of the political forces is certainly better than our country. Secondly, the government - and I reply to various colleagues who have heard during today's debate - has given many positions on the National Health System. It cannot be overlooked that the vast majority of these seats are declared barren and these competitions are repeated. Thirdly, no one is pleased about the political backing of private doctors, but this is also necessary, at a time when the National Health System is being put under pressure from pandemic and will be done in a measure and rational manner and to the extent necessary. The fourth point we must say, ladies and gentlemen, is that the National Health System has been strengthened, as has been read by the numbers, whether in an absolute number of intensive treatment units, staff or in ICUs, either in material or in new structures. The system is completely reinforced and those who today make the guinea pigeons of strengthening the system had not seen to this extent the pressure that the system can accept in order to take such initiatives. I close the issue of pandemic and general political controversy. In today's debate some Members have not deliberately understood that today we are not legislating in the classic sense of the term, because I have heard many colleagues put unrelated issues to say 'what you are doing about one issue, what you are doing about the other'. Today we are codifying existing provisions and codification - everyone accepts that - over time - is a cure for pluralism and evil by extension. Therefore, the current procedure is very beneficial, but it is not as it may be, and this has been shown by some colleagues' positions, that new provisions on the first or second, which each Member or every political party believes can be introduced. So I come to the debate and say that what the Minister had to say was that it has been done. Therefore, if we do agree that codification is a cure for pluralism and maliciousness, the plenary must vote on today's codification, otherwise we are saying other things. Therefore, Mr President, Minister, I will not go into the essence of what we are discussing today but on a point of interest to my constituency and there has been a lot of discussion, not both in the House and in the media, with various statements by representatives of opposition and so on. I will refer to the Alonissos, in particular, Peristera and the leading underwater museum of Greece and, in the opinion of many, Europe. Because here, on the basis of Article 46 and paragraph 3, it has become an entire attempt to show that the entry fee, the ticket to say it simply, is a high and forbidden price. And at first sight, Minister, that seems to be the case. If we analyse things in a way comparable to what happens to other submarine destinations, however, which is clearly lesser than this submarine underwater archaeological museum, we may have other conclusions. Is there a lot of EUR 50 for Europe's top submarine destination right now, the Peristeras Sea Museum in Alonissos? What exactly are we going to compare these 50 euros with? Is it with the EUR 35 in the interior of the country, at the diving destination of Buliagmeni, just outside the lake of Buliagmeni, where diving is limited to a few metres deep? Are we going to compare them to the EUR 50 that you pay for at the respective submarine destination, but without archaeological significance, in Naples, Italy, where you pay EUR 50 for a diving that no one has to do with diving in the waters and the findings of the Alonissos? Comparing them to the corresponding Barcelona field, where the price is that, and if the other costs are taken into account, is it much higher? Should we compare these 50 euros of the Alonissos Peristera ticket with the corresponding diving destinations in Turkey that start from EUR 50 and reach up to EUR 300? I would say, therefore, that despite the initial reactions from both local bodies, Minister, both from the mayor and from the Union of Hoteliers and from the people living from the marine park and from the visits there, it is not as high a price as it originally tried to support. Maybe it's the first time we've been talking about price, because last summer the underwater museum was inaugurated in Peristera. We've been closed for a year, and we're on our way to second year. So I would say that if we want to show a sea destination at the level that belongs, we cannot afford access fee, the ticket. No way. It must be demonstrated that this is the country's top submarine destination. And not just the country, the whole of Europe. And it is. If we say that the ticket will be 5 or 10 euros, do we not lose the importance of this destination? Nevertheless, Minister, I would like to say this. In these diving destinations there are occasional visitors and divers, who really spend a lot of money. As long as you think that a complete equipment can start from 5,000 to 10,000 euros and therefore 50 euros for a visit to the Alonissos submarine museum for such a visit is not much. There are, however, groups of visitors, tourists who, for educational reasons, either for research or even for reasons of recreation, and because of the extent of this museum, this vast antiquity, this submarine destination cannot satisfy, by a single visit, the need to see these wonderful things, these underwater exhibits. So there are several groups of tourists who would like to visit a visit to Alonissos, which may be weekly, more often the underwater museum of the Alonissos. I would therefore present to you, Minister, a proposal at this point and I would ask you to study it thoroughly, because I think that even to alleviate the impressions it will manage and enable the people who want to do so more regularly, more permanently, to visit the region. I would like to suggest that you issue a weekly ticket so that a group of students, a group of visitors on the island wanting to dive, for example, can pay a weekly ticket of EUR 100 and take three - four dives so that the average dive ticket can come to EUR 20 - 25. Because such groups of tourists cannot be charged daily, apart from the ticket, possibly even with the uniforms they will rent, the equipment they will rent, the transportation and the escort from staff, because their stay will then exceed EUR 300-400 a day, if the hotel is taken into account and all this and so the destination will become very expensive. All those who are fans of diving tourism will definitely go to Alonissos, Minister, because it is unbeatable, it is something amazing for the whole of Europe. Let us give an opportunity to those who, more permanently for various reasons, want to visit Peristera in Alonissos. Let's give them a team ticket. Let's give them a one-week ticket to drop the cost of their daily visits. And so I think we will also increase traffic and remove the possibility of any criticism that the ticket is high. For the one who travels around the world and spends thousands of euros on this hobby, 50 euros is not much. I'd say it's very little. For those who want to visit such a submarine destination for reasons of love, recreation, educational reasons, because of research, professional reasons or anything else, let us give him the opportunity to go to the beautiful Alonso. It is an alternative destination to the island of Alonissos, from the islands that in alternative tourism climb rapidly. Now he's building his tourist product. Consequently, it can be built on healthier foundations than on the rest of our islands that already experience the consequences of overtourism. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the presidential office.]] So let us also take the opportunity to keep the quality that Alonissos has, as well as the Northern Sporades Marine Park and the Underwater Museum have, in order to satisfy the people who really have been very satisfied, impressed by the operation of this first submarine museum in our country. I am sure, Minister, that I am interpreting the feelings of the inhabitants of the island, the municipality, the hoteliers, those who love the marine park of Northern Sporades. In fact, you should know that they have paid for the price and cost of the fishermen and all the inhabitants of the Alonissos to have this protected area, this protected zone and proudly show it throughout Europe. Let's give them the opportunity to win, and the residents of this great value that the Alonissos submarine gives otherwise. I am sure, Minister, that you will study my proposal for a weekly ticket with the seriousness of your moves and your decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, too. We are now continuing with Mr Athanasios Kavathas from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill that comes to Parliament today is not a new piece of legislation. It is about codifying the legislation on the protection of antiquities and cultural heritage, and it has been drafted by an independent committee of approved judges and law. A number of amending provisions were introduced after Law 3028/2002 in the years to come. Basically, this is how an institutional framework was created by means of all-legislative instruments. Encoding serves to bring together all this in a single legislation, to update and restructure provisions, to remove provisions which have either been abolished or have no longer reason for existence and scope, to adapt the relevant provisions for their application to the changes made to the regulatory framework, but also to the scope of the responsibilities of the central government of selfgovernment A' and B' degrees and other legal persons. It is very important that the citizen, but also that the state itself, can refer to a clear, clear and, above all, simplified institutional framework. The codification of the legislation of the Ministry of Culture follows the codification of the legislation of the Ministry of Shipping and is a process to be followed by the other Ministries. Basically, the codification of the legislation on the protection of antiquities and cultural heritage takes over the following areas: The provisions concerning the delimitation of archaeological sites. Procedures for expropriation of property, but also restrictions on the use of property in which archaeological findings exist. The identification and precise identification of the findings and cultural goods that have been illegally removed from our country's territory in order to claim their return and repatriation. The provisions relating to the establishment and operation of museums. The framework governing the granting of a guarantee by the Greek State for compensation in the event of loss of movable monuments and works of art. The criminal treatment of those who commit illegal acts, such as misappropriation or destruction of monuments, illegal investigations and excavations, illegal export from the country of cultural goods and others. The regulatory framework concerning the establishment and functioning of the various collective bodies operating in the Ministry of Culture and Sport, such as the Central Archaeological Council, the Central Council of Modern Monuments and the local councils of monuments. All the provisions relating to archaeological research and monument maintenance work. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult for us to obtain a legal basis for the criticism of the Qualified Opposition in the bill, especially when we all remember that SYRIZA in his rush to vote immediately before the elections on the Criminal Code, in fact has wiped out the strict provisions for the protection of our cultural heritage. In fact, for a few months they didn't apply, opening up a big Ferry. The Government of New Democracy had to come and immediately, in August 2019, restore the strict penalties provided for. Minister, I should like to close by making a reference to the issues of Lefkada concerning the Ministry of Culture. After your three-day visit to my island in August 2020, when you promised all the points of cultural interest and thanks to your presence and guidance, many projects accelerated. Your personal contribution was also to one of the most historic temples of the city, Agios Spyridon, in the central square of Lefkada, which has been closed for over twenty years. The Ministry of Culture has undertaken a great task of restoring the temple with a budget of EUR 1 million and I would like to thank you very much for that, because this historic temple will finally reopen. In addition, I would like to thank you for standing in my proposal to build a new archaeological museum in Lefkada, a modern museum that will house all the archaeological treasures of our island in a single building and make accessible to the general public the findings that currently exist and come from prehistoric times until modern years. As you well know, a specific plot was proposed for the building of the museum at the best point in the city, on the coastal front, which is still to be granted by ETAD to your Ministry. I know from my visits to the EBRD that they have your official request and they are looking positively at the issue. I would, however, like to ask for your intervention in order to speed up the development process and complete the concession so that your ministry will then proceed to the construction study. Lefkada is entitled to a modern archaeological museum and this is a matter of immediate priority. The same applies to the Ancient Theatre of Lefkada where we want the excavations to end and to become a point of attraction for thousands of visitors. Ladies and gentlemen, the systematic imprint of the legislation of the Ministry of Culture in a single, codified legislation aims at organising, transparency and therefore at better functioning of the governmental bodies in relation to culture. Thus, the aim of protecting antiquities and cultural heritage is also achieved, a protection that is an obligation for all of us, because our heritage, our history is an essential part of our national identity. They are the ancient buildings, the finds and inscriptions, the old churches and the monasteries, the towers and the castles, all of this and much more, along with the intangible heritage that is our customs and traditions, are the elements that make Greek culture separate and recognized throughout the world. Here in Greece, in the cradle of world civilization, we must respect, protect and highlight everything that makes our country a station in world history. The bill we are debating today is also a small one in this direction, and I consider it to be a gesture of respect for our culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u147	Thank you for the time too. We continue with Mr Anastasios Prussakis from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law achieves systemicisation of the regulatory framework for the protection of antiquities and cultural heritage, including in this code all the legislations that have been voted on in the past which, however, remain dispersed and dispersed, however, require - and this act rewards - respect for and households. It is a necessary codification through which the existing provisions are brought together and one can easily find them. In this way, legal certainty and unity are achieved for the benefit of the administration and citizens as well as those involved, as the right of all citizens, including the research and education community, is guaranteed for free, direct and lasting access to the cultural reserve of the country, which is promoted and exploited by creating development prospects in the cultural sector. Our domestic cultural burden acquires a holistic, robust and codified piece of legislation, including, among other things, arrangements for the protection of cultural heritage, real estate and mobile monuments and spaces, archaeological research and the protection of monuments, the establishment and operation of museums, access and use of monuments and spaces. The criminal sanctions provided for in criminal collar acts, such as theft, embezzlement, negligence, illegal transfer and trafficking of monuments, as well as the illegal excavation or other archaeological investigation, are also important. It is facilitated by the factual and local authorities, Mrs. Minister, competent prosecution authorities such as the Archaeological Candidacy Department of the Hellenic Police, the judicial authorities - mainly public prosecutors - and also includes the question of the return of cultural goods - treasures illegally removed from the territory of a Member State and regarding the definition of the competent authorities for a return procedure, as well as the conditions. Madam Minister, Greece's archaeological and religious treasure is not only national and domestic, but is also a wealth of the great European family of the Member States. In 2006, as Chief of the Greek Police, I coordinated the case of the theft of the icon of the Panagia of Elona Leonidi, which had been stolen from the local monastery, the well-known protector of the Arkon Tsakon and Laconon. During the investigation period I visited my counterpart in Great Britain, where images from Trikala monasteries were detected in the context of the surveys. The Greek state was then forced to move on to the market of these sacred relics, because there was no such legislative framework that would allow the documentation of the criminally contributible act of theft to be documented. You realize that there are very great difficulties and you know them and have experienced them several times. In the same actions that we have taken, I knew that the competent authorities of the Republic of Cyprus had made progress in other cases at the same time. Therefore, there must be the harmonised concept of protecting the common cultural heritage of Europe because of your sensitivity. I am sure you will raise this issue at the level of your bonds in Europe and I am sure you will find a common place in order to have a coordinated effort, cooperation and solidarity on archaic issues. Culture and presumptions demand respect and legal protection, whether these come from the great Greek culture, from the Roman or from the Anglo-Saxon. They bring as a relic not only value of cultural identity, but at the same time, they are a means of great economic development. Today, our Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is currently on an official visit to Great Britain, where he will, among other things, raise the question of returning the Parthenon Sculptures to his counterpart. It's a historic day. UNESCO last September for the first time in its history adopted a decision on the return of the Parthenon Sculptures. The time has come for Europe to stand worthy of its history, defending its wealth in common. Finally, I would like to refer, Minister, to my constituency, the Prefecture of Evros, which is a vast archaeological site where monuments of three cultures, three great times of antiquity, are founded. The Government and the Ministry of Culture are doing a great job in Evros - and we thank you very much - by taking steps to highlight our neglected monuments. I would remind you that, through parliamentary scrutiny, I raised the question of the restoration and renovation of the Byzantine castle of the Twin wall, for the uniqueness of which great historians have been placed. I would stress that the city of Carcasson has about the same fortress. Twenty-five years ago, through the NSRP, it ensured funding for the construction of the works and the renovation of it, and today it is a global destination and, indeed, a entire county of eighty-three thousand inhabitants are involved in this great treasure of France. I would point out again that this study needs to be launched to assess the cost of this vision and I believe that it is a cost for which we can then activate financial instruments even from the private sector by activating our worthy and national benefactors, who seem to be - I also provide you with an information - available. I believe that if you and the Prime Minister of the country do not do so, and that is why, Minister, I am putting the cubit high and praying with all the inhabitants of Evros to proceed with this great decision and we will owe, as locusts, gratitude to this action. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u149	Thank you. Parliamentary spokesman from Mera25, Mr Gregoriadis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u150	Thank you very much, Mr President, for giving me the floor. Madam Minister, Mrs Mendoni, ladies and gentlemen, I will not go into detail and for a long time about your bill, as we talked about it in committee. Mrs. Bakadima spoke and she explained to you. Mrs Adamopoulou spoke and explained our objections, our doubts, our concerns. I will stand on two points, Minister, and since we're here, you can answer me when your turn comes in a little while. If I understood correctly, your claim with regard to Article 71 is that this is deleted, because the jurisdiction of a three-member appeal court is provided for in Article 111 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and therefore overlaps it. Do I understand correctly? Is that your claim? Good! I therefore reply to you, Madam Minister, that the provision of Article 111 provides for the jurisdiction of the three-member appeal court for the felonies of Law 3028/2002 on the protection of our antiquities and cultural heritage, except that - and this, Minister, this is a very important piece of warning - only that, I repeat, the code to be ratified today by Law 3028/2002 is going for a walk. Madam Minister, it is abolished by what we are voting on today. So, in order to be clear about you, for us and for the Greek people - which, above all, we are interested - since Tuesday, 15 November, the three-member court of appeal will no longer have the power to judge felons of Law 3028, but will have the sole jurisdiction. In order to maintain, Madam Minister, the three-member court of appeal should include Article 71 as currently in force in our Code of Antiquities. Secondly, it remains for us, Minister, the question why you did not mention this claim in the explanatory memorandum to the bill. If you'd known since then, why is there no such claim and what's the claim? I repeat him, so everyone can understand him. That, in other words, Article 71 is allegedly deleted, because the competence is provided for in Article 111 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. If that were the case and you say that it is even so now, why not say it in the explanatory statement? You're not saying that. Secondly, in the case of the shipowner Laskaridis, this homogeneous case, will justice be dealt with? If the legislative power, we here, leave it, will take justice. Because look at what's going on. You said, Minister, here and in the committee, that you yourself were - as proof that you have no intention of covering the shipowner, Mr Laskaridis, I repeat - through your Secretary-General, who gave the mandate to the National Antiquities Inspectorate to report back to the prosecutor. On the other hand, Minister, we learn that the Merchant Antiquities Committee was completely moving on its own, i.e. moving on its own. Let me have the designation, although it is not the case. You'll tell me it's your word against what we're learning. And I'll answer you. If it is as you say, and it is not what we say, should it not appear to an observer who is extremely curious who does not mention that fact, that is, that you gave the orders to the National Antiquities Ombudsman to report to the prosecutor? Doesn't it seem strange to you that it's not mentioned anywhere in the press releases at the time? Your honor and your pleasure, I would say, my Minister, that you have given the order! How come you didn't mention it in a press release? Are you so far away now? I wish you were, but the way to legislate "Myriakos Mitsotakis S.A." does not seem to be anywhere above anything. I stop talking, Mr President, about the codes. I'm going through the news stuff. I remind everyone who hears me that I am a parliamentary representative, so I represent Mera25 as a whole and the President of our parliamentary group our Secretary, Yiannis Varoufakis, and therefore we are again called upon to address issues of topicality. Of course, it is no longer a matter of topicality that we lose seventy, eighty and very afraid - I wish to disprove - a few hundred people a day. It's not a matter of time, the pandemic. It's a pandemic thing. Look, you have it as a government - I am not talking about you personally, I am looking at you because you are in front of me, my dear colleague - orchestrate and manage things so wonderfully that today almost two consecutive years from the beginning of the pandemic we have been as a country in the worst and most fatal one - let me say - a point that we have ever met. In any government that handles two years such a pandemic, it would be worth congratulating them, of course, on the sarcastic congratulations. I have heard the government's representative, Mr. Economou, with my own ears in the past few days, answering the opposition, but above all the criticism of SYRIZA, who said that we will not do you a favor, from now on we will answer numbers. And he made the terrible revelation of the terrible number: from five hundred and fifty-seven that were the ICU before they took over, now are a thousand two hundred seventy-seven. It is easy, although in our view inaccurate, to answer this question, as all the information from all health professionals and from all doctors' associations say that there are today not a thousand two hundred seventeen ICUs in our country, but only a few more than a thousand, less than a thousand. It's about two hundred less than you claim. To reach this magical number, this magical image needs to be systematically baptized for the long time ICU, ex-surgeries, formerly unused storage areas. And what are you doing to them? You sanitate them, put some of the machinery or all the machinery and make them ICU. No, no, no, no, It's not like that. It's another thing the ITHs. And the most important thing in an ICU is the seven or nine - I don't remember exactly the number - highly qualified specialities that manage it. You're not saying anything about them. This is also what Mr Economou has not answered us and is making it a garrison in the commonly called - and you are doing it two years now - if, for two consecutive years and sixteen thousand dead people, you have hired even a single sample of doctors permanently in our national health system. Do you have a Minister, since you represent the government? You don't have one. Mr Petsas replied last week to me: "We have hired with one-year or two-year contracts of about eleven thousand, and in due course when we are judging, at the right time we will decide how many and whom we will perpetuate." The Greek people laugh at this. I answer you directly. If you do not permanently now under the general outcry of the beast and their dead seventy and eighty every day, slowly do not save to perpetuate when all this has passed and will be past. You have such a frustration to privatize and well save our national health system that you don't care that your voters even die. You're incomprehensible. So you didn't answer us. You should know that the people in people who adopt these behaviors are turning their backs sooner or later, Minister. I am going to another point: the murder of a Greek immigrant in Germany, to the terriblely civilised and dreadful democratic Germany. What's weird? Was our fellowman murdered, our fellow Minister, by the authorities of Germany, by the police, by a young child and the reactions of your government, us, - unfortunately, are they also us - found to be diligently anaemic, inadequacy to say them? Look, we easily understand your internal contradictions, as you are a huge multi-collectional party that must satisfy and the fascist audience must satisfy the centre, and the slightly more progressive one. We understand that. However, the German police at the same time - and this is something that keeps you from having so much anaemic reactions - have shown, Mr President, the conduct of the standing behaviour shown in these cases by our Greek police. It is similar to the Greek militarized and authoritarian security forces that have arrived at the police in your day. We don't have any police. We have a DIA team, we have special guards, we have MATs, ACEs, MAK, MUK, MUK, MUK, what you can imagine from an arctic book, but we don't normally have the police. We have militant forces, Minister. After all, the Germans - and I am not talking about the German people, of course, but about the oligarchy of Germany and, of course, about the political staff who are perpetuating the entire European Union as shown in the five memoranda before - are your friends, your very friends. Or rather they're not your friends, they're your bosses. That's the Germans. And how can you miscarriage your bosses by starting diplomatic actions because they killed a fellow man who also happens to be an immigrant? Where does that bring? Of course, dear, how we treat immigrants for so many years. What the hell are you going to tell Germany that you killed my immigrant when you did it? Simple as that! And we're going through something that's family, not directly but indirectly, and with your ministry, dear Minister, in foreign film productions. In September 2018, SYRIZA increased the subsidy rate to 35% by Law 4563. And you didn't get enough of this, you just came to the stuff in July 2020 with L.4704/2020 up to 40%. This 40% is the threshold - to understand - of the eligible costs for the fiction films. So the threshold that you have legislated is to get back to anyone who comes to Greece and turns a film - as I will tell you immediately after what has happened to the 'Insumables' - 100 thousand euros. That's the bottom, everybody understands. Because the Greek cash rebate with your legislation does not have the slightest plaque in returning money to these foreign productions. Greater investment in eligible costs is equal to a direct higher return than your programme. Furthermore, it can also serve as a guarantee for producers to borrow them - I say it, and I laugh instead of crying! - through bankrupt banks for 12 years, which we - the Greek people who have been taking home for 12 years - have recapitalisationed with EUR 70 billion. Look at all this is scandalous, but I wouldn't be mad at me and I wouldn't be so red if it didn't happen: a few days ago in the "Insumables 4" that go back to Thessaloniki, it turned out that the only consumables were the Greek "Children" workers who worked in this production. Do you know why? They were injured very seriously, Mrs. Mendoni, my Minister, one is rejoicing. I wish he could make it. Now listen to your achievement. These productions - which are telling them that the least I will come back to you is 100,000, but if you manage to bring more, I will turn you back a million and two million back - which has been done enough and we know it, they never hire any Greeks for any really serious role. They don't hire a director, director, photo director, speaker, booman. They don't hire anyone. They only hire people of production, champagne - as I say to them - to fight, to run into a working middle ages. Do you know how I know he's a middle-aged worker? One man is struggling, three more were injured, and he didn't stop shooting Ms. Mendoni for one minute. We have a complaint from the GOD. You have also allowed them by your law not to work Greek as I said all these specialties because it is very expensive to come from America, they are Bulgarians, Romanians, Yugoslavs. What can we tell you? Warm congratulations you give millions to turn the 'Insumables'? Are only Greeks who work there and at the same time do you work with Romanians and Bulgarian fellow people? That's good. We internationalists are Socialists - Marxist I am in particular - and we like that very much. But I don't think you're gonna do that for that. I shall finish soon, Mr President. We have tabled an amendment today. And, by the way, the workers of the 'e-FOD' whose whole society was on their side - many workers were pleased with their first victory, Mr President - continue their struggle because they understood that they deserve better working conditions and that only by collective action, and unprecedented collective action, I would say, will they win these conditions. So today, Minister, they are moving again. They're going to the Ministry. Do you know why? They demand to intervene in violations of labour law, in the uncontrolled operation of the platform, which causes insecurity, stress and rush. Do you know what haste is for duck distributors? Hazard synonym, synonym of their possible death. So hurry that we've seen it can be deadly. After all, we know that this is even under normal conditions for a profession which is exposed to scary dangers, weather and pollution, a profession of heavy and unhealthy nature, a profession, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Co-Population, which must at last be recognized as such, heavy and unhealthy. I get it from eighteen years old to be an actor and get it worthwhile, because our work is heavy and unhealthy. However, I cannot be baked that I am worthy of heavy and unhealthy, the actor, and he is not the man who is in the minus twenty and the plus forty, in the middle of the city all day. We do not know how you will respond and we do not know how the Minister responsible will respond to their other requests. We know, however, that those who are here today and you, Minister dear, can be fair and democratic and do not pretend that we are not listening to the demand that more and more distributors are buzzing, which in the end - you know - will win. Do you know why they'll win it? Because it is self-evident and simply fair and it is also urgent. Let us surprise them once more and let the House legislate once again. It's a page and I'm leaving right away, Mr. President. It is a scandal, in active judges, seconded to “Metsotakis S.A.”. In fact, Mr President, you did not hear the mistakes, in active judicial officers, with an incompatibility - let me express the expression - an amendment to the 'Metsotakis S.A.'. - They're coming in and they're serving the government from now on. Where will they serve? Do you know where they will serve? The Ministry of Presidency and the Ministry of Justice. Congratulations. Of course, we all know in this Chamber that the most fundamental independence of Greek justice has been completely destroyed for years. However, what this amendment has adopted, I do not even know honestly whether it has a precedent in the global times of the democracies of this earth. In the junta I know, in the dictatorships, I know, it has, in all of this. Just last week, in disagreement with Mr Georgiadis on the incident of the eighteen-year-old Roma murder in Perama, who reminded him was shot in the back with thirty-eight bullets from the DIA group, who had already disobeyed an order from the centre, in which they had to obey to stop the pursuit, which they did not even know, as it was revealed, that they had committed illegal acts. I then argued, saying that it is unacceptable for a Minister to go out and say before the interrogation "congratulations to the Greek policemen who did their duty". I said he prejudges Greek justice. Immediately, Mr. Georgiadis became angry and replied that I, too, do the same as a parliamentary representative and that, speaking of murder, I prejudge Greek justice. I replied to him - and I will close immediately, Mr President - that we are certainly not the same. You know, Mrs. Mendoni, why aren't I and your Minister or you and I? Because he and your Government appoint the President of the Ice Bay and the Council of State, as you appoint all supreme judges. So when each Minister of Georgiadis makes such a statement, every interrogator and prosecutor who have taken over this case if they dare disagree with him, they know that they farewell to Alexandria, the supreme office of Greek justice for ever. Therefore, while I cannot in the slightest sense influence, Mr President, and pre-paid the judgments of justice, on the contrary, your every Minister, Minister, can absolutely. If we think that this completely absurd and deeply unconstitutional situation now does not allow justice to do its job, imagine how important a step forward in the disappearance of the last group of independence that it has left is - I repeat - inconsistent with the global data that you have dared to take last week from our Parliament. Legislation in anti-linguistics, anti-grassroots, but you are now mainly legislating anti-humans. At the same time, with such tricks you deprive your human victims of the only way out they have to go to justice to save them from your fingernails. So build an army of seconded judges, so that the game is set up beforehand, all set up in your own measures absolutely. We, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, will always be on the other side, along with your victims and embrace them, with enormous longing at the time and at the moment when you will be swallowed with pummelling and tiring big at the bottom of the bottom of the human history. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u151	We are now continuing with Mr Marcus from SYRIZA, then Mr Kotsos from New Democracy, Mrs Adamou, who is with webex and the process with the Minister is completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u152	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Markou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It is interesting today's process, ladies and gentlemen, because we have a given, which I am sure at least on the part of the government, is when we will end up leaving. Because the parliamentary procedure has already been exonerated since its beginning. It's okay. We will testify, record, and you know, sometime history comes with sarcasm and answers. One and a half days we had to study the code tabled by the Minister. Indeed, someone - I would say with enthusiasm - that a member of the Couple said'read it'. So arrogant. The Minister uses the argument that no new provisions are contained, but that there are scorpions found in many legislative texts. It has also been said in committee and here. The procedure for voting the codes does not allow for changes, for amending the provisions or for consulting them. It is, though, isn't it? This is inaccurate both for legal and practical reasons. The legal reasons are set out in the Law of 2019, your Law, the Final State, in Article 66, in which the Central Coding Committee is set up, providing that this Committee may, in order to assist its work, cooperate with Parliament. Tell me, how can you imagine this cooperation with the House? I cannot imagine anyone but the debate in committees, but that committee should come to the House, to the Committee on Morphic Affairs, to exchange cases. Is there another way? To put in public consultation, to request any information from the public sector services. You broke that, too. This means that you yourself had foreseen the possibility of giving public consultation a proposal for codification. The institution of consultation of a draft law is not, in itself, excluded from the fact that the provisions contained in it are the collection in a single text of diffuse provisions which are contained in legislation. Furthermore, with this essentially draft law, we do not have a simple vote on judicial or administrative codes drawn up by committees, nor a codification of provisions which exist by simple classification or reintroduction of all the well-established laws, as provided for in the Constitution, clearly. This is where Article 67 of your law on the final state must be applied, because we have also abolished and amended existing provisions and reformed law. This article analyses the codification process and provides: ‘The draft codes containing provisions of formal law shall be validated except for the part where the existing provisions are repealed or amended in the context of the reform of the law and the ordinary procedure must be followed’. Even yourself do not think that you should follow him consistently. Are provisions repealed? Are provisions amended? Is current law reformed? It is clear that the answer is 'yes'. So what further proof do we need to say that you are trying to deceive the parliamentary procedure, Minister? Our rapporteur in committee said: "Pressing the code quickly we noticed that provisions of the archaeological law are being deleted, whereas in the table in the explanatory memorandum we have detailed changes to remove provisions". Furthermore, the legislation was not given. I wanted to really know in your internal functions what role it may play to repeat an obvious truth again from all sides of this Chamber and you deaf. You did not hear the general addresses of the Ministry which we really had a real role to play. It's an obvious process that leads to obvious mistakes. Already the seriousness that your legislature ought to have is crumbled and this framework appears to appear as codification. You say, Minister, in the committee's minutes: "The working party set up at the Ministry of Culture was by members of the Council of State under the chairmanship of the Honorary Vice-President of Nicholas Rozou, who was the chairman of the Legislative Committee of Law 3028/2002 in the period 2001-2002." You declare pride. I therefore attach to you here, and I give it to the Minutes, the general presentation made by Mr Rozos at a conference a year later on the subject of 'Culture and Law'. It refers to the way, duration and methodology chosen to draft this law. Completely contrary to your case-law, your political perception. He had a procedure that was being prepared and voted in plenary for six years after all the views of all the institutions were heard and tabled, archaeological schools, archaeologists, OTA, TEU, Church. With regard to the actors of the Opposition, of which the Minister forgot to ask for an opinion, when he took over in 1996 Mr Rozos worked on a draft that they had drawn up and had close cooperation. Unknown concepts for you. We are now coming to Articles 15, 15a, etc., 16 and 17. They include arrangements that will cause many problems. The provision for management bodies, the provision for the management of archaeological archaeological sites and non-public bodies is contrary to the provisions of the amended from May 2019, Article 7 of the Law 3028. I read from the explanatory statement of the amendment that the SYRIZA Government has tabled and is clear. This is the law of the State, Minister: "For the infrastructures of cultural heritage the use of these properties", i.e. cultural goods, etc., "is owned by the Ministry as a body to fulfil their objectives. They are out of every transaction and their administration and management is exercised by the public.’ That is what the amendment says. We have two different worlds. It's obvious you'll tell me. I know. And cynicism, you think yours is the best. We now come to the official archaeological sites. She's been through, she's been over, she's been through it. There were visiting archaeological sites and archaeological sites. Now legislate not to visit. That's not coding. It is a primary legacy and it is an undemocratic diversion, as our rapporteur has said. At the last minute you withdrew with the entry of our session the approach to Article 66 which clearly led us to reasonable suspicions that this is a procession and not a failure and a mistake. I'm ending with Article 71. He said it very well, too, and Claus Gregoriadis said it very well. The felonies in Article 111 of the criminal procedure are related to Law 3028 and are tried by the Tripartite Appeals Tribunal. How many other times do we have to tell you that now, with the deletion of No 3028/2002, these felonies will not be tried by the tripartite appeals for crimes. You said so, you said it again, and while rationality and obviousness sound in your ears, assuming you missed it, you ignore it. That's a scam. We're talking literally about a legal mess. In conclusion, Minister, you must answer. Firstly, why have the current provisions of Article 49 of 2005 not been included in the code which provide that self-propelled diving device is prohibited from moving, photographing objects of archaeological or other value on the bottom and if they find anything to be obliged to inform the port authorities immediately? Secondly, I have a question that I am glad to hear you deny. Is there a member of the working group, which you yourself designated for codification, controlled disciplinary and criminal offences under Law 3028/2002? You have to answer and - to use your expression - whether you like it or not you like it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u153	We continue with Mr. Georgios Kotsos from New Democracy. Mrs Adamou will follow through webex. The procedure will be completed with the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u154	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin by thanking the Minister warmly for her prompt response to the request to finance the emergence of the blurred tomb of the Farmer - Xinouri of the Cardits Prefecture. Your reaction was really immediate. I would like to inform you that the project is under way. And so an important archaeological monument of Carditsa preservatives but also emerges. I hope and hope that there will be another two very important contributions that are being prepared as studies, and I hope that they will receive immediate funding for my country, the Municipality of Mozambique. They are related to the great hero of the Greek Revolution George Karaiskakis. I am referring to the digital museum of Georgios Karaiskakis, but also to the manifestation of the cave born by this hero. Soon I am sure that we will be able in cooperation with the Municipality of Mousakio to submit the relevant studies and to have the appropriate funding. If nothing else shows your interest and also your effectiveness. Here you will allow me to warmly thank the archaeological service of Karditsa Prefecture and Mrs Baiopoulou, the unadulterated workers to demonstrate the maintenance and promotion of our archaeological monuments. Ms. Baiopoulou and her associates are doing an excellent job and try to highlight monuments such as the temple of Apollo, the archaeological sites of Gomphs, Argithea, Myrin, Sicily, Kierio, Kalitheros, Ithomi, the Castle of Fanari, an excellent Byzantine monument. Of course, our religious monuments must not be forgotten in cooperation with our most respected Metropolitan, Mr Timothy. Dear colleagues and colleagues, our past is the land, the ground, the basis on which we stand as a nation, as a people, but also as faces and make and create. Without that ground, without that basis, that is without knowing our past, we certainly lose our identity, we cannot support the present and above all we cannot create our future. So we must respect this cultural heritage, protect it in every way and, of course, make proper use of it. The protection of our monuments, archaeological sites and our historical sites is our basic debt, our sovereign concern for our government and this is demonstrated by today's bill. The legislative framework currently in force, namely Law 3028/2002, is true, it was an extremely full and innovative law for its time. It is true, however, that over the years it has been subject to several legislative amendments, so that the existing legislative framework is scattered and there are too many legislations on this matter. So do you not all appreciate, ladies and gentlemen, that it is necessary to systemise and codify this code, this law? How will we protect our cultural heritage effectively if we do not facilitate access to it by the lawmaker concerned? We saw, of course, at the meeting of the Standing Committee on Formats Affairs, the Qualified Opposition, leaving by saying that it did not have the time to study the relevant draft law. In fact, you claimed that you did not have the time to study it in depth. At the same time, it was also suggested that the introduction of the bill to be discussed in committee and now also in plenary. Dolo, colleagues? I think it is a very heavy expression and it is wrong for those who used it, but also for the bill itself. The draft law we are debating today lays the foundations for the protection of our cultural heritage constructively, through the codification and reform of the regulatory framework for the protection of antiquities, and thus to combat pluralism, to systematic and clarify scattered provisions of the law. In other words, it improves public administration on the substance by simplifying and making information more accessible to all citizens, while strengthening the credibility of the state towards society and our citizens. We maximise the efficiency and effectiveness of policies implemented in the field of the protection of antiquities and cultural heritage. We are strengthening credibility in justice by a legal text which is recast in a more intelligible, more understandable and more accessible language, while also removing provisions that have become inactive in scope. Dear colleagues and colleagues, each people has a historic heritage, which must be constantly highlighting and protecting. We cannot, therefore, leave this legacy in the past, but draw it in the future and be the key to future generations. With the proper use of our culture in the present, the benefits of this are transformed as far as possible into future generations. It is therefore unnecessarily binding to us today to lay the foundations by creating the institutional framework necessary to protect and promote our cultural heritage, which is a treasure of invaluable value, which we inherited from the ancestors and we must deliver to future generations. And that's what our Minister is trying to do, that's what the Ministry of Culture is trying to do, that's what our government does. I invite all of you to vote in favour of the bill and to be sure that you offer good services to culture, but also to the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u155	Mrs Adamou, an Independent MEP, now has the floor. Before I give her the floor, however, I would like to ask whether there is one of the rapporteurs who wants to give a second answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u156	I, Mr President, would like a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u157	Okay, after Mrs. Adamou, you'll take the floor. Here, Mrs Adamou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u158	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating in plenary the ratification of the code of legislation on the protection of antiquities and, in general, of cultural heritage, a code which has been kept in the Ministry's drawer for seven months - and was ready - and which was notified to the members of the committee only one and a half days before the debate. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, which took place on 11 November last week, that is, last week, the overall reaction of the Com mission to the process of tabling and discussing this code was the result. In my view this reaction was absolutely justified, because we received the bill on 9 November at 21.00 p.m. and were invited to participate in the Committee on Educational Affairs a day and a half later at 13.00 p.m. As you can see, it was impossible in one and a half days to study in real and in-depth terms the codification of laws relating to the protection of antiquities, to look and point out whatever uncertainties there are, since even the great staff of the parties, as they have said, have not been able to study this codification, much more so that I am going and striving as an Independent MEP to represent my fellow citizens. I fully understand Mrs Mendoni's position, but only in part, because I know that the procedure for voting on the codes is specific. But the committee members must be given time to study and proceed with their findings, especially when the Ministry is ready for codification from March last year, but it preferred for its own reasons not to notify us in time. For this reason, I would therefore ask you for reasons of fairness and the good use of democracy to be informed in time of the bills and sanctions that are to be discussed so that we are not in the process. By entering into the contents of the ratification, namely the protection of antiquities and of our cultural heritage in general, I have to say that the cultural heritage, ladies and gentlemen, is of great value to a people such as the Greek, who have such a long history behind it. That is why the value of the term 'cultural heritage' is also apparent from the fact that we often have here in Greece under the term 'cultural good'. The content of the present ratification also confirms the need for a thorough examination of the draft law submitted by the Ministry of Culture. And here begins a number of reasonable questions and questions as to his provisions. As the Association of Greek Archaeologists rightly points out in a letter sent to you, Mrs. Mendoni, and to all of us, to the members of the committee, issues are raised regarding the selection of the articles included in the codification. In the light of Article 66 relating to the illegal intervention or the execution of a project, the reference ‘in illegal works or interventions in maritime monuments and historical sites’ was disappeared. In particular, in the first subparagraph, the reference to Articles 15 and 17 had been excluded without any justification in your explanatory statement. But you said at the beginning of the plenary - and you said so - Mrs Mendoni that you would fix this. He's staying to see it. At the same time, the provisions of Article 11 of Law 3409/2005, as well as general prohibitions/obligations which remain in force, are not incorporated into the codification. It should be noted that Law 3409 has been amended by Law 4688, but these provisions, which expressly refer to the auto-dynamics with an autonomous diving device, "no lifting, moving, photographing objects of archaeological or other value found on the bottom is prohibited". And paragraph 7 states that ‘each self-propelled person shall be required to inform immediately and by all appropriate means the competent port authority if he has identified objects of archaeological or police interest in a shipwreck’. There is no specific reason why these provisions were not considered to be important from the outset, to be included in codification even though they are in force and are directly related to the protection of vast archaeological sites and monuments. I expect to see the decisive moves, Mrs Mendoni, for which you have assured us at the beginning of this part-session. Now with regard to the export of antiquities of museum collections for fifty years, the provision for exporting museum collections, Greek antiquities, abroad for fifty years voted by Law 4761/2020, which have expressed their vertical opposition to unions, institutions, citizens and the Hellenic Association of Archaeologists, are registered in Article 45(13) of the code under discussion. In this provision, according to the Minister of Culture, public museums would be excluded during the debate of the relevant law in the House. However, the proposed paragraph excludes only the museums referred to in Article 45(2). If this is the case, the Minister's intention to exclude public museums from exporting antiquities for fifty years should be added to this point to exclude museums referred to in paragraph 2 and paragraph 3. We are also not detecting an entire article, the current article 71 of Law 3028/2002 without any justification again in the explanatory statement, which it should have recorded, but for some reason it was not recorded. So, with the concrete deletion of the criminal provision, we are losing this article, which provides for the extremely important responsibilities and procedure for felonies associated with the destruction of antiquities. According to this, felonies such as theft of monuments, the misappropriation, the destruction of monuments, the acceptance and disposal of monuments which are the products of crime, illegal intervention, the execution of a work in a monument, the illegal export of cultural goods and the excavation, are subject to the three-member court of appeal. The critical nature of this article is that it tackles the illegality of traffickers and archipelagos. As we can see, however, it is lacking in this codification of legislation. As we can justify this, although this article, as Mrs Méndou said, has been included in the new Code of Criminal Procedure, it remains a fact that it is not missing, that is, it has not been included in the new codification on the protection of antiquities. So the question arises as to whether the current codification of antiquities legislation helps with its purpose, because we have seen the intention and actions of this Ministry of the Non-Protection of Antiquities at the “Venizelos” stop on the metro of Thessaloniki, whose secondment you suggested. In conclusion, Mr President, I should like to point out that the aim of a successful code of legislation in this House is, among other things, to improve public administration, enabling the institutions and administrative bodies and citizens to have a direct and secure knowledge of the overall legislation on proper use of it. We are therefore waiting for Mrs Mendoni's replies to the reasonable questions and remarks raised in this plenary today, so that we can see whether this code protects or actually leaves our cultural heritage unprotected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u159	Thank you. I asked a moment ago which of the rapporteurs would like to give a second answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, a little statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u161	You're welcome. A small statement from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u162	I have nothing to say in particular or to add more to what we have already said about the bill, a bill which is not a primary legislation. It's the encoding. In any case, we expect the Minister's final speech to dissolve any doubts or doubts about the contested Articles 66 and 71, which we insist, in our view, should also be explicitly included and formulated in this consolidated draft law. I have taken the floor, Mr President, and I thank you for that, in order to state our agreement with the amendment tabled by Mera25 in the relevant bill in relation to workers in food and drink distribution companies, the deliberations, as has been very well reflected in this Greek word. We would therefore like to state our agreement with this amendment on the subject of subjecting these workers to heavy and unhealthy health, which is perfectly normal since they are already part, an article in a previous, recent motion for a law by our party, according to which we proposed - it was, of course, rejected by the government majority - that these workers should be regarded as workers of dependent employment and not free partners, freelancers. Of course, they have achieved this in practice with their struggle, subject to heavy and unhealthy health or their employer to have full and exclusive legal responsibility, to have full responsibility for the provision of all those dependent on their work, such as the machines and everything they need, to work for a five-day, seven-day, heavy and unhealthy job, as we have said, with the relevant fines for businesses, which do not agree and, of course, with the abolition of Article 69 of the well-known and as the Hatzidakis Act, which was passed last summer. Today is a special day because an important struggle for the small professionals of the focus was unfolded. They were not reached for many months with the closures, with the debts, now being defined by the government and as part of the vaccination control mechanism, with an obvious aim and purpose for the government to charge them any transmission of the virus, while the virus is partying in public transport and in large workplaces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u163	Mrs Readingstopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. The debate here in plenary has shown that it is not possible to legislate in such a way, especially when it comes to a code on cultural heritage. There was no time. This debate should have been held in committee, in the presence of the group, in the working groups to ask questions, comments, etc. Secondly, if there were any problems, misunderstandings, omissions, codification errors, which I think I was thoroughly referring - and not only to myself, but also to other colleagues - we would have prevented many things from being solved, they would also have been taken into account by the Central Committee for Coding if the Ministry's Directorates General, the responsible Greek Archaeologists' Association, which has very serious objections, were to be able to make real progress in the protection of cultural heritage. Answers so far, we haven't got any. I will insist on two or three points. In addition to the omissions or the wrong codifications, the errors of codification, which I have mentioned quite I think - and there are others I have not mentioned - I would like the Minister to say how they will be resolved once the code is passed. Secondly, it is very important that Article 66, particularly where criminal offences are concerned about the ancient antiquities. We will insist very much on the wording, including Articles 15, 15a and 15b and then Articles 16 and 17a and then. And there remains a major issue, the deletion of Article 71. It is not possible in any way to agree, here and in New Democracy Members, to such a deportation which is prohibited in all ways, even by the law of the state of service. I will also call on the President of the House, Mr Tasoula, who has given us through Mr Digalakis, that we have no amendment, that we have no deportation, that we have no such change that we have in Article 15, I will call for if he really guarantees that there is no such deportation. I conclude by saying that SYRIZA, our parliamentary representative has said so, of course, we will vote for the amendment tabled by Mera25. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u165	Thank you. Mr Baraliakos, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor now, and the Minister immediately thereafter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are voting for the code for the protection of antiquities and, in general, our cultural heritage. This is a set of legislation that is not new, but it is already adopted laws of the state. And we will say again that codification is being dealt with by the Central Committee for Coding, which is made up of lawyers and judges with wide acceptance and recognition of their value in the field they are called upon to serve. The aim is to make the regulatory framework familiar and friendly for everyone and everyone to look at it even if it is not an experienced legal person. We will simplify it and condens it by householding it in order to improve public administration and maximize its usefulness and efficiency. As regards Article 71, as the Minister has already said, there is no confusion or ambiguity. For Article 66, which was raised by the Opposition on several occasions, I would remind you that a legislative improvement has been tabled again by the Central Coding Committee. I would like to make it clear to the House that what is being voted today is not the result of our personal inspiration or wishing expression but the subject of study and treatment by experts. In fact, as I said before, on already adopted laws, which are not altered in their essence but only recast in an easy form. I am very sorry that you have come here today, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, in a spirit of conflict and without any consensus and sympathy for the substance of protecting our culture. I am pleased that some people here, to some extent, have shown the necessary spirit of wisdom that the government does not need, but this spirit needs our country to move forward at last. Winston Churchill said: "You will never reach your destination if you stop and throw stones on every bark dog." So how can we go forward as a whole if there is actually no real problem for us to pursue an unsurpassed brake. I would therefore ask that we show the necessary maturity and stand to the level laid down by the circumstances, the place, our position and today's work to protect our cultural heritage. Greece is changing, we are moving forward, we are raising our country higher, we are creating the necessary framework to strengthen the proper functioning and application of the rules for the protection of our culture, this culture of international radiation that belongs to all of us as citizens of Greece and the world. We are standing here today in the House recognising the position and responsibility which our position here today bears today. Our thoughts are close to the Prime Minister who has prioritised the preservation of our cultural heritage and the return of the Parthenon sculptures to their home. We are voting for this code in order to safeguard what we have inherited from our ancestors, and so do you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u167	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u168	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I come to the essence of the code, I will respond to some of the issues, not all that have been raised, regardless of the code, by the Members. I am surprised to hear that the Ministry of Culture of this Government has been accused of having revenue from the sales and refreshments of the Agency for the Management and Development of Cultural Resources, i.e. the former TPA, and even being blamed in a mere manner - I would say - the Prime Minister who referred to the oil from the olives of Olympia. Either we don't read or we don't understand. The sales were licensed in a SYRIZA government and they've been filled in the last two years. The refreshments after at least two barren competitions were closed on SYRIZA and created not only a loss of revenue, but were exhibiting the services provided by the Ministry of Culture and the TDI to the thousands of visitors, Greeks and foreigners, these archaeological sites and museums. And since we like to answer numbers, I will tell you the numbers that are available to anyone who wants, that this year with much less visitors than in 2019, which was the tourist record, from the sales and refreshments, we have a lot more revenue than in 2019. Because the refreshments are leased and the sales are filled. As for the way in which the Prime Minister commented on the oil from Olympia, I must tell you that when this oil comes from the olives of Alteau, Olympia, it is not a nutritional and gastronomical product but it is a cultural good. In a special bottling, the organization's sales are sold and purchased and it's advertising for Olympia and the Olympic Games itself. If he's such a short-eyed man and he doesn't understand that, of course, he's acting like he's acting. I heard again about the fire in the Mycenas. The Mycenes were obviously not destroyed. The archaeological site of the Mycenaeans worked the next day because there was no disaster. I heard again about Olympia's fires and the fires in Tatoi. Olympia's fire did not reach the archaeological site for a very simple reason, because fire protection systems operate perfectly and functioned perfectly in the archaeological site and in Tatoi, because nothing was lost at all that was a presumption of history and culture. So I hear it in every debate in this House and I start to wonder if those who say it do not feel very uncomfortable why there were no disasters? Let us now see the subject that the SYRIZA rapporteur has obviously heard about the objects confiscated in the Poppa house and the ministry has not been insulted. Let's go over there and see the history. The objects at the house of Christos Papapas on the 1-10-2013, following the mandate of the then General Secretary, mediated by the competent EGI of Byzantine Antiquities, were recorded and handed over to the police and prosecutors of Ioannina. The case-file formed was never notified to the Directorate for Documentation and Protection of Cultural Goods in order to be able to know the development of the case and the offences for which the Pope was ultimately accused. Following the implementation of the new Criminal Code in June 2019 and within the time limit set, the Directorate responsible for the Protection of Cultural Goods in close cooperation with the Legal Council of the State proceeded to search for criminal cases in which he was required to file an indictment and did the proper thing. It goes without saying that the case in question, for which there was no further information from the police or public prosecutors, was not possible for the agency to know, not the political leadership. These are service issues. In other words, you are complaining about the service of the Ministry of Culture, because you did not know what the police and prosecutors did not inform it about the progress of the investigation procedure and the indictment, so that the service could file an appeal. Look, using these kinds of fireworks, even unaware of you, because you obviously do not know the evolution of the cases, they are at least unfortunate and inconsistent with the parliamentary procedure. We also heard that it was arbitrarily laid down, by a joint ministerial decision, the price of ticket to the underwater archaeological site in Peristera. That's not happening. Obviously the service was recommended, apparently the board of directors of the Agency for the Management and Development of Cultural Resources submitted its own recommendation and apparently delivered an opinion from the Central Archaeological Board on the amount of the fee. In other words, the law was completely followed and under no circumstances was arbitrary. Now let's go see some details, since there's been a long discussion about this. The period of two-year pilot operation of this airfield archaeological site, i.e. in the summer of 2020 and 2021, because after the summer season the ticket was set – for the period of its five-month operation, from June to September of those two years, according to data available from the Hellenic Transportation, six hundred visitors were visited in total, two hundred six in 2020 and three hundred in 2021 and three hundred in 2021 and were carried out by diving service providers operating in Alonisssos and Skopelos, sixty-six and eighty dives respectively. For example, I would like to inform you of the real costs of the operation of a single archaeological site, that of Peristera, which is currently partly borne by the Ministry of Culture, because even this year there is support for Community resources. But then, once the current programme is completed, it will be called upon to do so in full. Therefore, the evidence available to us for the five-month operation of this site is required for this number of visitors - because if we go to an increase in numbers, it will be much more necessary - the presence of at least three-dimensional gradients of the Hellenic Antiquities, assisted by the needs and permanent diving staff of the taxi which should have on-site a ship to move from the point of departure to the shipyard, to check the state of the space, and a vehicle for the supply and transport of materials and fuels. These are the elementary ones. All this - so that I do not take much time - is analysed at a cost for a period of five months, a minimum of EUR 65 000. Even if we went to see, by ticket of EUR 50, the six hundred dives, we would have only 19% for 2020 and 28% for 2021 of the annual operating costs of this archaeological site. So things are not as simple as you want to present them. We are now going to specific comparative data. Baya of Naples. Tours start from 50 euros and the depth is just two meters. In diving parks without ancient times, coastal diving begins to reach 300 euros in depth. Turkey - our parliamentary representative said so - starts at EUR 50 and comes to EUR 312. In diving parks without ancient times, we have tickets to the Sporades area, Alonissos and Sporades in general, for simple diving on the coast, the short dive, that is, 70 euros and a 80 euro boat. So this ticket is not too expensive, as you go to present it. I have heard the proposal from our parliamentary representative. What I have to say is obviously the zero and half of a ticket on a case-by-case basis applies to educational activities. These apply in general to single and terrestrial archaeological sites. It doesn't change anything. And the weekly ticket to someone who wants to repeat two and three times, in the course of a week, dives will obviously be a discount, as it is in land corresponding areas where there are such possibilities. So what has been submitted by our parliamentary representative is under way and partly, especially for educational, student and other, is true as I said either reduced or zero. Let's see what we've heard about the Acropolis. You obviously did not have time to learn about the conclusions of the 7th International Meeting of the Acropolis, the UNSMA, which has demonstrated and demonstrated that none of what you are discussing and want to say has happened. But I have something else to say, regardless of all of this. When our Paralympic Team came up, before going to Tokyo and when, on the occasion of various European programmes, they went up to the Acropolis for the first time people who couldn't reach out, if you were there or if you wanted to see the pictures with a different eye, outside the party houses, you would feel as moving and proud as we felt, but that's what you wanted to see. We're here at 6 p.m., 16.00 hours London time, and there's the meeting of Prime Minister Mitsotakis with Boris Johnson underway. One of the themes is our country's constant demand for return and reunification of the Parthenon sculptures - which are located in the British Museum - in the Acropolis, at the Acropolis Museum in contact with the chask monument. I consider it unfortunate, at least today, when the Prime Minister's speech at UNESCO has been preceded, and when this appointment is made, to discuss the thousands of cultural goods, which we are not asking to return. Fortunately, the Ministry of Culture, whatever is illegal, on the basis of the treaty of UNESCO and UNIDROIT, asks and proves it and returned to Greece, and it is hundreds of hundreds of returns. Don't level it all. So today, on this particular day Mr.Mitsotakis repeats and places - the only Prime Minister so clearly and at the highest level - that Parthenon's sculptures in the British Museum are stolen, the monument is chask, requires their reunification, and in no case is our country able to recognize the prestige, possession and ownership of the British Museum or England. I leave everything else, I stand up to it. Let's go talk about this piece of legislation. Shall I begin with what happened last Thursday in the House? Can I write down a few things from today's meeting? Just a little. I hear why the encoding didn't come earlier, we didn't have time to read it, etc. When you want to do something, you do it in a very short time, unless you don't want to, if you find a thousand pretexts. When we call them fast track bills like the 2015 Memorandum, they went through much more concise procedures than the specific code. Gentlemen of counter-population, it is quite different to pursue hard political criticism and structural opposition and it is quite different to constantly use the same outdated rhetoric, to deliberately choose to leave the designated parliamentary procedure, resorting to regular so-called parliamentary activism. I shall also refer to two points from what the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman has said. I must admit that I would be very troublesome if I listened to SYRIZA that I do not follow the policy defined by the Prime Minister and the Government. But, obviously, every minister in every government has to follow the policy of his Prime Minister. And secondly, if I had praised SYRIZA, I would have been very troublesome because it would mean that I did not do my job, but I do nothing, as was the work at the Ministry of Culture in 2015-2019, with an exception, the ten thousand monuments that were allocated to the Supreme Court. Once again as a Qualified Opposition, you are making moves of impression, parading a legislative process for micro-political reasons. Now let's go see the two articles 66 and 71, although I think that at the beginning of the sitting I was very clear. Especially for Article 66, we have brought the legislative arrangement in the way I read it, and I repeat it. In the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 of Article 66 of the Code of Law on the Protection of Antiquities and in general of the cultural heritage ratified by Article 1 of the draft law instead of words - in introductory terms - ‘and in Articles 13 and 14’, the words ‘in Articles 13 and 14 in Article 15(5) and 15a and 16’ shall be inserted. I think that Rule 71 has been extensively debated, I have said so in committee, I have repeated it, and the rapporteur has said so a moment ago. I don't think we need to say more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u169	Madam Minister, they're gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u170	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, I have not interrupted you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u171	They've got to get in. You're misleading us again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u172	I would like to say something about what I have heard, that in the Committee on Codification the working group was five judges of the Council of State and two executives. Staff members who are employed in working groups on the basis of their institutional status, at least in the two and a half years of my term of office, have no conviction against them. I also think that it is extremely insulting for both the eminent and the Central Coding Committee as a whole that they wanted to mislead or mislead them. Look, we are talking about very serious people, who have invested years, have devoted their lives to justice. So don't be too equivalent and, in fact, deliberately isotopic. With regard to a number of other remarks that have been made - and you have mentioned today - especially the seventh paragraph of Article 52 of the draft Code codified by Article 52 of Law 3028, which concerns the irresponsibleness of members of the Central Advisory Councils, I have said so before and I repeat it. Under Article 52(7) of the draft law of the Code, paragraph 6 of Article 10 of Law 3207/2003 is codified in conjunction with the second and third subparagraphs of Article 1 of Law 3094/2003, as referred to in the draft regulation. With regard to Article 34c, I will not go into the essence of who underestimated and overrated the Documentation and Protection of Cultural Goods, because I replied earlier. A mistake by the Central Committee on Codification has indeed been incorrect here, which will be changed in the next few years. As far as the possibility of managing sea archaeological sites other than the Ministry of Culture and the State is concerned, it is obviously not so and, of course, Article 7 of Law 3028/2002 is not circumvented, which is codified and transferred to the Code. In particular, Article 15(3) states that 'if, for the established one-way archaeological sites, no management body has been designated by a decision of the Minister of Culture and Sport...' - who is the third? - "...or by means of a programme contract under Article 100 of Law No.3852..." - "to get in and in by local authorities - "... the administration body is to be defined as the responsible body responsible for the modern antiquities of the Ministry of Culture and Sport". Are we not reading properly or do we want to say that a card is read and attributed? Or are you making unauthorized conspiracy just to create impressions? Because even if I accept that you invoke the 2020 law of the Ministry of Tourism, if there were such a matter, it would have taken place long ago. We wouldn't expect to arrive at the end of 2021 through a code to understand it. The draft law ultimately consists of a total of ten sections...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u173	We had voted against it...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u174	You may have voted against it, but it is the law of the state and codification takes into account the provisions which are the laws of the State. The draft law therefore consists of a total of ten sections, including arrangements for the protection of cultural heritage, real estate monuments and sites, movable monuments, archaeological research and works for the protection of monuments, museums, access and use of monuments and sites, financial incentives, collective bodies of the Ministry, criminal provisions and special transitional and final provisions. Nearly all the articles of the draft are codified the existing provisions, the text of which has been transposed automatically by the relevant legislations in which they belong. A number of articles have been recast in order to comply with the relevant judicial decisions of the Council of State. A number of articles in the existing legislation, which have already been repealed by newer provisions, have been received and are not included in the codification. What do I mean? (c) Paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 50 of the 328, which have already been repealed by Article 90 of Law No4674/2020 for the words ‘within any general or special provision’ and for the last subparagraph of paragraph 14(c) of paragraph 14 relating to the exploitation of property owned, used or managed by the Ministry of Culture or the Archaeological Resources Fund, now SGP, as well as movable or immovable refreshments owned by, used or managed by the Ministry of Culture and Sport, or by the then archaeological resource located in or operating for the service of visitors of organised archaeological sites and historical sites referred to in Article 72 of Law 3028, since the provisions to which reference have already been made have already been repealed in the case of Article 44 of Law 4761. I would like to point out that the codification process does not add new regulatory provisions. It is restricted to the systeming of the provisions applicable to the protection of cultural heritage. For this reason, the proposed draft law does not contain any provision expressly abolishing a provision of a law currently in force, except those that have been abolished by earlier laws or in any case do not apply. Finally, the draft law, if accepted by Parliament, will have the force of formal law and replace the laws whose provisions are codified, thus any changes to the consolidated provisions to be made to the draft law to be adopted. The codification of the legislation on the protection of antiquities and cultural heritage constitutes, like any codification of legislation, an institutional reform very important for the proper functioning of the state, compliance with the requirements of the Constitution and the adoption of good legal practice. That is why I call on you to accept the proposal of the Ministry of Culture and Sport and to vote in favour of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u175	Mr President, one word on Rule 71.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u176	But there's no procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u177	It's very important...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u178	Is that a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u179	It is a question of Article 71, and it is a question of Article 71. The Minister didn't say anything...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u180	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u181	An explanation, nothing...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u182	After he filed a law school. What am I supposed to do with it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u183	It's not legal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u184	For Article 71, I was put at the beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u185	Replace your seat, Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u186	I was at the outset and our rapporteur, with whom I fully agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u187	So it's clear. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle and the whole draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport is being declared a final one: "Following the Code of Law on the Protection of Antiquities and the Cultural Heritage in general" and their vote will be taken separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes two areas, the beginning and the entire bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u188	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u189	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u190	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Following the Code of Law on the protection of antiquities and cultural heritage in general’ was accepted by a majority in principle and as a whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u191	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u192	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-16-S1-commons.u193	With the consent of the House at 18.13 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 17 November 2021, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: (a) a reference to the anniversary of 17 November on the revolt of the Polytechnic and a minute's silence in memory of the fighters and victims of the uprising of the Polytechnic and Democracy; (b) parliamentary scrutiny, discussion of current questions.
