ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 22-7-2021, the minutes of its PRACTICAL meeting, Thursday 22 July 2021, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Institutional Law of the Court of Auditors and other regulations’.]] Before entering the topical and urgent debate, I would like to make a reference. Today, three years have been completed by the destructive fire in Matti, which cost us our lives to a hundred two fellow humans. Please keep a minute silence in their memory. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] Their memory is eternity. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday 26 July 2021: A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 945/14-7-2021, a topical question by MP Chania of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Pavlos Polakis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The construction of new schools in Kastelli, the Municipality of Kissamos". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 955/19-7-2021 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'At the immediate treatment of the problems created by the programmes of the olive-growers'. 3. The question by number 951/19-7-2021 was raised by MP I Eastern Attica of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Protection of the National Park of Schinia and safeguarding the conditions for the access of the people to it". 4. The question by number 946/14-7-2021 of the Greek Parliamentary of Serres, Mr. Konstantinos Boubas, to the Minister of Finance, on "Not at the closure of the only bank of the Municipality of Amphipolis". 5. Under number 948/16-7-2021, a topical question by Congressman B2' West Athens of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Standardisation of high-voltage lines in Agios Anargyros, Saint Varvara and Aigaleo". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP B2' Western Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Panagiotis Kourublis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Public complaints for increased and incomprehensible electricity accounts”. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 956/19-7-2021 of the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Recording of the damage caused by high temperatures in agricultural crops and direct support measures for producers'. 3. The question under number 950/19-7-2021 by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Renewing the fleet of taxis with anti-environmental technologies'. 4. The Question No 964/19-7-2021 by the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Georgios Psychoyou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The Corinth Canal remains closed. A great loss of revenue, a great deal of anguish among workers and local society." 5. Under No 957/19-7-2021, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'To remove the discrimination of agricultural parcels from the legacy of rural rehabilitation of Mirasia refugees'. 6. The question by number 958/19-7-2021 of the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Support measures and initiatives to promote Greek raisins". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 6670/18-5-2021 by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The institutional solution for all arbitrary category 5 with building permission". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 6814-24-5-2021 asked by SYRIZA's MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Dangerous indifference by the Government for fire protection and underfunding for the protection of Shahik Sou and the wider area of Thessaloniki". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In a written document, the Secretary-General for Legal Affairs and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that Questions 947/14-7-2021, 953/19-7-2021, 963/19-7-2021, 962/19-7-2021, 961/19-7-2021, 961/19-7-2021 will be debated today. We begin the debate with the fourth with number 953/19-7-2021, a topical question by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Application of measures on the heightened problems faced by Roma in the Nea Zois Aspropyrgos area". Mr Katsotis, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the Roma in the Nea Life of the White Vulture area are facing serious problems, which affect the quality of life of our thousands of people in the region, children, the elderly, the LEADER. About a year ago, in conditions of heat and pandemic in this region, with responsibility for the Municipality of Aspropyrgos and with the government's real coverage, bulldozers destroyed the accommodations of these people without warning and, above all, without such relocation, which ensures human living conditions. One year after the government, the Attica Region and the Municipality of Asvrupt continue to jeopardise the health and life of the Roma, who live in this region and the residents in the wider region, as they have been converted into an vast garbage site, since for a long time the necessary waste bins have not been available. Moreover, under the responsibility of the municipal authority, the necessary cleaning and disinfection services in the area are completely absent. The 7th Municipal School of Assyprus, located in New Life of Assyprus and in which many Roma children are attending, consists exclusively of precaution rooms. The superhuman efforts made by existing educational staff cannot compensate for the basic shortcomings in infrastructure and staff, given the particular requirements of these people's educational work. The above added the fact that these people do not have drinking water and electricity. At the same time, the road is almost destroyed, while the necessary sewer system does not exist in the area. In pandemic conditions it is a challenge to continue, Minister, on all matters, to promote individual responsibility. The problems facing the Roma are well known, especially in the last five years with the decisive contribution of the "ELLAND PASSE". It is clear that any observatory and any mediation services are not intended to resolve the problem definitively, but to show the virtual reality of equal opportunities and bend any justified reactions. We ask you, Minister, what measures you intend to take to deal with this dreadful situation in this region, given the unacceptable attitude taken by the Presidential Authority of the European Union. We're waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Katsotis. The Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Stylianos Petsas, will answer. Mr. Pecha, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I thank Mr Katsotis for the timely question. You asked me what the government's position is and what action we will take in the next period to improve the lives of people living in the New Life of the White Tower and especially our fellow Roma citizens. First of all, for the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis there are no first and second-class citizens. In Roma, as in all the groups of citizens in need of protection, it is important to protect and maintain equality and equality of opportunity. We respect all citizens and try, with works and not in words, to help them to improve their everyday lives. There is and must be care of the state for all people, all our fellow citizens, for those who cannot, for those who do not have and for the special groups of the population. This is what we do every day. In this context, I say that soon the new national strategy for the social inclusion of the Roma will come to a public debate, with a reference period of 2021-2030, drawn up in accordance with the guidelines of the new European strategic framework for the integration, equality and participation of the Roma and the recommendation of the Council of Europe of 10 March 2021. However, in a rule of law we cannot, on the one hand, support equality and, on the other, overlook cases of violation of private and public property, with arbitrary buildings from any group of citizens. In such cases, the necessary mechanisms must be put in place to restore justice. Equality is a right but also an obligation for every citizen. Racial origin or any other characteristic needs protection must not and cannot operate at the expense of others. The protection of public health and the environment, as well as the equal treatment of all our fellow citizens, works on both sides. Secondly, I would like to clarify that in accordance with Article 75 of the Code of Municipalities and Communities, L.3463/2006, the design and implementation of actions for vulnerable groups in its area of competence belonged exclusively to the relevant Local Government I grade. In cooperation with the General Secretariat of Social Solidarity and Fight against Poverty of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the municipality, as an implementing body, shall submit a request to this effect with the supporting documents required by the existing institutional framework of Law 4483/2017 to the Committee responsible for temporary relocation of special social groups. In this context, I know that the Municipality of Aspropyrgos is in direct cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, in order to find a solution for improving the living conditions of the region, while discussing the creation of an Annex to a community centre for the provision of support services. With regard to the issues of the operation of the social structures and cleanliness services of the Municipality of Assyprus, as well as the school units that are studying Roma, which you raised in your question, I submit in the minutes of the House a reply from the Municipality of Assyprus as a responsible body to find an appropriate place for relocating special social groups within its administrative limits, in which the initiatives and actions already taken are reflected. It has already had an important list of initiatives. I can assure you that the Ministry of Interior will stand abundantly in this work of the municipality and will immediately examine every request that the municipality be financially strengthened. Our aim is, more than ever, at the time of the coronary pandemic, to act targetedly on every body according to its responsibilities to improve the living conditions of the Roma. I am sure that the Municipality of Aspropyrgos has been working to that end and will continue to do so in close and systematic cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. When our contribution is requested, it will be provided immediately. As I have said, in a state of equivalency they cannot live up to two-speed citizens. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u5	You're welcome. Mr Katsotis has the floor for his denology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u6	Minister, I will read something to you and then tell me if what you have said to us again is not the case. "Obviously, we as the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Labour will speed up the process of finding a solution immediately, in order to find a place of installation, in the first phase, I suppose, and I'm guessing that it will be final in the wider future. In any case, we will do everything in our power to find a solution specifically for the issue of the Egyptian Prime Minister, so that there is no risk to the health and well-being of our fellow human beings, but above all there is no risk of health for the inhabitants and the wider region." So that is what Mr Lebanese, State Secretary for the Interior, said last year, at almost the same time. One year and the situation is even worse. It is known that the relocation is also foreseen. First the relocation and then install the private property accommodation. But here we have lives. All right, private property, but you have to take all measures of relocating these people to places such as this, safe for their health and health as a whole. But one year now, and nothing has been done at all, Minister. On the contrary, the situation has been exacerbated. In fact, with the fourth wave of pandemic, what are you waiting for? The Roma, for example, go into the platform and go for vaccination? Should it not be possible to take measures in this area of vaccines, the necessity for these people to be vaccinated too? Going to an ETA mobile workshop, have there been a station? I am talking about such health issues, beyond the other measures that need to be taken in the area, which are cleanliness, drinking water. All these are important issues, which have been raised a year now, Minister, unfortunately they have risen. It is not that we are in the period of the destruction of accommodation. Today, one year later, we are in a worse situation. The Municipality of Aspropyrgos has racist views against them. And even last year, in the debate on this issue, great responsibilities have emerged. But most of all, it's the government's responsibility. Of course it's the municipality's responsibility. However, what does the government do to deal with an intensified problem both for themselves and for the region in general? The government must take action immediately. This cannot continue any longer, Minister, in the region and for the Roma themselves, who are not, as you said, second-class citizens, but also for the inhabitants of the region at risk of public health. That is why we invite you to take concrete measures. You may not today tell us what measures these will be, but I think you can call on the mayor and put him in front of his responsibilities and take immediate relocation measures in a safe space, with all the conditions required for the health of these people and the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Petchas has the floor for three minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Two aspects for my answer: firstly, the question of relocation is not a simple matter. It concerns too many, who are involved in the problem. It's about people who have seen their private property being violated. It's about the public, the municipality, which has also seen his property being violated. It concerns the Roma themselves, who may not wish to relocate where they are proposed. We have many examples in the country where there were infrastructures and the funding was there, but the relocation took years. It's nothing new. See the case of Haliri, for example, to understand an area within the urban fabric what it may mean. From that point on, what do we do all this time? The list of the Municipality of Aspropyrgos, which shows that it has taken several measures, is very detailed to try and help him to help to relieve these citizens, to educate their children and to all those measures of health, which must be taken to protect the population from the pandemic. In particular, last year and this year we have given as a Ministry of the Interior emergency funding to the municipalities of EUR 237.1 million so far, we will also give EUR 50 million, through which there is, of course, the distribution for the Municipality of Egypt, so that they can cope with the reduced revenues and the increased expenditure associated with the pandemic, so that they can continue to support households and businesses in the area of responsibility of each municipality. With this report, I come to say that we are already in cooperation with all the people responsible, in order to better plan our vaccination programme for special population groups, like the Roma. I myself visited areas living in Roma for the last two weeks and in eastern Macedonia - Thrace and Thessaly. It is a bet to gain the acceleration and increase of the vaccination coverage of this population. There are many different recipes to reach the desired result. One of these is the one you mentioned, Mr. MEP, which is the activation of more EGE's mobile units in collaboration with Marios Themistocleus, who is the Secretary General of Primary Care of the Ministry of Health, and Mr. These mobile units you will see them multiplying the next time. I would like to end, Mr President, by not accepting the Member's comment that there is a municipality in the country with a racist attitude.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Pecha. A little interruption will take place for one or two minutes. Mr. Chacloglu is coming and we're probably going to start with you, Mr. Triantafylides. We'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u10	The sitting shall be resumed. The first question will be debated under number 962/19-7-2021, by Mr.SYRIZA's MEP: Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros (Alekos)Trantafylides to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Let the sectoral contracts of electricians be signed immediately." Mr. Triantafylides, good morning. You have two minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I hope that I will finally receive an answer to a question that I have been asking for over three months with the means of parliamentary control, such as the reference I made to the Ministry of Labour on 14 April and which remains unanswered, in breach of the regulation of the time limit set by references to the executive authority on movements and the necessary steps to be taken as executive authority. This is, Minister, the major issue of proclamation as a mandatory requirement for the sectoral contract of work for electricians. It is not only a fair request from the Federation of Electricians of Greece, which, up to now, you deny as a Ministry of Labour that you will satisfy it, but also because the facts that I will explain to the House, and to you, and the President really testify to the necessity that he should already have been declared compulsory by your Ministry, that is, by Mr Hatzidakis and you. On 18 March of this year, the Greek Federation of Electrologers signes its sectoral contract. It's the deposit transaction 4 at 18-2021, I'll testify to it in the Minutes. On April 2th, three members of a contract workshop in Evia, and more specifically Eretria, who was doing the work of the DEDEN, are losing their lives from electrocution and one is seriously injured. I will submit the tragic news report of 2 April 2021 in the Minutes. On April 8th, in a letter sent to you by the Federation of Electricians of Greece, you are asked dramatically to declare their sectoral contract as compulsory in order not to mourn other victims. It's what I used in my report. The Federation of Thessaloniki Electricians tells you: "After the fatal accident that occurred in Evia, and especially in workers who were used without professional licenses for electricians, it is imperative to declare them compulsory when the employers ask for it. You must not allow as a Ministry of Labour," they tell you their trade union body in Thessaloniki and the federation, "black labour and you can be sure that our members will appreciate your own decisions in the legal demand for compulsory work. We expect soon', they close, 'your decision not to mourn other victims'. It's April 8th. I'll testify to her in the Minutes. Then on April 14, the MP of Thessaloniki, as was required and sensitive, sends the report that I mentioned to you. On 14 April a Protocol on references 2394: 'Let the collective agreement of employment be declared compulsory'. As of today, this report has not been answered. Of course, then it comes up - unfortunately bad magmas the electricians - on April 16th and a second working accident at Kosanis A.S. with contractors, two more dead. I now come to the strange thing of the matter, and that is what I am closing down and asking the question straight away, and I thank the President for his understanding and kindness. On May 8, 2021, in a press release from your Ministry - that is, your Ministry took it out, you took it, Mr. Tsakloglu - says: "The road to expansion takes three sectoral collective labour contracts, including for the terms of remuneration and work of electric shops throughout the country, first and second, for electricians engaged in lifts." And closes the press release of your Ministry, Mr. Tsakloglou - you write these, represent you - "In this context, the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs Mr. Hatzidakis will sign the relevant decisions", i.e. the two collective labour agreements, "within the next few days, as provided for in the current legislation". It was May 8th, and today we have 23 of July, it has been over two months as far as I can imagine, Minister. And you close: 'The Ministry of Labour proves by acts' - we have seen the actions - 'what stands on the side of workers and healthy entrepreneurship', you say, 'without reductions in compliance with the rules of collective labour law, and of course, the issues relating to the collective security of people'. So why have you not declared the collective agreement compulsory? At the IAEA, at the Supreme Labour Council, Ms. Strainakis is President, your colleague, the Secretary-General, you are, is declared for you. Why don't you, Minister? Why don't you declare it compulsory, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u12	Good, Mr. Triantafylides. The rest in your dentistry. It has the floor for the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou to answer. Good morning, Mr. Chacloglu. You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u13	Good morning, Mr President, and thank you very much. Mr Triantafylides, first of all I would like to thank you very much for your question, because you are giving me the opportunity to address a really important issue, such as the extension of the scope of sectoral labour agreements. The Greek economy - and this communication you mentioned - needs good working conditions that will create good prospects for workers, but it also needs strong and competitive, mainly competitive, business and, at the same time, we want the best possible protection for workers. With regard to sectoral employment contracts, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs at a particularly difficult time for the economy, for the labour market, and for tourism, because of the consequences of the pandemic, has already advanced the extension of the larger branch labour contract. I am referring to the sectoral contract for hotel staff, which concerns about a hundred and fourteen thousand workers. By decision of the Minister of Labour and following a positive recommendation from the Higher Council of Labour, a collective agreement on the conditions of pay and work for workers in hotel activities throughout the country was generally concluded for all employers and workers in the sector concerned. It's the largest branch contract in Greece. Mr Triantafylides, for the extension of a collective contract of employment or an arbitration decision, two things are needed: firstly, the application submitted by any of the social and labour-related representatives to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and then the documentation of the impact of the extension on competitiveness and employment and its notification to the Higher Council of Labour. The Higher Labour Council gives a reasoned opinion to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, taking into account the request for extension, the documented confirmation of the Ministry's relevant department that collective regulation already binds employers who employ more than 50% of the workers in the industry or occupation - this is a very important treaty - and, thirdly, the finding of consultation of the parties before the Higher Labour Council on the necessity of expansion and its implications for the competitiveness of enterprises, the functioning of competition and employment. Obviously, this procedure also provides for the extension of the two collective agreements to which you refer, namely, firstly, the collective agreement on the terms of employment of electricians throughout the country and, secondly, the collective agreement on the terms of employment of electricians employed in technical lifts. Both of these conventions, whose signature for their extension has already been launched following a positive recommendation from the CSCE, will give you a detailed answer to the details in my dentistry, as, according to the information we have from the relevant directorate of the Ministry of Labour, both are at the final stage before their publication in the Official Journal of the Government. In fact, one has received a number of FECs, to which I shall refer shortly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Triantafylides, because you are also from Thessaloniki, three minutes for you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have waited, reading through the text that service actors have made sure to inform you that it is not a bureaucratic interoperable issue. It is an absolute matter in that it concerns human lives. Five human lives were lost in two accidents, which if measures had been taken, because that makes a collective labour contract. It does not only guarantee the lowest levels of income to be tolerated, the necessary insurance contributions and the cover which the employer is obliged to provide to the worker, but also the conditions of health and safety. In the name of the free economy and the cheaper costs, people are recruited, who do not have the necessary degrees to protect themselves, because the contractor is either concerned with cooperation with PPC or with other cases, it does not take the necessary measures, because if he took them, five human lives would have been saved. In this sense I ask and I do not understand and you did not give us a convincing explanation, because while you, Mr Tsakloglu, are saying that on 8 May, Mr Tsakloglu, look at me, please, in order to understand exactly what happened - on 18 March this particular case is declared and it is announced and the act of testimony is done. From 18 March to 8 May, when the IAS - the Supreme Labour Council - announces that it is under way, it is finalized, it means that there was the necessary time for the two months to get all the procedural procedures that you told us a moment ago. And not only was it not signed on 8 May, not only was it not signed on 8 June, not only was it not signed on 8 July, but we are 23 July and what should set fire on your balls to save and not mourn other victims, you do not do so. It's not a point of procedural and bureaucratic, Mr. Chacloglu. It is a question of simple elementary sensitivity, of protection for people involved in this subject. Four and a half thousand electricians throughout the country wonder why they are not doing so and why they are actually urging the Ministry of Labour to work black, people who are acting as omen electricians, while they do not have the necessary degrees to ensure both themselves and their lives for them and for their families, but also to do unfair competition with three hundred and four hundred people who, of course, are willing by the companies to employ them. The question therefore remains. Does the Ministry of Labour turn back on the "black" job? Isn't the countertrack of the contractors wouldn't let you sign it? Because the self-evident thing would be. And I'm not putting it now. I made the report, you didn't answer me. On April 14, I made a specific reference from the Step of the House. It wasn't Mr. Hatzidakis. It was Mrs. Syrevella, if I'm not mistaken, when we discussed the working bill. You didn't even tie up and arrived at 23 July. What are you waiting for? Should other accidents occur? Were we to mourn more victims? I expect you to give a convincing explanation - not to us - of what the basic collective agreement is. We know you're listening to a collective contract of employment, and you're plunging out. You're the individual contract, by yourself. You're not working collective agreements. We know. We've understood it. We've got it inspired. I hope the Greek people will also inspire it. Do the basics, though. Here your AACC with Mrs. Solinaki head gave the Ok for two and a half months. From May 8th to April 23rd, two-and-a-half months, two months and fifteen days have passed. Why don't you sign it? What's the point?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr Triantafylides. Mr. Chacloglu, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Triantafylides, we often refer to arrests in "registrative processes" without considering what is behind it. Believe in terms that exist there are substantial. In your question you referred and referred to two fatal accidents recently in the field of energy in your speech. I would like to inform the House of the relevant actions of the RCF, although this is obviously not related to the extension of collective agreements. The collective agreements concerned wages. Health and safety conditions are irrelevant, not to mention the existence of this collective agreement. There were some specific violations. It's not affected by what you're saying. The EIA in the case of Evia has submitted four monthly reports against the company concerned, and an administrative fine of EUR 50 000 was imposed on the same company for infringements of labour safety and health legislation. With regard to the fatal accident at St. Dimitrios Kozanis' steam station, according to the information provided by the SEA, the occupational accident investigation report is being retired and will be transmitted to the appropriate public prosecutor after its completion. With regard to the issue of both contracts, as I mentioned in my protology, the procedures for the extension of both collective agreements for the work of electricians have already been initiated. In particular, as the relevant director of the Ministry informed us, the request from the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Biotechnic Elevators Maintenance Facilities to extend from 2-22021 a collective contract of work on the terms of remuneration and work of electricians employed in the technical offices of lifts throughout the country, to which the impact documentation report is attached. The ministerial decision to extend this collective agreement is already on the National Office for Publication in the Official Journal of the Government and has already received a code number. It's the 35904, if you're interested. It is therefore a matter of days for its publication. The extension of the second collective agreement on the conditions for the remuneration and work of electricians throughout the country has also been initiated. This collective labour arrangements to date only binds the parties that have taken place. What are these? It is the Panhellenic Federation of Ergonomists Associations, the General Confederation of Professional Artists of Greece and the Federation of Electrologists of Greece. And this contract is, as the Ministry's services inform us, at the final stage before it is sent to the National Printing Office and published in the FEK, so that its compulsory extension will apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u18	This final stage, how long does it last?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u19	Then it is. It's the second one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u20	Two and a half months the final stage?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u21	Mr Triantafylides, I have already referred to some of the terms and said that they are essential.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u22	But you, May 8, announced that she was ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u23	A number of issues need to be considered first.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u24	Say a date.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Triantafylides, you're interrupting him. He's answering you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, I would like a second more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u27	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u28	The main of them - and this is what is being checked - are whether the signatories are employing more than half of the industry or of the profession. With new labour legislation, this information will be almost readily available. So the whole process is easy. That is the only reason why there is no other reason why this delay exists. For the answer to your report, I admit it's not in my part of social security to answer. The report didn't answer directly. That's the data I gave you now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr Triantafylides. We move on to the debate of the first under number 947 in the first cycle of MP B1' North Athens, Neo Democrat Georgios Koumoutsakos, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on "Development interventions in the north of Attica". Mr. Kumucako, have been waiting since this morning with patience, here you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u30	Good morning, Mr. President. Minister, my topical question about the development potential of the northern sector, but also your presence here to respond, confirms our common interest in this part of Attica, which has a high per capita income. The four four municipalities have about 27 000 euros a year. It's the second after the central sector of Attica. It is at the same time a unity that needs serious intervention. And entrepreneurship-support infrastructure and action for innovation and for accessibility and smooth mobility. While that is, if you want, the challenge for the northern sector, we are all glad to see that growth dynamics in the southern sector are really very great. The coastal front, all the investments that are going to be made are there and with the Development Fund and using the NSRF, Greek, Faliros Refresh, South Coastal Front of Attica, etc. There's a plan for a big biker. This dynamic of the southern sector is not competitive, but as a precedent for development for the northern sector as well. We should also follow the development potential of the southern sector in the north in order to avoid imbalances and development inequalities. The interventions that are now under way in the northern sector, with the use of the NSRF and other financial instruments, are time to prove as a government that such interventions will give a real prospect of substantial and stable development in the northern Athens sector. So the question is: What are the Ministry's footage, given that the major interventions currently being planned are either outside the limits and I am talking in particular about Tatoi, or within the framework of the OECD that the Prime Minister has announced a very important investment, but we want to see it concerning both issues of use and regeneration, and how will the alleged exclusion from the operations based in the northern sector be addressed because the region has now been designated as a region in transition and is therefore outside the map of State aid by means of the ESDP and investment law? Finally, there is a new challenge. The northern sector, precisely because it was designated as a region in transition, has reduced funds in relation to the past. These three issues, what is planning, what is going to be done with businesses that are no longer on the state aid map and the fact that the northern sector is considered a region in transition and therefore, it will have reduced funds in the past, are creating a total challenge for the government. I would therefore like to know how your ministry thinks to face these three challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u31	Thank you too, Mr Kumucako. The Minister for Development and Investment will answer Mr Spyridonas-Adonis Georgiadis. Good morning, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleague, it is obvious that your question and timely is and is extremely welcome as a question from the Ministry of Development and from me personally because we share both of us and one feature, we are also Parliamentary representatives of the northern sector and it would be extremely absurd to be Minister for Development and Investment in Greece and not to be interested in the constituency which has been sending me for fourteen consecutive years to the Greek Parliament. So I take it a little bit in order to know what we are doing, and above all, to reassure the concerns and start first on the State aid map. In fact, in the new State aid map 2022-2027, Attica, as a region in transition, is invited to declare and agree with the committee which areas will have from very low rates of State aid up to zero. This must not, however, cause immediate concern in the northern sector. The State Aid Charter concerns new investments - which are to be financed through it either through development law or other instruments of State aid - and does not mean reduced funding in general by the NSRF or by the NSRF. In fact - and I would like this to be heard - I am extremely proud that Greece has been the first country throughout the European Union to submit its draft for the ESDP 2021-2027, and if everything goes well in the next few days we expect and the approval of this project first of all from all over Europe, which will enable us more quickly than everyone else to agree with Europe and the various sectoral programmes and so to design too many programmes for the northern sector. In particular, I must tell you that we have succeeded in negotiating with Europe, although the Commission's services were very opposed to it, and it was not easy to achieve it, to transfer 5% more resources from the ERDF and the ESF to the regions in transition, namely, in the regions of Attica and the south of the Aegean. Since we have decided as a government and have increased overall the NRP for the regions, I must tell you that in the RDP of the Attica region, which will be allocated to the next NRP, it will be 38% more than it was in the current NRP. So, although there is what you said, not only will the funds be less, but it will be by 38% more. We have ensured this, and it was not at all self-evident, and I do not hide from you that my own personal great negotiation with Commissioner Ferrara has also taken place. In order not to abuse the time, I will tell you one - one of the projects and the NRP already scheduled and starting in northern Athens and are of a great character, but also the Recovery Fund and the Public Investment Program in my dentistry, so that you too know them as a Member, but of course the other Members of Northern Athens and especially our fellow citizens who have the honour to represent them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kumucaco, you have three minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u34	I should like to thank the Minister for his reply and the readiness to be here today, as I said to confirm our common interest in our constituency. I am recording what is currently happening in the southern sector at investment level. A billion is the Greek case with great prospects. Two hundred million for the Faliriian front, forty to fifty million euros, are planned for the cycling route from Piraeus to Voula. These are speeches of great and intense development perspective. We are not jealous, we demand that this northern sector also serves as an example for us, and I am delighted with the answer I have received on the funds to be devoted to this sector, which, Minister, on the basis of a very recent October 2020 OECD report on cohesion policy, says - and I would like this to be retained - 'After an annual growth rate of 2%, the country will return to pre-crisis levels in fifteen years'. While - I stress - at an annual rate of growth in the Attica region only by 3%, the recovery period is reduced to half, that is to say, seven years. This shows how crucial it is for the country's overall economic development, the development of Attica as a whole, but we here claim a serious piece of development support for the northern sector, and I very much expect you to list the development plans that concern this region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr Kumucako. Here, Minister, you have the floor to tell us the works.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u36	As far as my colleague is concerned, the part of the Greek is a private investment and I cannot go into private private decisions. If there is any such or other proposal for private investment in the northern sector, we will certainly support it, as you know, as we are a government fanatical in favour of private investment. As far as public investment is concerned, however, it can tell us that the northern sector is not missing. First of all, with my cooperation and Mr. Kostas Karamanlis the Minister of Infrastructure finally joined and started the interconnection of Kymi Avenue with the National Road. This work, my dear colleague, is a budget of 300 million. So this project that we have been discussing for years in northern Athens has already begun and I must tell you something that is not known, that I am in negotiation with the Ministry of Infrastructure in order to move forward with the subordination of the section of the Heraklion-Pefki border so that we can ensure that the property of the local population is not affected and, above all, that there is much greater use of the upper area as a public area of the population. So, not only did we go ahead and include a 300 million project, but we are already improving it from the original study so that it becomes much better for the inhabitants of northern Athens. Secondly, the renewal of the Tatoi estate, which also belongs to the limits of northern Athens, is a project of 130 million. This work is therefore included in our plans for northern Athens and the wider region of Kifisia. Yesterday, the Prime Minister announced the renewal of the new OAS by means of the Recovery Fund - we are talking about the administrative limits of Amarousio - costing EUR 43.5 million. So if you sum up the 300, 130, and 43,5- I'm only talking about the big projects, I'm going to come to the small - already north Athens is not missing any other region of the country and certainly not the southern region. I exclude private investment which is something quite different and has to do with the abandonment for many years of the coastal front of Athens, where the abandonment of the past few years now creates conditions of greater private exploitation. I would like to tell you, however, that as Minister of Development and Investment, I have dealt with particularly and with smaller projects in northern Athens that I would like to share with you to know them. First of all, we incorporated a very large amount of EUR 10 million into the Public Investment Project in the Municipality of Galatium for the renewal and creation of film and parking places in the famous Zaira region. It is a project which the region of Galatians expected for at least thirty years and now on our own government, my dear colleague, and - I can say it - from me as Minister, it is financed and started and official announcements with the mayor will also be made in a few days' time. Also, over the present government and my term of office in the Ministry of Development, we have incorporated and already built the Great Ionian Center in New Ionian Sea, New Ionian Metropolitan, New Philadelphia, New Halkidona. It is a project of 14m euros, a multi-dimensional civilization in which all the memory of the refugees in Asia Minor is saved, with parking places. A great cultural centre, a work of breath for New Ionia. Also, I have to tell you that I am in contact with the Ministry of Culture to provide a solution for the Fix estate in the New Heraklion area, which is also another project that has been arousing the inhabitants of the region for many years, remains untapped and we put it in orbit so that the inhabitants of the region can enjoy it and be able there to upgrade the quality of their lives. Of course, there are many smaller projects. I won't say it all because I want too much time. So, as you can see from what we have already done, the only thing we have not let go to the projects is North Athens and - would dare say - the increased income per capita in the region, which, however, is too convincing and misleading, because it is another income that someone has in Ekali or someone who lives in Kifisia and another income that someone in Galachi, in New Heraklion or in New Ionia or in New Philadelphia or in New Halkidonia. So, in that sense, we take care of northern Athens as a government, and I personally take care of northern Athens too, as much as I have a duty to take care of every region of the country and of course of my own constituency. I told you that we had a tough deal with the Commission and finally the funds for the transition regions, such as Attica, will not be less, but will be much more important in the new NSRF. So we will have the opportunity with our good cooperation with Mr Patoulis - with whom I would like to say publicly that I have excellent cooperation over these two years and many of the projects that I mentioned are done in full cooperation with the Attica Region - to have much more available resources to implement in the next few years and to enjoy the people of northern Athens as well. Thank you very little.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, too. Have a good day to both of you. We move to the first question of the cycle of petitions - questions number 7019/2-6-2021 of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The Declaration of the New Local Collective Labour Convention of the Guides to Tourist Bus in Crete as a general requirement" Mr. Vardakis, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have an ally with the President, so you will allow me to raise a very serious issue on the agenda. As the House closes next week, although we have tabled a question, I would like, Minister, to hear me very carefully. For over a year now, most LAG committees have not been working in many areas of the country and especially in Crete, with the result, Mr Minister, that at present hundreds of our fellow citizens who do not have an income or a euro cannot get their sick leave, gestation permits, lotteries etc., have not been able to meet, because the committees do not meet to approve or see the objections made by people, so that they are in a tragic situation. I think it's your debt today. You should have sent a ministerial decision for six months on some committees to work and had not done so. Please, I would ask you today to give the mandate for these committees to function. Don't go in September. A lot of people, like I told you, have a survival problem. For example, Minister, a couple where the wife was working and suffered an accident at the moment have zero income. Something else. Let me remind you, Minister, that on 5 April, in my timely question - it is worth learning that - on the issue of redundancies of tourist bus drivers, among other things, you said: 'But I must point out that the EES has made a recommendation to businesses to pay compensation to drivers who are not being retired and to check the legality of redundancies'. I had a feather, Minister. Unfortunately, your services have written us in the oldest of their shoes. Unfortunately, you forced us to appeal to the courtrooms. With fundraisers we have paid for the costs and had to pay us court expenses too. Employees have been vindicated. Thirty-seven bus drivers since yesterday are at work. Of course, there is no question of dismissal compensation anymore. Of course, I mentioned it because a strong message to Mr Hatzidakis after the last working bill - an abortion that he brought. I'm coming to our point. I will say two things and I hope you do not give the answer you have given to your previous colleague. After an extremely difficult year, Minister, which included numerous months of negotiations of workers and employers, a hundred days of strike, the biggest strike in recent years, the Association of Tourism and Travel Offices of Crete and the Association of Tourist Bus Guides "Ermesis" signed the new local collective labour agreement of three years, which is a very positive step in all of the grim conditions in industrial relations. Mr Minister, in order to avoid misunderstandings and not give me any answers, I think that your scientific adequacy does not allow it, as the previous one. Tourist agents have sent to the Ministry all the data, records and others, and obviously agree for reasons of competitiveness to the mandatoryity of the contracts. Of course, there has been a request to the AACC and, by extension, to the AACC, unless the AACC is only used for an opinion of redundancies, as we have seen two days ago. Therefore, any of your refusals to declare compulsory the contract for guides to tourist buses in Crete, Mr. Minister, is not justified. Therefore, I ask you directly: Since the Contracting Parties' request to extend the contract has been tabled, as well as the report to document the impact of the extension of the collective agreement on competitiveness, on the functioning of competition, on employment, you must declare the Local Collective Labour Convention on Cyprus' guides as a general requirement now! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Vardakis. The Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Here, Mr Tsakloglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Vardakis, for the first two questions you have asked me, I am obviously not ready to answer. Send me any questions you have, I could see it. Now, with regard to the answer I gave to Mr Triantafylides, you will allow me to say that she was clear, not just clear, clear and justified, and so I hope that it will also be the answer to you. I would like to start by saying that the whole economy and, in particular, the tourism sector have been really tested for over a year by the pandemic. We hope that this year will be the last year of suffering, as we finally have in our patronage the weapon of vaccination and we call on the state and society to use it for the benefit of society as a whole. We are indeed going through a period when the forecasts of the course of tourism are uncertain. On the basis of the statistics available, however, things show that we are heading for a gradual improvement. The average completeness of the hotels around mid-July was close to 50%, improved compared to last July, and especially Crete seems to have the highest percentage of its hotels open. 97% of the hotels are open from the beginning of June to July 10th, about three hundred thousand foreign arrivals in Crete. I wish that things would go well and that course will continue! Throughout the pandemic, the state consistently supported workers and employers, despite the country's extremely high public debt. EUR 24 billion has already been committed in 2020 and another EUR 11.6 billion has been allocated for 2021 and a significant part of these amounts has been directed to the tourism sector, which has been very affected, and to all sectors directly related to it, one of which is the tourist bus industry. In relation to the substance of your question, I should like to point out that I recently answered a similar question that Mr Kegeroglu had asked me. The contract between the Association of Tourist and Travel Offices of Crete and the Association of Guides to Tourism buses "ERMIS" was signed on 25-5-2021 and the time of validity is from 1-4-2021 to 31-12-2023. In order to become a universal obligation, an application for extension is required and the numerical conditions laid down by law are met. The request for extension, as laid down by law, is examined by the Ministry's Directorate responsible, whose findings are sent to the Higher Labour Council. This in turn, in order to decide whether to extend or not, must take into account the application, the substantiated confirmation of the relevant department of the Ministry that the collective agreement already commits employers who employ more than 50% of the workers in the industry or occupation and, thirdly, the finding of consultation of the parties before the Higher Labour Council on the necessity of expansion. Following this procedure, the Higher Labour Council shall send a recommendation to the Minister and he may, in turn, declare the Convention compulsory for all. Contrary to what you said, the application that has been made is very recent, that is, on 30-6-2021. The "ERMIS" Guides Association, which I mentioned earlier, submitted a request for an extension of the relevant collective labour contract. The information we have had from the Ministry's competent department is currently being investigated to assist the numerical requirement of the law, the result of which will be introduced for discussion at the Higher Labour Council. We therefore expect this procedure to be completed in order to consider extending the entire sector on the basis of the expected recommendation from the Higher Labour Council. Let me point out at this point that when the new employment bill recently passed by Parliament finds itself in full growth and implementation, the relevant information will be readily available, who are the employers who signed it, who are their respective employment rates throughout the industry, so this whole process of expanding collective labour agreements will be speeded up and will be considerably accelerated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u41	Thank you too, Minister. Here, Mr Vardakis, you have three minutes now for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u42	Minister, I will say this once again - I have told you again - that I have confidence in your scientific competence. I have read a lot of things and told you before that this scientific adequacy does not allow - I say it and let me say it - these escapes or those superficial answers. And I would like to explain that on 10 June in fact - here is Mr Kegeroglu - you have answered exactly the same questions. You said - and here is the crucial point - to Mr Kegeroglu, and what I am reading to you now proves, Minister, that we are not oppositioning the opposition, we are trying to resolve issues, as the previous one about the IPOs I told you: 'The information we had on this convention so far is that it has not been submitted to the relevant departments, that is to say, the Crete Inspectorate or the central directorate of the Ministry of Labour, requesting the Contracting Parties to extend the contract. This is quite a critical point in relation to your question," you say. I must admit I was surprised and asked to double-check. If this is not done, it cannot proceed with the rest of the procedure. Once it has been tabled, what you said - not to repeat them - will be followed by the procedure laid down in others. I asked you why you didn't double-check it. This has already been submitted and, indeed, the tourist agents for the first time - obviously for reasons of competitiveness - have sent all the data provided by the legislation and the request has been made to the Labour Inspectorate and it is obviously not my fault or the workers if the Labour Inspectorate has not transferred the request to the IAS. We saw yesterday that the AACC met and met for the redundancies opinion. Now you're telling me we have to wait. Consider this afternoon, double check it out if the data have come and, if the evidence predicts expansion, do it tomorrow morning, as created the same subject with the hotel staff. And from the Step of the House - from the headquarters, rather - Mr. Hatzidakis said "in an hour I sign". Do the same, Minister, to get these people out of the deadlock, and after a hundred days of strike, they went to work the other day, and they're retired, to give them a message of optimism! You said - and quite rightly - that we all hope in a good tourist season. How will this good tourist season arise, Mr President, Minister? Just the tourist arrivals? Don't the people of tourism, who have to smiling into the hotel, the reception, the bus steering wheel and carry these people? Mr President, please, I would like you to see it this afternoon, and if that is the case, because I have a double-check, and the information has come to the Ministry, please contact the Secretariat-General to declare the contract compulsory on Monday. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Vardakis. Here, Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, I will be very brief, so let us not go up to the Step of the House. Mr Vardakis, as I mentioned in my prototype, first of all - first of all for the dates we have no doubt, I told you that this is the last day of June when the application was submitted - it is not that it is as old as you said before. And that is in line with the answer I gave to Mr Kegeroglu. As I mentioned in my prototype, the request of the Association of Tourist Bus Guides for the extension of the contract of employment is being examined by the Ministry's relevant agency to give the Higher Council of Labour the necessary information. The main issue is the numerical requirement of the law, namely employers who are bound by the contract to employ more than half of the workers in the sector. The legislator very wisely has introduced this arrangement. We've seen it several times before. Some big and powerful industry players, employers, in consultation with the club, which was usually theirs, imposed certain conditions on all companies in the industry that had a lot more jobs in the world. Many of these were marginal, they could not give the corresponding increases. What did they do? Some of them were closed down, some of them went to these incentives previously said by Mr Triantafylides, but from the reverse side to a black job. We don't want to do that. The law is good. That's what we're checking now. If the conditions of the law are met, it will be very happy to sign up to the Ministry of Labour. That is exactly what I was saying before. Once the relevant information is collected by the services of the Ministry of Labour, the Higher Council of Labour will make its suggestion to the Minister so that he can take the relevant decision. There's nothing strange about that. It's the normal procedure, and that's what we'll follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's go to the next question - Mr. Chacloglu, Heraklion is attacking! - the second question under number 6698/19-5-2021 of the circle of petitions and questions by the Member of the Heraklion Movement, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'The indifference of the government perpetuates pensioners' pension problems due to death'. Mr. Kegeroglu, good morning. You have two minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the government's planning for the digital issue of pensions was at the end of 2020 to issue 55% and at the end of 2021 to be issued 85%. Obviously this design has been overturned, it has not gone any further. The only category or one of the categories, the few, published in an electronic way, is the category of pensions due to death. But in this category we have major problems, because the right software has not been created for a number of cases involving the extradition of a death-related pension. In particular, when we have parallel or successive insurance - mainly TSMEDE, NAT, TSAY - they do not receive the pension due to a lack of proper software. No pension is issued. And I'm talking about death pensions in the name of the beneficiary. Secondly, while under Law 411/2019 the pension rate has been adjusted for the first three years from 50% to 70%, and since these pensions have been started and expired - the three-year period I mean, from 2016 onwards - we have the improvement on 13-5-2019, according to which if the beneficiary is a worker or has a pension, then 70% on pension goes by two, i.e. 35%. This is not integrated into software, so they continue to receive pension at 70%. So we're going to have a problem that's overpaid, and at some point you're going to start asking them back for money because of the failure of the ministry and the agency. Two more cases and I shall end, Mr President. Law 4611/2019 limited from five to three years of marriage in order for the husband to be entitled to pension. However, this simple legislative change has not even been captured in software. There are other important cases where software has not been created and because the issue of disability pension is very important to those who live in life, family, and especially when there are children, I think you should give a solution to these issues and we really have the result that we often agree here, but in practice it does not go any further. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Chacloglu, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u48	I will keep my time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u49	It's a very big deal. As long as you want to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u50	You're right. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Kegeroglu for the question. Over the past two years, there has been a great effort, both by the ECA and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, to address the issue of outstanding pensions and, at the same time, to promote the digitisation of all the procedures related to issuing pensions and of all kinds of citizens' transactions with the ECA. A number of measures have been taken to speed up the process and reduce the time when pensions are awarded to beneficiaries. Our aim is to reduce pension time and with him and the suffering of the citizens. According to the latest data from the IT system "ATLAS" for the monthly display of main pension awards, we seem to be on the right track. The rates of completion of pension applications have increased significantly in recent months. For example, eighty-five thousand thirty-three applications were completed in April 2021, while in the corresponding month of 2020 only sixty-three requests had been completed - apparently in the middle of a pandemic - only seven thousand seventy-one requests, but also in April 2019, which was not a pandemic, the figure was only ten thousand sixty-three requests. Our aim is soon - and especially after the activation of certified lawyers and accountants - to complete around thirty thousand requests monthly. The number of outstandings, according to the same source, always amounts to thirty-two thousand six hundred five pensions in April 2021 and is significantly reduced compared to that in September 2020, when it amounted to seventy-five thousand three hundred twenty-seven pensions, that is, a reduction that is more than forty-five thousand pensions. So these figures show that the situation is gradually improving and we believe that the rates of impairment of outstanding requests will be even faster in the near future. Already by EVKA, a number of computer applications are being implemented concerning legislative interventions taken, such as a reduction in pensions for employed pensioners, widow’s pensions, recalculation of pensions and others. With regard to death-related pensions, mentioned in your question, Mr Kegeroglu, based on the information we had from e-VDECA, they have been integrated into the automated version process through the Integrated Information System. At the same time, adjustments have been made to the pension rate due to death granted to survivors from 50% to 70% on the basis of Law 4611/2019, and legislation granting a pension on the basis of death is also applied by completing three years of marriage cohabitation or cohabitation for deaths from 1 -5-2019 onwards. With regard to the preparation of the survivors referred to in Article 12 of L.4387/2016, the relevant provisions for survivors and licensed children have been applied, except for the reductions in the reductions for those belonging to this category for which the computer application is ready for immediate implementation. EFKA informs us that the relevant software is at the correctness check stage and is completed within the current month. There will then be a gradual restoration of the retroactive amounts that may exist in order to eliminate divergences and outstandingities in the case of pensioners. For the subsidiary and the retrospective issue, I will be placed in my dentistry, because I have already spent my time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all, I have to say that the provision of the law to cut 50% if it works or receives a pension has to be adapted to the corresponding arrangements made in the event that a pensioner works and the 60% cut provided for by the Katrugalou Act has been reduced to 30%. We have tabled an amendment to you and we say that the cut in these cases really needs to be adjusted and reduced to 25%. That's one thing you need to see. I now come to the pension figures you mentioned. Look, you compare with 2019. Maybe that's the evidence. If we go to 2019, we have an increase of about 35% in outstanding pensions, because there was a great increase in 2020. We have since 2019, which was about a hundred and twenty - five thousand, today a hundred fifty - six thousand and ancillary from ninety thousand, today a hundred twenty - seven thousand. Singles may be about the same. The problem, therefore, if individual issues are not dealt with, will not be solved. As far as digitisation is concerned, only disability pensions and pensions of the OGA are issued digitally, i.e. about 10% to 15% of the pensions. How's it going to go? These, too, are problematic, as I mentioned. We have sixty-five thousand pension cases with parallel insurance, i.e. the annual increase, as provided for in the law quite rightly in 0.075%, such as the pensions of engineers, doctors, lawyers, who are pending because there is no accounting. We have problems with that. I specifically mentioned them and I do not want to repeat them. We must say that we need to speed up this process. Instead of resting, we need to see how we move forward. I have to tell the alarming evidence of the execution of the FBI. In 2020, over the year, there were two hundred forty-three employees retired. This year, in the first six months only, three hundred ones. That's a big leak. The provision is that eight hundred employees can leave this year, and you must have a way of replacing it and replacing it in a permanent and stable way and with the qualifications that will help in the direction we want. Go ahead and keep the added value to the EMCDDA, in recruitment these specialties that it needs today to operate this system. I want more specifically, Minister, if you can tell us when these individual software will be ready, in order to complete the digital pension version. Of course, since there has been a lot of discussion about the subsidiary, on the basis of the bill you will bring - I do not know if you will be tabling it before August or after that - it is an opportunity, beyond the purposes or options you have in relation to the subsidiary and beyond the controversy that will actually take place on different points of view, certain things that are found to suffer in the system, in order to issue the pensions, to resolve them on the basis of this bill, i.e. on the basis of the debate that will take place. And I think you should also accept the amendments that we have already tabled and the proposals that will be tabled in this period. So tell us what the design is to know what we're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Chacloglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, we are constantly voting for the services of the FBI. You also admitted it in your question. But there is no doubt that we need accelerating in this direction too, and we will continue to work. With regard to the application of Article 12 of Law No4387/2016, I should stress that ECA has informed us that, on the one hand, the application is ready for immediate implementation, in reply to your question, which I mentioned in my prototype, and on the other hand the cross-border pension payments have also been made through the information system ‘ERGANIS’ of DRC and TAXIS, have been found to the beneficiaries who receive a widow’s pension after three years who are working, working or receiving any pension and therefore the relevant cuts have to be applied. However - you also write it in your question - there will be undue payments of money. For these amounts, the citizens concerned will be informed of the issue by letters sent soon and therefore the overall picture is rather different from that described in your written question, namely that there is no design on the part of the Ministry of Labour and the ECA. Finally, with regard to the award of supplementary pensions due to the death of an insured or pensioner, the responsible Directorate-General has given the relevant instructions, observations and corrections to the contracting company which has undertaken the implementation of the project and is soon expected to complete the project. I cannot tell you anything binding here, but we are working in this direction. In conclusion, I would like to point out something that I said at the beginning of my dentistry, that although we are in the midst of a pandemic, which has tested both the economic and the operational skills of the state, the Ministry of Labour and the government as a whole continue unequivocally towards the digitisation of the state and its services, with the immediate aim of reducing bureaucracy and suffering. In this context, new software applications are constantly being developed, so that more and more parts of insurance legislation are applied digitally and at all levels. Just in this sense, the implementation of "myEFKAlive", which was presented just last Wednesday, namely two days ago, the Minister of Labour Mr. Kostis Hatzidakis and the Minister of Digital Governance Mr. Kyriakos Pierracakis along with the administration of Efka. This application is a new alternative channel of communication and service for citizens by ETUC officials through a teleconference. Using this application, the citizen can be served for a number of certificates and transactions with EVA without having to go to the nearest branch of the organisation. In general terms, the reform and modernisation of the ECA is the strategic choice of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Citizens have the right to be served quickly and effectively in this direction and we are working and we will continue to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u55	The wrongly paid in instalments, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u56	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much and good to both of you. We are now moving on to the second with number 961/19-7-2021, a timely question for the first cycle of SYRIZA's MP, Mr. Konstantinos Markos, to the Minister of Digital Governance, on the subject: "Great concerns after the abolition of the Kalavryton House". Good morning, Mr. Marcus, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u58	Good morning, Mr President, thank you very much. Good morning, Minister. Let's start over. The reform you are implementing, even late, is a continuation of yet another flagship reform of the previous government, the SYRIZA government. This reform did in fact provide that the country's mortgages would be phased out and their responsibilities would be transferred to local property offices. The gradual abolition of mortgages was in line with the progress of real estate and other important parameters of the current structures, such as the evolution of real estate, the digitisation of the archives of the mortgages to be abolished, the number of operations already carried out electronically and the inclusion of economic and operational elements of the structures under dismantling. The above are elements that the author of Law 4512/2018 himself had foreseen as essential related criteria for deciding on the abolition of mortgages. We have asked for these figures twice with our respective questions. You answered us three or four days ago, but because of the lack of loose ends, that is why I insisted on today's question. So what is the number of operations already carried out electronically and at what stage is the ownership and digitisation of the archives of the jurisdictional area of the Kalavryton Mortgage? The answer is that it is rather zero and that is because the area in question is in real estate, and not even the first suspension has been completed so far. Finally, I must say something else, Minister: No 4512/2018 had left a loose end, as is often the case in legislation. This was the provision of a non-installation of a property office in Kalavrita. You had two years to restore this loose end and you didn't. With the opportunity given by Stepma, I invite you, even now, to establish a real estate office in the historic municipality of Kalavryton. Besides, the Municipality of Kalavryton himself has proposed to you that you place real estate and staff for the operation of the real estate office. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u59	Thank you too, Mr Marcus. The Deputy Minister of Digital Governance will answer Mr. George Stylos. Mr. Stile, you have three minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. I understand the point you have raised. I have dealt with this issue quite a bit. And in my office, there has been a meeting with the Kalavryton Bar Association and the Mayor of Kalavryton, and this issue has also been raised with the administration of the Land register. We then proceeded to the decision on the merger of the two mortgages, the Aegean and the Kalavrytas, and the creation of the real estate office of the branch of Aegiale-Aegean, in which the two specific mortgages were held. There's been a conversation again. We had a televised conference with the same bodies and representatives from the region, that is, they were the president of the agricultural club, the mayor and other representatives from the region. They were the directors responsible from the Stock Exchange, the Director-General, the Director-General of the Stock Exchange. It's not a matter of opening or closing a desk. We have a major reform that was foreseen in No 4512/2018. It is a law of the previous government, and on the basis of this law it was provided in a table just which real estate offices will be set up and which mortgages will be merged. There will be seventy-five branches in total in the country and seventy-nine in the country, which will be in the seats of each region. Therefore, in 2018 in that law in the table, it was foreseen that these two offices would be merged. The circumstances have changed from 2018 to today to sit down and say that we have changed the data, that we have more movement in this office, so is there any reason to review those Parliament's legislative decisions? In our assessment, and in the assessment of the operator of the register, the data have not changed. To date we have about two to three transactions a day. Does the file work in the Kalavrita? It runs two days a week, every Tuesday and Friday from 8.00 a.m. to 14.00 a.m. at noon scheduled, with a date. We're also in pandemic conditions, so for other reasons there was a date. So are citizens, scientists, professionals, lawyers, engineers, from that mortgage room? In the opinion of the operator, that service is provided. So I'm telling you, we can give it to the world. An application can be made for what a person needs when he goes to a real estate office or a mortgage office either to submit a document or to submit a contract whose submission can be made electronically or to request the issue of a certificate. These services are currently provided electronically, digitally from a distance. They might have them in the Kalavrytas too. What service can only be given to the world? It's the file search. That's why the natural file exists and it's in Kalavrita, and the act has shown that so far the service is done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Minister. Mr Marcus, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u62	Minister, thank you for closing your answer because it enables me to see what you have just described. So let's be a little practical. Let's assume you're a publicist or even a better lawyer authorized by a Kalavryan citizen. A customer visits you in your office and asks you to carry out a survey of the books of the Kalavritan Municipality's mortgage house and to request some certificates and some copies of notarial acts. So listen to the steps you must take as a lawyer. Case of work. The next morning from your commander's visit you call the mortgage office, which is open, as you said, two days a week, Tuesday and Friday. So let's say that today you call for the date, which is closed - if you're lucky, we always get the best versions - for the next Friday. It should be noted that every trader, even professionals of the place, is obliged to complete his search within an hour, i.e. every appointment is strictly hourly. Now we get the optimistic scenario, the well-preferred scenario, and assume that within one hour you have completed the investigation and that if the investigation is not over, it must be booked again for next week. But we said we were going to the optimistic scenario. As you need, let's assume, a copy of a contract or a certificate, you need to leave the Kalavrita, travel up to the saint - I'm just saying, Minister, I'm not saying you should go, because it's not a journey - and you should put the application there. Since it is August and you are flexible as a lawyer and the trials are limited, go on Monday 2 August to travel Kalavrita - Holy - Kalavrita. You file the application and they inform you that the contract will be ready after two days. So the certificate - because it's how it works - will be ready after seven days. So you are a reasonable man and now decide on August 7 to travel back to Holy to receive both the contract and the certificate together. So we say: On 22 July you were assigned a normal legal order, which you completed until two months ago in three days' time, at the cost of the administrative, merged, fees, etc., while you now need the optimistic scenario of eighteen days, a two-and-a-half-kilometre dispute on a difficult road network, lost work hours at the wheel and a lot of extra costs. Minister, in the interest of the scenario I have developed for you, because I think you are not from the theoretical point of view, but are you a practical person, tell me: All this absurdity, why is it in the Kalavritas? Since your partners have informed you, have they not read the 2018 law, which sets out specific criteria - I refer to your last intervention - after whose mortgages could be closed, such as the Kalavryans? Didn't your partners tell you that the area of Aegialia and the Kalavryta is under real estate and has not even been the first posted? Do you not know that the objection procedure will follow after the first post and then the second post? Haven't you been told or have you learned that until those days come, it is not possible to use the electronic services of the Land Office, as they exist and are used in other areas, such as the Municipality of Patras? I look forward to your answer with interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Mr Marcus. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u64	Certification is a process that is under way in the country, where we own 60% of the country. The stadiums are like you said. The uninstitutional stage is the pre-institutionalisation, the institutionalised stage is the suspension. With the completion of the post and the acceptance by the owner of the report by the real estate office, i.e. by the contractor, not by the register, the completion of the archive is complete, and that is where we can actually have digital and electronic services. What are we not providing in this area at the moment? It's the remote research you can have from anywhere seven days a week, twenty-four hours a day and you can have it not only for the region of Kalavryta and Egypt, but for all of Greece. There is another service, "Theasis", where you can see on the map, which is the Greek Google map, the Greek map that has been made by the Hellenic Register. These electronic services are not currently available, because in this area the realisation is under way. But to come to an example, which you mentioned, I said in my first place that someone can apply electronically and ask for a certificate. This certificate will be received in the Kalavritas on the days when the office is open. So he doesn't have to go to the saint to make the application and come back. If he wants to deposit a contract, this service is provided electronically. He can file it electronically and get the receipt, returning to the Kalavrytas again. The mission is done in a few seconds. The audit to be carried out by the veterinary office takes a few days. So it does not appear that we will go to the eighteen days, to the front - up - down, nor to the extra financial burden and suffering of the world for moving to a difficult road network, which I understand and recognize. What do we want? We want to reduce suffering. We want people to get time. We want citizens to do their trade at a much lower cost. Professionals for their scientific work will receive it, whether in the way described by you or the one we say, and we expect that we will implement it very quickly. That is why we have raised speeds. We speed up all the procedures that run at the same time in the Hellenic Register, that is to say, the transformation and the creation of the new organisation and the digitisation and the provision of many services. Each month they add two or three offices to the institution. Every month we add other digital services to the operating register. Not where he's not been real estate. That's why we speed up the realisation. Yesterday there was the first debate in Parliament at first reading in a bill that is really innovative and reformative. I urge you and the other parties to watch and contribute. This will end two years earlier the realisation, so that we can reach the goal of providing the world with electronic and digital services. So we work in that direction too. It's not that real estate is going at the rate it's been going all the previous years. I'm opening a parentheses to explain this. The Register started in 1995 with Law 2308/1995 and we have arrived today after twenty-five, twenty-six years to have a 35% register on the territory of the country. If we go with the logic that we've worked over the past few years, we'll need twice as much. We're gonna need seventy years to finish the register. With the law that we bring, which is an optimistic hope for the whole world and for the Kalavrytas, the realisation will end two years earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr. Stile. Have a good day to both of you. We move to the third under No 963/19-7-2021 for a top-level question from the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Civil Protection, on "Direct problems in Alikarnassos prisons". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you know that prison problems were already accumulated before the pandemic. The pandemic has raised them to a heightened extent, as they are today. With reference to Alikarnassos prisons, I have to tell you that the main of these concerns staffing, since they have been recruited since 2001. Some of the officials who had been transferred from the municipal police returned in accordance with procedures legislated by the parliament and thus subscribing well holds. At the same time there is a relative overpopulation of prisoners, which leads to many problems. We have an increase in violence, we have accidents at work, we have inappropriate facilities at the same time. Expansion into inappropriate areas to house services, such as the technical service that the administration intends to house in an inappropriate area will create problems. You have been sent by the association and by the President of the House, analyzing the problems and I would like to see if you have already dealt with these issues and what solutions you intend to give, both in relation to staffing and the improvement of conditions and maintenance of the building. If there's any prospect of decongestion. In some prisons there was a development. I do not know, for example, whether Drama has entered into power in order to enable other prisons to be dismantled. An important issue, which exists and I think that for the public it is unjustified, is the delay in paying recruits. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The Minister for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou, will answer. Mr. Economou, you have three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. MEP, while carefully studying the content of the question under discussion, I note that all the issues raised through it, on the occasion of the Alikarnassos detention store, are the core of the daily efforts of the services and the political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection in order to seek operational solutions to the time-consuming problems encountered in the way our country's penitentiary system operates. It is time to describe the facts as they are. Indifference, lack of determination and mismanagement, the penitentiary system has been thinking for years, helping to create an image that did not honor our country internationally. The confessed legitimate concern on the part of workers expressed through the National Representation to resolve a series of chronic malfunctions in the area of detention stores, I would like to assure you that it is perfectly understandable and at the same time, for all of us, it is an additional strong reason to intensify the entire important effort that we are constantly doing from 2019 until today. In view of these more general points, I should like to refer to the individual issues raised by the content of this topical question, particularly regarding the Alikarnassus detention store. Starting from the burning issue of staffing the Alikarnassos detention store, I would like to inform you that constant efforts are being made to ensure that all other booking shops are fully staffed as well as the necessary staff of all the necessary specialties for its proper operation. Already in the framework of the 2018 notice, a staff member of the Medical and Physical Training Division was appointed and two staff members of the secondary care sector are expected to be appointed. The planned joint ministerial decision under Article 72(5) of Law 4795/2021, which concerns up to three hundred and eleven employees in all detention stores in the country, has already been signed by the Minister of Home Affairs and the Deputy Minister of Finance and by me. I would also like to stress that at our request on 27 April 2021 to ASAP, 11 places were asked to be opened for the Alikarnassos detention store to fill up the services there. A position of the administrative accounting industry, a position of the medical and nursery training industry, a position of the administrative accounting secondary sector, five post of the secondary guarding sector and three posts of the external guarding secondary education sector. As you can see, we will soon have a substantial strengthening of the human resources that serves in Alikarnassus's penitentiary structure. This initiative forms part of the framework of actions for the proclamation of three hundred and eighty-eight persons of various specialties for all detention stores in the territory. The gleaming of the coronary pandemic on a global scale, as we have repeatedly pointed out from Parliament's Step, has so far been admittedly fierce. The constant threat of the dispersion of COVID -19 was a parameter that forced the political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection to partial redefinition of the priorities of the penitentiary policy, putting the cover of new emergencies in the health protection of workers and detainees at the heart of our actions and necessarily transferring some government actions in the area of penitentiary action later than their initial set timing. We have tried to protect the penitentiary structures of COVID -19 through the provision of the necessary health protection material for workers and prisoners, while at the same time making available all the necessary credits and materials that would ensure the continuation of the proper operation of detention stores at this very difficult time for all of us. For the purpose of providing you with more complete information, I will provide indicative documents in the Minutes concerning the types of health protection and the costs approved from January 2020 until today for the Alikarnassos detention store, which amount to EUR 1,165.346 for a number of materials and services, including computer purchase, maintenance of heating and water infrastructure, supply of fuel, purchase of other materials and equipment necessary for the operation of that booking shop. At the same time, a CITROEN passenger vehicle was secured and provided for the needs of the external guard, which is serving there, while the efforts to secure other vehicles we are planning to make available where required. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Citizen Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou, submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] To conclude, I would like to point out that, as in almost all the detention shops in the country, there is no doubt at all that the existing building infrastructure needs rehabilitation and upgrading interventions. Some repairs and work on oil colouring, replacement of tiles and sanitary articles have already been carried out, as well as actions to improve the conditions of detention in prison cells. However, there is room for additional initiatives in this direction, which makes it necessary to intensify our cooperation with relevant bodies such as the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, in order to speed up the procedures for the approval of the necessary repairs, which must be implemented immediately. But I would remind the House here of what I have mentioned at times and in Parliament that the difficulties in making various repair work in detention stores are known, since much of them were classified as arbitrary constructions and we have lately completed the process of legalising them so that they can proceed more easily with such repair procedures. Thank you very much, and I will continue in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr. Economou. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. The latter, of course, does not apply to structures which are before 1955, not even to private individuals. But it is good to settle and comply with the regulations. Minister, no one doubts that action is being taken, certain actions, that efforts are being made, some attempts are being made. But what exists as an estimate is that two years after the transfer to the Ministry of Protection from the Ministry of Justice, we did not see that design and that operational action that would make the difference. Because you know there was and there's still a lot of discussion about whether the penitentiary system should have been left in the Ministry of Justice or you. I'll tell you my personal opinion. In relation to dealing with problems because I think the Ministry of Justice is more theoretical, I thought that the Ministry of Civil Protection which is directly involved in operational action would be more effective. Unfortunately, despite your actions, which cannot be zeroed, there has been no such result. You need to step up the effort. It is important that the problems that have been accumulated are crucial and must now be tackled. On staffing, you said about the famous 6K/2018. Three predicted. One of them has worked, but he was already a contractor, so he didn't actually increase the potential. The other one hasn't shown up and the nurse you referred to has resigned. So we have no effect on that. You said quite rightly that you asked for a new notice from the AACC. But it's not in line with the perspective. When we have so many problems that will increase in the next period, the eleven positions you have mentioned are good but not enough. They should have the prospect, because that will happen after a couple of years. So it should be the number quite bigger. I therefore believe that there should not be this backward examination of things. We'll have to watch forward. The increase in people who are currently in prison services is necessary and, of course, in Alikarnassos with the specific figures I have told you, because they manage other services, such as the juvenile shop that these people are. They also have external guards. I would ask you, if this is possible, to double your proposal and your request to the AACC for the notice it will make. I now come to the issue of maintenance, and I believe that you should make use of the potential of our institutional framework for cooperation with the region or the municipality through a programme convention to be effective in implementing conservation through a specific plan, which I think can be better implemented in this way. The third thing I would like to insist on is the pandemic. What for? Because yesterday we had a debate and there is a whole debate about the mandatoryity of the vaccine. Let us say that the penitentiary officials were the ones who asked for priority vaccination, they were the ones who did not need a law to be passed to ask for it. However, there were problems there with regard to the rate of vaccination. It is, of course, also the special nature of coexistence with detainees with problems, with people who have issues with regard to underlying illnesses and others. The result must be achieved, Mr Minister, immediately. They can't have any jobs pending. People other than that their work has been greatly intensified, cannot have a rest and a day off because of the small number in the Alikarnassos prisons, they do not enjoy both the trouble and the hard work of their work. For the public - I say again - that is unacceptable. I therefore call for your greatest interest in the Alikarnassus prisons and obviously for all prisons, in order to assess what is being done today and the next period to show that the choice to transfer the penitentiary system to the Ministry of Civil Protection was correct. You have to prove that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr Kegeroglu. Mr. Economou has the floor. I think the last one is the most interesting. The rest you've told us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. MEP, I have noted with particular attention and your proposal for cooperation with the municipality and the region at local level to deal with problems repairably and a number of others which the municipality and the region could also offer at the detention store in Alikarnassos, which is a key, most important and very important store in relation to its role in the country's penitentiary system. With regard to your reference to the government's strategic choice to transfer the General Secretariat of Crime Policy from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Public Order, I am pleased that you are in agreement in principle. However, I would not like to paradoxically refer to what we received from the General Secretariat for Crime Policy, because it is important to move forward and not to be attached to the past. However, important steps are taking place. We are setting the foundations that were not there to build a solid structure in the country's penitentiary system that can, in fact, show the image inside and outside, the one that suits a modern democratic country, a member of the European Union and not have the strict criticism that has previously existed both from the Council of Europe and from other international organisations. With regard to a number of issues that you have raised with regard to penitentiaries and guardians, I will fully agree with you on the effort they are making and the high sense of responsibility shown by their overwhelming majority in serving, in fact, through a great sense of duty, the country's penitentiary system under very difficult conditions, lacking many times and basic rights of workers, such as their permits, their days off, etc. At this point I would like to inform you that we are already working with the Ministry of Finance on a legislative initiative which will provide a solution to a long-term issue concerning the non-payment of compensation for accrued allowances, days off work and extra work. It is a lot since 2016 unpaid and we are in the process, and I think that very soon we will be able to bring relevant legislative initiative to the House and I hope it will be supported by all the wings. Also, what you mentioned in the desire of the penitentiary officials to be vaccinated really, and we must point that out, was a group of workers who, from the outset, had asked for a large majority to be vaccinated. We have promoted these requests to the National Committee for Vaccines, but as you know, its priorities are set by the National Committee for Vaccines on its own scientific criteria. But I can tell you that on the basis of the results of yesterday's debate, because we have made considerable progress on the issue of vaccination for both prisoners and prisoners, even yesterday, we had four thousand and fifty two vaccinated by a total of about six thousand people who have asked for vaccination. We are going there quite well, stable and without any particular problems. With regard to the issue of overpopulation, which has been observed over time in our country's penitentiary structures, it has been discussed several times in the context of parliamentary control. Every day, we are attempting to make combined interventions based on two main axes. On the one hand, we are examining and exploiting all kinds of measures available for the rational distribution of detainees to the detention stores in the country with a view to protecting their lives and health. This is achieved either through the Central Transport Committee or through the provision of emergency transport where necessary. On the other hand, we are intensified by the daily efforts we are making to strengthen the capacity of existing penitentiary shops. Already in Nigrita and Chania, additional wings of detainees have been put into operation with a total capacity of forty-forty. The upcoming operation of the Drama detention store as well as the relocation of the Korydallos detention store, the Ioannina and Chalkida detention store, the completion of Crete 2 in Lasithi and the creation of a new booking store in Megalopolis will contribute to the more rational distribution of the detainees in the future. Inside, therefore, we are gradually aiming to reverse the chronic pathogenicity of overcrowding by achieving declining the phenomenon, without, however, rediscovering the serious consequences of public security that accompanied legislative initiatives in the country's previous governance. Despite the difficulties we remain faithful to our strategic goal of modernising and upgrading the way in which the penitentiary structures in our country operate. Our constant pursuit remains a Greek penitentiary system far more upgraded and functional than we have received. In this direction we will focus further on our efforts to upgrade and modernise the existing infrastructure of detention stores and equipment at their disposal in the day-to-day performance of their duties. At the same time, it will continue to be our predominant expectation of strengthening and rationalisation of the human resources that work in our country's penitentiary structures. The effort we are making through lasting, strong interventions to rationalise the functioning of the penitentiary system is a sufficient basis for creating conditions for the composition of all those who are sincerely interested in the structures of penitentiary in our country, to move with a common aim in a spirit of consensus and understanding on all the issues that we have now developed, but in particular those of equal importance, such as post-institutional care and the social reintegration of detainees, to which there can still be significant progress. In this respect, we are already in a phase that we are really trying to take the first steps towards effective integration of those who are released into normality and social life. To this end, we are firmly moving towards a concrete strategy that has been developed with realism and within the narrow financial margins which, as we all know, exist within a long period of financial and budgetary crisis, so that our country will soon have a structure of counter-crime and penitentiary policy worthy of a modern European state which remains true to the principles of liberalism, security, justice and is fighting against any discrimination and exclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Economou. Have a good day to both of you. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-23-S1-commons.u74	With the agreement of the House at 11.15 p.m., the sitting is closed for Monday, July 26, 2021 at 12.00 at noon, on the subject of the proceedings of the House: a) a draw before the House between the members of the Council of State of Ice and the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, in accordance with the special agenda, b) parliamentary scrutiny, topical debate and c) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda to be distributed.
