ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 8-6-2021 power, the minutes of the PLAC Session of Tuesday, June 8, 2021, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: “Definition of the Act of Legislative Content of 30.5.2021 “Statification, content and procedure for the adoption of Digital Certificate COVID -19” (A'87) and more specific safeguards for the protection of personal data” were confirmed by the Bureau.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the following: Today we will be discussing the number. Question No 847/6-2021 topical and urgent debate 851/21-10-2020 and 482/514/8-32021 questions in the circle of petitions - questions, which will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs Mr Domna - Maria Michaelidou. We are now moving on to the first with number 847-6-2021 in the first cycle of MP B2' Western Athens Department of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Strengthening of benefits to blind scientists and lawyers". Mr Arseni, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, in his document by the Secretary-General of Social Solidarity and Combat Poverty, since February 2020, he has been establishing the reduction of the blindness allowance received by retired lawyers, blind men, who continue to practice their profession, as the law gives them. This is done in the midst of the pandemic. The reduction is important, from EUR 697 to EUR 362. This allowance has been introduced in 1973 and its aid with the years was deemed appropriate, as with other allowances, to reach 697 euros. Each blind scientist was awarded to deal with the obvious additional costs incurred by the exercise of special knowledge as a biopolitic profession. What do these people need? To be clear and to the citizens who are listening to us. They need an assistant for the reading of libraries, Braille books, recording materials, etc., which, since the 1990s, the law has provided for them. In other words, it provides for these extra needs to be met so that these few people in our society are not allowed to go into the margin simply because they are blind. Now, the affected citizens have appealed against the decisions of the OPEKA and have been vindicated. Those who appealed were entitled and the amount was adjusted. They also appealed to the Citizen’s Counselor, who also justified them. In particular, it states that the document of the Secretary-General, without having the characteristics of a regulatory administrative act, was not published in an FEK, interprets the existing legislation improperly and reduces that allowance. It is said by the Citizens' Counsel and goes on to say that it ignores the purpose for which the allowance was introduced, which also justifies its greatest amount of support, and creates a new inequality because it differentiates blind lawyers into two categories, without providing for this by the Ministry of Justice of 1973, to the active and retired persons who continue to practice the law. At the same time, their needs to cover additional costs from the exercise of the profession remain. While a year has elapsed from the positive decisions on the appeals of the OPEKA committees - and I mention them to you, Minister, since you will be asking me why I am coming back for the third and fourth time, because time is passed, the decisions are clear and you are ignored as government - and it is about a very vulnerable social group, the blind lawyers, who will suddenly have neither the light of them nor will they be able to function equally and independently, while it is about a small number of citizens who, through your movement, do not save funds or rationalise practices, while it creates blind persons of many fast-tracked unequal treatment, reducing to some of them the amount recognised in full by the others who practice the same profession, the fighting lawyer, so that the Government does not show any social person who has the title of the Secretary-General, nor can it be made available to the authorities responsible for the decisions of the administrative bodies responsible. We ask you when you will change that decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis. Mr Domna - Maria Michailidou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arseni, you are right, you come back and you come back for this particular question. That, you know, has a positive reading and a positive reading is that you are so pleased with the government's work, where you come for the same questions, which our government has certainly answered, but since no news arises, you are coming back with the same questions. And what do I remind you? I would remind you of a question from my colleague, Mr Apatzidis, and I imagine that I answered as much as I had to. I would also remind myself of my answer a few days ago, just in the same question, to another member of the Change Movement. So yes, repetition may be necessary as I understand it, but it still means that the government's work covers you almost entirely to come back with the same questions, but let me answer that again, so that I do not leave any ambiguity to our fellow citizens. I will say, Mr Arsenis, that you are using words that are not correct. You say we're making a reduction. There has been no change in disability benefits, but if not upwards, for years. You're using another word that's again impatient. Decisions, we don't respect, he says, decisions. Obvious judgments are not judicial decisions, as you have written in your question. Counselor didn't send us any decisions. I would like you to see the documents you have in your hands before me and see that we are not talking about any judicial decision or of course about a decision by the Citizens' Counselor, in which, of course, we should comply if that was the case. I will start by saying that rationalising benefits in no country of law is a vengeance and obviously not ours. What is the rationalisation of social policy? It is about the state doing everything in its power, so that no citizen gets more, but not less than what he is entitled to. That is why today we have technology on our side, so that the controls imposed on a rule of law will ensure that no citizen gets any more, but above all no less than what he is entitled to, these checks are now carried out with the help of technology. And that's exactly what OPECA did, who started crossings with HICP. What started to cross-reference? Beneficiaries of invalidity allowance, in particular the beneficiaries of the blindness allowance, with the beneficiaries of disability pensions. In other words, HICP has checked whether today's legislation is followed, so that we do not have disabled rights beneficiaries who, as laid down by the law, do not receive at the same time any different disability pensions from those laid down by the law. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] So, what happened there? OPEKA did sixteen thousand checks. Within these sixteen thousand checks on the beneficiaries of a blindness allowance, he found a hundred and eighty-nine pensioners. The eighty-nine pensioners were retired, who received an allowance different from what they were entitled to. What does the joint ministerial decision to which you referred? It says that the blindness allowance for those who work and those who are not working and who are retired is at EUR 362. This is for workers and retired persons with blindness. What does the law in particular define? The law stipulates, I repeat only for workers who are either scientists and professionals, according to their science, or are lawyers, that this allowance is at EUR 697. However, the law does not define anything more for those who are retired. Pensioners shall be entitled to an allowance of EUR 362. So what's OPEKA coming up and saying? I'm applying the law. What's the law? Equality between pensioners and workers. The law is very clear about the special allowance received by those who work, and are either scientists who practice their profession or are lawyers. Let us now come to the point: the state has of course taken care, and quite rightly and correctly it has done, of giving pension rights to our blind fellow citizens who practice their profession after 15 years of work. After 15 years of work, therefore, the state has made sure that they get the full pension right. And what's more, and that's right, the state? These pensioners blind who have the right to retire after 15 years of work can in a match with other Greeks receive 100% of their pension. So what you claim, Mr Arseni, and which your partner and colleague, Mr Apatzides, claimed is to go against legislation, to create at least an inconsistency between pensioners and workers. It's not something the law specializes. It is something that OPEKA, along with HICP and the electronic controls, now able to carry out, ensures that there is legal certainty. So that is why we are here to discuss it, as we have of course said with the Citizens' Counselor in his letter and not in his decision. And in the complaints, OPEKA has, of course, requested a review. I repeat, the alleged action in any case is not a judicial decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u5	Here, Mr Arsenis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, what I want to understand is this: these citizens' appeals against the OPECA are valid? Were the amounts adjusted after these actions? The Citizens' Counselor has made about a year ago a document saying that the Secretary-General's decision was wrong or not? If we have access to this document, don't your services have? Do you expect the Citizen's Counselor to send this to you? Don't you have access? Only the rest of the citizens, the rest of the 11 million citizens have access to this document? With regard to the FEK, the Joint Ministerial Decision of 2008, does it not clearly say that the allowance for those exercising science as employees and as retired persons, that is to say, pensioners who have proved to be law-abiding? Yes or no? Is the decision, the Secretary-General's document violating this CRA? Yes or no? Anyway, how can the Citizen's Counselor come out and say it clearly, have clear decisions on OPEKA's objections and, as you yourself said, can we come to this Chamber again and again, whether I or other colleagues, and ask the same questions? I have brought this issue at least three times and we get the same answer, despite the fact that decisions are increasing. What you lack is to send you the document of the Citizen's Counsellor? Because if you want, I can tell you this today. Tell us what it is that needs to be done to get that decision back. There are laws laying down what is true of retired people who are employed and what is true of those who are not retired. Pensioners employed when they are blind continue to have specific problems, i.e. needs, which would not be problems if the government could cover them in this case. We are asking for nothing but equal treatment for these people, whether they are retired or not, with the rest of the citizens who are equivalent pensioners or who do the same work. That's what we're asking. Their needs have not been reduced because they have become retired, they have not seen their lights, they have not resolved their needs for support from people who can help them, whether in reading the file either in the Braille system or whatever they need to do. The fact, Minister, that you see so many people coming to this Chamber on this issue, for so many people, who do not seem to have any vote for a hundred and eighty-nine citizens, half of whom have been justified, is injustice. The injustice is the terrible and unprecedented. That is why I would ask you to take a real look at the matter, read the decision of the Citizens' Counselor, as well as the decisions against the appeals and change this decision of the Secretary-General. There is no need for this stubbornness, because it is a stubbornness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis. Mrs Michalidou, although you were very informative of your prototype, please now answer Mr Arsenis if this is a stubbornness or not. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arseni, what I would like to ask of you would be to be consistent in your function. It is very important that you can understand that the appeal is different from the judicial proceedings. It is also very important to understand that the assessment of the Citizens' Counsel is different from that of the Counsellor. Both are distinct procedures. I imagine, or at least I hope as a citizen, and not as a State Secretary, that you can assess the difference between the two different sets of judgments, between the judgment and the assessment in one case of a preliminary ruling and a judicial decision. It's two different things. This is also a court judgment. So, what we're saying is we're not breaking anything. What we do is apply the rule of law. What does legislation say first and foremost? It says that for all our fellow citizens who have blindness, according to CEPD, the blindness allowance is at EUR 362, whether they work or not. In particular, the law stipulates that when they work, not when they are retired, this allowance is doubled. This is what happens when they are lawyers or scientists, who practice their science. When these people are now retired, their main status is that of the retired person. So what are they doing? They receive the allowance initially defined and specialise secondaryly in legislation, i.e. the allowance of EUR 362. What has he done - and quite rightly - for them? It has ensured that their accessibility is somewhat assisted by the state, these people who are blindly retired have the right to retire at fifteen years and also, when they are retired, get 100% of their pension if they decide to work. The law does not specialize in this case in pensioners who retire in 15 years who receive the full pension nowhere getting a double allowance. This would be an injustice against all the rest of their retired fellow citizens blindly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Michaelidou. Then we will discuss the first question under number 851/21-10-20 of the circle of petitions - questions, MP B3' South Athens Sector of SYRIZA - Theanos Fotio to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Refusing for months to intervene, despite the repeated warnings of workers and SYRIZA, you condemn the 'Sicily' in final closure and children with mental disabilities in social isolation and marginalisation.' Mrs. Fotio, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, we have had to table a timely question about "Sikaryidio", because you have been disapproved to answer two questions, Members of SYRIZA, for over a year, one in May and the other in October 2020, on a subject that the President mentioned, that you refused to intervene for months and therefore condemned "Sikaryidio" and the children, the disabled with mental disabilities, social isolation and marginalisation. Since you took over, in 2019, the situation in "Sikiridio" has deteriorated appallingly. SYRIZA in 2015, 2017, with revisions in 2018 and 2019, had dealt with the liquidity issue of the Foundation, because the whole financial crisis of 2010-2014 created such a problem that depleted the entire assets of the institution. In 2015 we appointed a president and three members of the board of directors with a law that put the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Finance to be able to intervene, i.e. to be the institution under the direct supervision of the State, and we then exempted them from the presentation of tax and insurance information, etc., so that they can get the food from the EEAS, which you did until 30 June 2021. But, in 2019, you reduced the regular grant from the Ministry of Labour and you delayed giving it until October. In this period the debts had accumulated, while the workers remained unpaid. Following the payment of the grant, only insurance contributions were made. In 2020, too, you paid a very reduced regular grant. So the foundation is constantly with the threat of closing every day. At the moment, you have brought your tactics to despair the situation and in complete deadlock. Workers are unpaid for six months. Only the Easter gift has been paid for obvious reasons of legal sanctions if it was not paid. There is also a problem of failure to pay the dose. In 2019, SYRIZA had drawn up a bill to restore the ‘Sykianidei’ to the State, since the legal person under private law is now based on private resources. What did his founding act say? He said that if "Sikiridio" ceases to have the money and starts to need private resources, then he has to join the public. That was what his founding act said. Although everyone here knows it and all the parties consented to this amendment, the New Democracy also consented, unfortunately nothing happened. Today this demand is urgently made by the workers, by the Parents' Association, from POSGAMA, from the ESDP. So I ask you, Minister, again, why don't I do the timely one, why didn't you answer me twice? What are you going to do about the immediate exceptional support of the 'Sikaryidi' to cover its operating costs, to restore the risk of children being shut down and convicted of mentally disabled in isolation and social exclusion? Will you ensure that the provision for the conversion of the "Sikiridio" into an annex of the Attica Social Welfare Centre is directly included in a bill? You've all agreed here on this. Nothing has been done for a year, so that his problem can be solved with a generous grant, for accession to be completed, extending the deadline for exemption from the production of tax and insurance information. In the meantime, that is, until this law is done, we must make it possible for people to collect their ECYY hospitals, because otherwise they cannot, so that the institution can function until then.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mrs. Fotio. It has the floor for the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Mrs Domna - Maria Michailidou, to answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Fotou, I listened carefully and I read your questions accordingly. If I did not know firsthand what is going on in "Sikiridio", as I know about our other institutions, public or private law, I must admit that there is a disaster before the gates. I would consider reading and listening to you that "Sikiridio" closes or even more, that "Sikiridio" has already been closed and that hundreds of children with mental disabilities are condemned by our Government to social isolation and marginalisation. I shall start my answer from your last question, the fourth question, on the situation in the institution and the actions that have since been launched from our side. In the fourth, then, and last, you ask: "Do you realize..." is the Minister aware that, with its indifference, the "Sikaryidio" in shutdown condemns the particularly vulnerable children with mental discomfort who benefit from his services in certain isolation and marginalisation? Mrs Fotou, I now think you know from your experience that social sensitivity does not characterize either you or your party around. It is your right to disagree with our Ministry's policies and actions, but this is different from attacking indifference. Because that is how you become truly unreliable, because our actions are disgusting to you. From this step I want to be clear and absolute: Whatever happens, whether you close the "Sikaryidio" or do not close the "Sikaryidio", we as a government and as a Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will do whatever goes through our hand so that the children who benefit from his services continue to receive the same - if not better - services every day. However, I would like to be clear and absolute, the 'Sikiridio' is not going to be closed. I now come to your other questions, starting with the second, concerning the conversion of the "Sicily" by a legal person of private law into a legal person governed by public law. You also know that he started his course in ^39 as a legal person governed by public law, then became non-profit making, in '55, private law, and today he acts as an Open Care Center offering services to children and other adult groups with mental discomfort. The problems in his operation began in 2012, where for a few months he was suspended. Nevertheless, and by 2015, he did it. He made some cuts, as far as I know, to staff, to services, to a reduction in the number of beneficiaries, and by using his reserves he managed to fulfil his obligations. Unfortunately, however, in 2016 problems grew. The Foundation was unable to meet its needs. The wages were slowing down. Insurance contributions were not reimbursed and the debts increased. In 2017, Ms. Fotou, the board of directors resigned and the workers were prejudicial, after four months had remained unpaid. In its publication, ‘KATHMERINI’, specifically on 22 April 2017, referred to debts of EUR 3250000 of the insurance funds to the ‘Sikiaridion’, for services provided to the caretakers. The information was provided by the then Deputy Chief of State, Karamero, who appealed to the Ministry's political leadership in 2017 at the time. I think the leadership of the Ministry of Labour in 2017 is right in front of me. What did the Vice-President ask for? To ensure that the debts of the insurance funds to the institution are repaid, that the employees - 2016, 2017 - are paid out for a new administration and that a sustainable solution is found. About the same thing you're telling us today. And what am I asking, Mrs. Fire? I ask the following simple thing: since this was the solution - I will tell you in my dentistry what the solution is - to transform the "Sicily" Foundation into a legal person governed by public law, to become - I imagine - a part of the Social Welfare Centre of the Attica Region, and since the problems were the same and older in all previous years, from 2016 to 2019, when you left the Ministry, and the solution you had so clear and effective in your mind, why didn't you do so then? I repeat, since this was the solution, all these years that you have been at the Ministry - I say to you, I do not believe that this is the solution - why have you not done so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Michaelidou. Here, Mrs. Fotio, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u14	Madam Secretary, the triple-graduate answer as government, and you personally learned that lesson with three answers. What are the three answers? You don't have social sensitivity alone. We've got it, too! Who talked about social sensitivity? I'm talking about politics. Politics! Stop it. As to the second "after you knew, why didn't you do it?", we knew it, we understood it, we made it, and I was, of course, where I built it. When the time came when the whole proposal was completed, we handed it over to you and agreed to all the parties in this House. Look, this country has been governed for forty years by the right and its cooperation. SYRIZA had to do it all in the four years he'd ruled! Shame on you! Third, Mrs. Michaelidou, did I understand right? Did you say ‘if it closes or does it not close the Sikiaridion’? You said that phrase?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u15	I said very clearly that it will not be closed. Read the Minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u16	You'll answer your dentistry!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u17	Mrs. Michailidou, she didn't interrupt you. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u18	You said 'if closed or not closed'. I'm telling you, your alas if it closes. I'm also telling you that "Sikiridio" obviously has the ability to continue working. We also faced the same problems in 2015 and 2017. Didn't I say so, Mr. President? Didn't I mention exactly what we were doing with the knife in the neck every time to pay them? You knew this from the first moment, I delivered it to you, and I came here, and I said it a hundred times! So I say that we then managed to sign a programme contract with the Mayor of Amarousi, Mr Patoulis, in 2017, for the concession of space. So, what did we think? Oh, boy! We should give the Foundation space - because it has many and nice - to the Municipality of Amarousios, Mr. Patoulis, to make a CDI, a Day Care Forum, i.e. a Creative Day-time Centre for Disabled Children. Why is that? Because then it would receive substantial sums from the NSRF and at least immediately could solve this problem. We then made this contract in 2017, and the mayor had to start making it. This programming contract we made then, in 2017, and with the next, with his successor, ended. It ended in May of 2021. However, since its signing for two years neither the former Mayor, Mr Patulis, nor his successor, Mr. Ampatzoglou, have done something to implement this convention. Two months ago, work started in the building. All of us in this Chamber know that to do one thing, to finish the work, to enter the PSE - because that is what it is - it takes two years to get what we had as an idea. We did this, and not only did we, but also by law, allow legal persons of private law and public law to establish a CIF - for the first time in Greece - to get these subsidies and to be able to deal with a problem. You all visit it, you know it, but we give you specific information and you don't go one step further! Now I'm saying we handed you a lawsuit ready for the property of the institution, the whole file and the new administration filed it. So I ask you again: will you bring an amendment to the House to make the 'Sikiridio' legal person governed by public law, part of the Attica CFP? He can join it there. It will not be alone, a new legal person governed by public law. All Members of Parliament know about it, Mer25, the Greek Solution, the Change Movement, SYRIZA, you all know it and you agree - for a year now - that this is the solution and that there is no other solution. Please, Minister, leave them with respect to sensitivity. Leave everything you've been to all the institutions of the country and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u19	You raised the question, Mrs Fotou. We heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u20	You're right, Mr. President. Please answer the people. Answer me and answer people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much. We don't have to raise the tons. Besides, the day did not even start and you have so much trouble facing both of you in your work. Mrs. Michaelidou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u22	You're right, Mr. President. Mrs. Fotio, I'm starting with something I don't know why you probably didn't work out in space. The Sikiaridis - I was quite clear - will not let either my group or the Ministry or the government close down. There is a very clear wording in the Minutes. Please, if you didn't hear it then and you didn't hear it now, go back to them. In the Minutes of this sitting, there is twice my clear position that we will not let it close. So, please, very much, threats and smuggling of the 'alas' type and 'we will see' do not belong to Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u23	Are you going to tell me about tramps?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u24	Please, Mrs. Fotou! Let her finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u25	These trabucisms in this Parliament do not belong. I would like, Mrs Fotio, rather than having trabourisms within Parliament, to agree with us to condemn all kinds of trabucism and outside Parliament like the one that took place this morning in a child protection unit. So from this Step I invite you to condemn him as well, with me, to be all together against such tramps. If you want, read the news and see what happened in a child protective unit this morning. I would ask you very commonly to go out with the other parties and condemn them. Good. Now, with regard to the solution to Sikiaritan, I tell you again: why do I ask you to tell me why you did not do it for four and a half years when you were there? Why do I call you? Why, firstly, you have been four and a half years and, secondly - and more importantly - you seem to believe too much in this solution. We, Mrs Fotio, do not believe in this solution. We do not believe that Sikiaridion should be made public. The public is not the solution to all the problems that our country has. We do not think that the solution to "Sikiridio" is to become another public institution and that is why we have found another solution. Unlike previous governments, we have found a solution for "Sikiridio". Who's that? You say that you were okay and he was getting hospitals from EOPY the "Sikiridio". What kind of hospital was he taking, Mrs. Fotio? The 9 euros and 52 cents?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u26	The kid, the one!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u27	The kid, of course. Who? The team? It took 9 euros and 52 minutes. Do you know that by joining the Dispatch and Day Care Center, this hospital is quadrupled? So what's the solution? We do not prefer this ideologically, we do not favour it theoretically. We've done it. And you're all telling me "we know that he's doing something to join the NSRF for two years and." I don't know how much you know he's doing something to join the NSRF. We did, we finished, we didn't start two months ago. The building changes needed within “Sikiaridio” have been completed so that it can be licensed for a two-day and day-care centre and can quadruple its hospitals and have financial revenues so that they will make it a viable institution, a viable private legal person that is clearly supervised and controlled and assisted when needed by our Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Michaelidou. We keep the most important thing that it won't close. From there on, the others will be corrected. We continue with the same protagonists and with the second under number 4826/514/8-32021 question and application for documents from Parliament's cycle of petitions - questions B3 'South Athens Sector of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theanos Fotou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'To stop the asynchronous lies the leadership of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and apply SYRIZA's Law 4538/2018 on the assumption and adoption without obstacles, with absolute transparency and information.' Mrs. Fotio, we're starting with two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u29	Madam Secretary, three months ago, on 8 March 2021 Members of SYRIZA, we tabled a question and a request for documents to be filed, and then we complained that the Minister and you were falsely claiming everywhere in all the media that you established within one year on the basis of your programmed announcements, after decades of waiting, a new framework for acceptance and adoption. This lie has been proved by the EKKA's answer, which I have here, dated 16 March. So one week after we asked the question, forty MPs, three months ago, the EKRD answered you. Except you guys put the answer in the drawer and didn't send it. We have just made timely progress last week, because things have come to the point where they have arrived, you have had to send the decision of the EPC. So what does it say? It demonstrates the great lies of the government propaganda about supposedly a new framework and confirms our accusations that all you do not do, Mrs Michaelidou, is to implement the law that was passed in 2018 in good time. And she started off with a digital platform, here, the “Anynet”, since April 2019, just as the EKK says. What's he saying? "We note that from April 2019 onwards, the information system has been operating seamlessly and without any interruption." Only you have put the Prime Minister, one year later, in June 2020, inaugurated it again, and that is shameful for a Prime Minister. In any case, then, we asked the ACP for seven categories of statistics so that we could see where the law is. We got some answers to the four of them, and that's why I'm coming back. Firstly, it is clear that the EPC - and I ask you again today - is unable to provide statistical information because it says - from the electronic platform - that the contractor has a counterpart - a contractor who had taken the information system into SYRIZA - to the operation provided for in the original agreement. Really? Really, Mrs. Undersecretary? So the government that claims to have brought digital revolution cannot process data from the digital platform, nor can it tell the contractor two years now "do my man this extension"? Statistical information can't be extracted. But every day you bomb us. There's no day when you're not on a TV channel, you're not in a newspaper, you're not in a press release, you're not in an online conversation every day for three months, you've been bombing us with evidence. Where do you get it? Now we'll see. You're reiterating that you speeded up the procedures and removed the children from the foundations. Unfortunately, you have frozen the application of the law to appear as yours, so that you are delayed, Minister, because the figures are incomplete. According to ELSTAT’s data, the average adoptions per year in the 2010-2019s were tragedies of sixty-nine. Listen up, three hundred, sixty-nine! And ELSTAT does not record ascensions, just adoptions. What do you think? That within two years you've made three hundred 20 adoptions. Mercy! You claim that the children left the institutions, but early 2019 was a thousand seven hundred forty-five children and at the end of 2020 you claim to be a thousand seven hundred and of them only seventy-four are for adoption. Where do you get the information that you misinform the public, which is struggling for this terrible law? You have taken two years to issue the AAC for the grant of an admission allowance which you yourself say has been drawn up - in your reply you say so - at the beginning of the summer of 2019, but important regulatory interventions were needed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u30	And close with the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u31	I'm done, but it's very important. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u32	Of course, that's why I'm leaving you. Everything was important.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u33	Aren't you telling me, Minister, that the important regulatory intervention you have made was to abolish the fact that the allowance - what we and we have prepared for you, as you confess to the HR - is no longer a tax-free and irreparable? Is that the regulatory intervention you've made? Did you do anything else? I shall end here, Mr President, and I shall return to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u34	The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Domna - Maria Michailidou. Mrs. Michailidou, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. We're going back to our old practices that I don't know where to start with all this symptom I hear, but like every time I do a very brave effort. Law 4538 is 2018, right? How many times did we say it was in the right direction. How many? All the time I'm glad to see that you're watching me, whether they're in a printed press, or they're digital, or they're TV, every time I say we've found a good law. We found a good law that I'm not saying just now. The Greek Parliament and our resignation have also voted for it, not just at the outset. He voted in 2018. But, Mrs Fotou, the state has a continuity and through this continuity the state must at least have a consequence. So it is not every time that any government policy invokes and recognises the paternity of other laws. You know, when we took over in July 2019, there were four thousand other six hundred twenty laws that we had to respect. And what were we supposed to do? Every time, that is to say, to recognise paternity, my every fellow minister, the Prime Minister, in the four thousand six hundred and twenty laws that exist because the state has a continuity and has a consistency? So I'm telling you again, the paternity of the law was yours. But was it a very difficult law? Very difficult, extremely difficult. It was a law that was so difficult that you, too, and I recognise it with all of you - good intentions, you were unable to implement anything, from that very right law, Law 4538, which had many regulatory problems and many regulatory difficulties that we had both primary and secondaryly and with circulars and we created. In this law you have been unable to implement anything. You say, at a level that makes me almost embarrassing, that the match came into operation in April 2019. He's in-- he says-- he's running. Why did he enter into service in April 2019? Or rather - and better - what went into operation in April 2019? To inform our fellow citizens of this: What does the match do? For the first time this law, which was not implemented by the government that created it, because it was too difficult, because it was very problematic, because it was not possible for all operators at a table to agree, whether these bodies were public, whether they were local government, and obviously wanted education, whether they were private law bodies, or social workers. You never put them on a table to understand what this famous Law 4538 says and after they understood to implement it. That's why almost a year and a half later, nothing had happened. What should be done? I'll tell you what didn't happen and what happened. To work, then, the matching of what should be done is to have three registers. What's a match? It means that the citizen no longer goes into a structure - structure to apply, there is more transparency, making one single application, and that application is digital. And what's he doing? A match. What's the match? The state has created three registries. What did we find from those three records? Zero. What are those three records? One is the juvenile record, which gathers all the children. What happened until July 19th? All children were in eighty two structures. What was in it until July 19th? Two. Two to eighty two, children's record. There are two other registers, the register of candidate fostering parents and the register of candidate contractors. What was in those records? Nothing. You're telling me we found some ministerial decisions in the drawer. You know, Mrs. Fotio, what did we find in the drawer? Requests. We have found applications from our fellow citizens since '16, which we had to get out of the drawer, digitize and pass them in a chronological order of protocol. So if a fellow citizen of ours has applied in '16 and for some reason then the political leadership could not find this drawer unlock it, or a dog may have eaten the job, as children say as an excuse at school, for some reason his application was left in the drawer. We pulled them out, digitized them, joined the register and then prioritised them so that our fellow citizen can only have one priority on the basis of another the date he made his application. So we made all three records, digitized them, and what did we do? We did this, too, that the law provided for in 1918 as a basic condition for starting the matching. What was this beyond the operation and digitisation of applications and individual family rehabilitation plans for children? You were saying to Law 4538- and you were right to say so and we did it from the outset and in the pandemic we went through it and now every two months throughout the country - that in order to open a man's application before business, he must have passed training courses and his application cannot even be opened if he has not passed the training courses. But the state itself was telling him that to open up your application you must have done training courses yourself, the state itself was responsible for organizing them, and the state itself had never organized them. Since 1918, training courses had never been organized for a year and a half. Within the pandemic we have trained digitally hundreds of thirty child protection specialists, who have in turn trained all psychologists, social workers who are in welfare centres and regions are now running training courses with terrible consistency, with a programme that is now also posted on the EKKA page and one can see clearly when training courses and periodicals are being held. So we made the three records, did the educational courses, and what else did we do? We served with social workers, because in order to deal with the applications we found five years from '16 to '21 there had to be more social workers, because until we stopped mobility in our institutions, the social workers were delivering the institutions and leaving. So we hired new temporary staff through the provisions of COVID social workers in our institutions to help deal with all this stock, unfortunately, applications that we found our fellow citizens and gave us the opportunity, in fact, to implement this thing that had not been implemented so far, to members of the Association of Social Workers of Greece to come in subsidiary and to be able, after training, which we did, to assist in the processing of applications. So I don't get tired anymore, I think the rest will be discussed in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u36	Here, Mrs. Fotio, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u37	Madam Secretary, in order to unload the debate a little bit since it has seemed that the law was ours, it has appeared that the information system was ours, that there is no new institutional framework as you claim on all channels, these have proved to be the one and we have done so, to tell you since you are a woman and I, that it is not the maternality of the law, it can also be the motherhood of the law. In any case, however, let's go see what we did and what you did. So you said, why don't you answer what I'm asking you very specifically, that you found anything. What is an information system to understand, Mr President, and all Greek public opinion? An information system's been going through time in six months since a man has applied for the first day, they do his papers, they see if it's okay, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on, it's on. Then he goes to the second stage and says if appropriate, there is social research then he waits for his education and then sits in the National Minors Registers. Since April this system has been running, I will ask you what has happened exactly. That's the first. The second influx is the kids. So, firstly, children are registered with ASA - we have done so for the first time - a personal family restoration plan that says whether it is for assumption or is for adoption? There wasn't that ahead. Everything's original. And slowly he goes up and sits in the national register. That was working. So what happened? You said a few days ago at the ERT and unfortunately repeated it again today that you found a system, which was frozen, in drawers since '16. Really? According to the EKRD's answer, you probably do not read what he said, the initial collection of applications from the past - that is, all the requests from the past - took place from May to June 19 and were introduced into the system in September. It's the nine hundred forty-forty applications tank during the EKKA. That's all there was to it. People had made these applications. And not only had they been, they had been trained, they had been evaluated, they had taken all these steps. Minister, not to say what we want, because we have not only introduced education, but also the lessons we have made and delivered them to you. Ten CIA had to go out for this law, and we delivered them to you all but two. You still haven't taken them out in two years. You haven't taken it off. So what happened? These nine hundred and forty applications also had social research, most of them almost all, but they were also trained with the old system. From there, didn't you draw the prospective contractors and foster parents, so that you could be taken for the matching today? Because when you get to the matchings, the parent's file and the education's over, and the kid's file has gone, then the matching takes place. It wasn't the match since April 16, after the system went ahead. What are you talking about in the world? Is that what EKK says yes or no? If you really want to implement the law in the interests of children and society, which I believe you want, because you do not want to, you need to do real things rather than communication. Firstly, you say that you have made sure that social workers are appointed. I ask you: is that possible? What does the EKRD say in the answer? Didn't you read it? It says: 'In the regional sections that exist there is no social worker and I cannot go any further'. It also says: 'Never the State's powers are conferred. You assign responsibilities to the State which is due to be fulfilled by permanent planning to private entities in view of projects. You can't do it. Nor do you say that the assumption is at the core of our political planning - I wish it were, I say - while the services are depreciating and the foster families are staying without supervision and assistance. Do you have supervision and assistance in the ascensions that take place? Answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u38	Is there another question?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u39	Yeah. I'd like one more minute, please. Will you organise the export and public disclosure of statistics and conclusions that are necessary policy-making tool? Because it is not possible to know the ECA, the Ministry and the NSA, the National Admission Council for the Adoption, how many assumptions and adoptions are registered in the national registers at any time every hour. That was the system, that was a long story. It is about circumvention of the law and common sense. Will you trust the experts? The law provides for the role of the ESDC, the National Council. I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you very much for your tolerance, but you know how important this is. And from the Secretary of State's answers, people are being informed. Do you know how many people fight and call us from morning to night?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u40	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u41	So I ask you: does the ESY agree with the view that the quality criteria in the social research section are the same, both in assumption and adoption? That's impossible. Or do you have ignorance, but if you are ignorant, ask the RUF if it agrees. I also ask you: has the ESDC consulted on extending the age limits of candidate contractors? It's thirty to sixty limits that you can get a child within these limits. You say you'll make it twenty-five to seventy-five. Is there a scientific opinion from the ESY saying that this is a good thing, a seventy-five-year-old guy picking up a baby? Finally, you will strengthen the transparency of the system, following the requirements of the law, because then we will indeed be able to convince everyone - and I am there for you - about the history of the great campaign for accepting. What's the big problem, obviously, in our country? We must convince the Greeks that they must open a hug, as the motto of the platform says, all children have the right to a hug, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u42	Be well. I have friends who have adopted a child and are happy and I have others who are waiting. This is a well-known matter. Mrs Michalidou, you have the floor and you have all the time you want because it was a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. I think that it is also well known to our fellow citizens, especially our child-centered system, and also what we have done all this year, a year and something more, so that we can find the right family for every child, implement the law and ensure that children do not waste their childhood in structures, but exploit it and rejoice it in the proper family for them. Now for the evidence, this very important information, which you say you gave us, is not yet able to get the data automatically. However, because we have done a great deal of work and on this, Mrs Fotou, since next week quarterly data will be posted on our new page "www.paidi.gov.gr" and because I know that you're impatient we've made them manually, and I have them here to submit to you so that you and the rest of the Delegation can see this. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Domna - Maria Michailidou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] But I repeat that from week to week, digitally, all this information will be at 'www.paidi.gov.gr', which gathers all information on child protection. I will be very clear again, because we may be lost. I ask you: You say the system started in April 2019. Were there all the children in the register or were there children from two of the eighty-two structures? Was there all the kids in the register? Oh, no. There wasn't even 3% of the kids. Was there the kids in the register? No, they didn't. Were there parental applications? No, they didn't. Applications from 2016, 2017, 2018 were not past and the rest were incomplete. Was there the kids in the register? Oh, no. Were the parents' applications? Oh, no. Was there training for the instructors? Oh, no. Were the teachers? Has he become even a teacher by April 2019? Has it become even a teacher by August 2020? Oh, no. Did we have any social workers today in our foundations? Oh, no. Had there even been a match? You say it was working. Had there even been a match? Why? Why didn't there be any children? There were no children in the registers because you hadn't been through them. Were there any kids in the registers? No, there were no children. Were there any applications?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u44	(It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u45	Mrs. Fotius, she didn't interrupt you, she heard you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u46	Again, Mrs. Fotio. What did we find? You're telling me it was a system that operated. Did he have kids in the registers? No, he didn't, because they weren't registered. Did he have the parents' applications? No, it didn't, because of 2016, 2017 and 2018 were forgotten in the same drawer. Did he have training courses? No, it had not run a training course. Did he have social workers who are today? No, he didn't have any social workers today. Had there even been a match? No, not even a match, not a match. Was there even a digital take-up allowance granted? No, no one was given a digital take-off allowance. What did we do? Within less than a year, since July 2020 within eight months, we have taken out seven hundred children from the foundations and have found through these movements the right family for them. And you know what? That's your strategy. I don't expect you to say good, no, I didn't expect you to say good. But what I expect at least is that we be together in this and find a family for every child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u47	Thank you both very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-09-S1-commons.u48	With the consent of the House at 10.20 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 10 June 2021 and 10.00 p.m. on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda to be distributed.
