ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 23-2-2021 authorisation, the minutes of its PZ meeting, on Tuesday, 23 February 2021, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: "National Accessibility Authority, National Committee on Human Rights and National Committee on Bioethics and Technology".]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION On the subject: "Convergence at the request of Prime Minister Mrs Mitsotakis in accordance with Rule 142a of the Rules of Procedure of the House on information to the House on the quality of the Republic and the Public Dialogue". We are meeting, ladies and gentlemen, today at the request of the Prime Minister, who was sent on Monday 22 February 2021 and notified to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups of the Opposition Day, as set out in Rule 142a of our Rules of Procedure. According to the terms of this article, the announcement is made in person by the Prime Minister and its duration cannot exceed 10 minutes in protology, five in denology and five in tritology. The Chairmen of the Representation Parliamentary Groups may, in person, develop their views on the content of the communication for a few minutes, i.e. not more than five minutes in their prototypes and three in their denology. The Prime Minister in accordance with paragraph 6 of Article 142a shall speak last. However, for the sake of better organisation of the debate, I propose in line with the unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents of 24 February 2021 that the speaking time of the Prime Minister and of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups of the Representation should be extended in such a way that the Prime Minister speaks in his prology for for forty minutes, in his dentology for twenty minutes and in his trilogy also for twenty minutes, and that the Presidents of the other parliamentary groups speak for twenty minutes and in their dentext for twelve minutes. The planned periods under the Rules of Procedure have been extended from one hour to four hours, so I would ask you to respect them. In any case, the meeting should be closed at 15.45 p.m. so that the Prime Minister can participate in the summit, which begins at 16.00 p.m. The expiry at 15.45 ́ also includes an understandable tolerance for slightly exceeding the years I described earlier. Does this House accept this proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u2	The proposal was unanimously accepted. Before I call, ladies and gentlemen, on the Prime Minister, in Stepma, I would like to ask the President of Parliament and, in the light of today's debate, which has, admittedly, attracted the attention of the public more, I would say, at any time in the last period, that we are disobeying - and I would like to stress that as President, I will do everything I can to achieve this, but I would like to have you all together, as I am sure - those who hope that today's debate will be an extension of the attempt which is being made and which has been disapproved here in this House by parties, to take the top hand in this case of disgraceful complaints that are arousing public opinion. The horrific exploitation, which attempts - I repeat - to take the "top hand" into the recent atrocious history of unacceptable and creepy, penalistic behaviour that has already taken the path of justice. Previously on behalf of the Committee on Bioethics, presented by Mr Gerapitris, the House deplored Members of Parliament who, I believe, expressed the whole of the House the other atrocious attempt to take advantage of this fact. And I am sure that today - as everyone expects - there will be a substantive debate on an issue that is disturbing - I repeat - public opinion, but which will be dealt with by Parliament. And I want you to know that in this institutional treatment of a serious debate on a serious subject, I want to have you all and all. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Please, following my proposal and my position, for Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis to come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I share your thoughts. Coming to Parliament, I have heard a well-known radio commentator anticipating that this House will be similar to a III-national football score today. It is up to all of us not to allow that. We will say tough truths today, but we must safeguard the level of parliamentary dialogue and talk with evidence and evidence. I hope and hope that at the end of the debate we will be able to reach our common line on dealing with the substance of the problem, which is of concern to public opinion in the last month. I have therefore brought this debate together to consider how our institutional framework will deal more effectively with the phenomena of power and sexual abuse, which are, unfortunately, taking place in our country as well. A wave of revelations rose after the complaints made by Sofia Bekateros in the field of sport, already stretched into the field of art and also horizontally across the entire Greek society. And secondly, I have caused this debate because, as the President of Parliament has said, this resolution process is in danger of losing its goal, turning into another field of cheap party confrontation and plunging itself into a boulder of populism, as if crime were colorful and shameful ideology. As our homeland enters the world cycle of the movement called "Me Too", the need for more truth and justice, for more boldness, for more maturity is shaped. The phenomena of harassment and violence against the weakest cross borders, classes, religions, professions, cross culture and our time. Therefore, dealing with them requires a state and a citizen to be involved, to act in the rule of law, but also to react to a society of law, because a problem for everyone requires a solution from everyone. It is no accident, as I said, that all this started in our country from the testimony of Sofia Bekaterou on 16 January - I would like to remind you - at an event organized specifically by the General Secretariat of Sports. It was an initiative that I immediately welcomed. In fact, I contacted Sofia Bekaterou, characterizing the Olympic olympian of responsibility that broke the chain of silence, so that the stigma of guilt could pass from the victim to the victim. And, respectively, all the parties, all the political leaders welcomed this brave act of Sofia Bekatore. I closed my message with three words: 'Milme - We Complaint - We reveal'. These three parallel roads, however, are attempting to close the derailment and undermining of the public debate on this issue. The following revelations have shown that the problem exists, that it leaves wounds everywhere. At the same time, however, they have shown that a framework, an environment of freedom and security which can lead to cleansing and self-cleaning, which was obviously not self-evident until a few years ago, when the incidents of indifference covered them. The 'Me Too' movement started four years ago in America and took place immediately in the rest of Europe. It was now, in 2021, in our homeland. Today, then, the voice has broken the silence and it is the turn of the act to break the inertia. "Me Too" is at the core of a movement healthy, all aspects of social life, work, home, sport, art, everyday behaviors, much more when it touches the most outrageous version of the problem, violence, sexual abuse against minors. It is precisely for this reason that the 'Me Too' movement is not blind, but specific, to be effective. Not to be lost in rumors so that it does not cancel and, above all, does not take the form of a gross political exploitation, which, through artificial separations, will ultimately achieve what it achieves? To sneeze the victims, because confusion is ultimately the other side of the cover. Ladies and gentlemen, for a month now, the Greek society has suffered a hard shock, when it began learning about its secret aspects, a chain of events which could - and they can even - be transformed into links of unity and conscientiousness. Because common defence to such a threat is a move to liberate, in other words it is a challenge to finally highlight our best elements, what unites us, not what divides us. And yet, unfortunately, over the last few days, things have turned differently. Protagonists are no longer victims, secretaries harassed by their bosses, women beaten in their own home, teenagers and children threatened by adults, often and by relatives who trust and admire, on the field, at school, in the playgrounds of their neighborhood. These are not the protagonists in the last few days. And so this opportunity of collective awakening is at risk of becoming a strand of party gladiators. The news, unfortunately, is flooded with vulgar remarks, as some wanted to fly in their own dirty basket an issue that shocks each Greek family. A new wave of populism and blurred accusations is being moved, with the sole aim of smearing faces and parties, as if the rapists were being separating themselves to left-wing or right-wing ideology and as if those who suffer the violence had their own separate ideology. This catapult revolts the case of the Greek "MeToo", deceives it, and this is done with the main responsibility of the forces that were supposed to present it as a means of social emancipation. Their attitude, however, today entangles her in the undergrounds of rumors and evils. The mud ejected eventually hides the guilty from the gaze of society and justice, giving birth to false divisions and ultimately blocking the great demands. The big question is that victims should finally speak freely, that the rule of law should function and that citizens as a whole should be awakened. The professors of the misery I describe must sometime come out of the sewer and put their signatures on this sad work, not only because they divert a serious effort on other paths, but also because the toxicity that they bring, on this occasion, once again poisons political life, undermines the unity, social cohesion, the sobriety that is required by moments and indiscriminately nurtured political dialogue, is making the very functioning of parliamentary democracy difficult. So I'm here for clear words and clear explanations, which is why I'm looking into your eyes and I'm asking you openly before the catastrophe is completed. Are you blaming the government that it covers pedophiles and that the New Democracy is moving a group of minors? Who is finally hiding behind the "#ind pedophiles" and the neo-navigation of the Internet? How dare you Member, Mrs Eleftheriadou, say that they are sold underage by non-governmental organisations? With what courageous Member of Parliament, Mr Paulakis, yesterday, one day before the debate, does he make obscene posts, implying unaccompanied refugee and Maximus' full responsibility? Mr Tsipras, I ask you to answer not as former Prime Minister, not as Chief of Police Response to the country's Prime Minister. I invite you to answer as Alexis Tsipras, father of two children, to Mr. Mitsotakis, father of three children! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So let us make it clear, once and for all, that the issue of unaccompanied minors on which so many specs have been built by the Internet trolls, whose party origin we know. In 2019, when I entered the prime minister's office, three months later, some representatives of civil society made me aware of the drama of unaccompanied refugees, about the miserable situation in which they had come. They showed me this study of Harvard University's Health and Social Rights Centre: "The Growing Epidemic of Sexual Exploitation and Abuse of Migrant Children in Greece". They described me as a situation with two thousand unaccompanied children, who were at the "collapsor" of Moria and Samos and a thousand children exposed to the "serious" of cities, issued very often for 5 euros and 10 euros. Two hundred children were still being held in police custody without committing the slightest crime. And, yes, Mr Tsipras, I said that I would personally deal with this matter so that I could resolve it. I have created a special secretariat, which is the head of which is Mrs Meridakis - most of you do not know her, she sits here at the government headquarters - which has been over the problem and solved it. I am not going to blame you because you have not solved the problem, nor, obviously, can I think of leaving any gross implied intent, such as those that are moved by various trolls, which are in your political space. I'll just say you haven't solved the problem. You haven't solved the problem. And she came to the government and solved it. And I have an email here from DG Home: ‘Congratulations, dear Eirini. I am just wishing to congregate you to the great success of having no unaccompanied minutes in the RICs...’ the reception centers “...on the Greek islands. A huge step forward, considering where we come from, and everything we want to you..." in Mrs. Ilonadakis, referred to "...relentless eforts, delivering where else failed". I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And for this lady, Mr Polakis puts up a post: "Love, the roller of the New Democracy". I am waiting today, if anything, for this behaviour to be condemned openly, unequivocally and at some point, to finally delete one of your members, for these incredible things that are being said, for these grossly implying that there can be any involvement of government in a refugee movement. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Keep the post of your other Member, to see them. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But that may be our difference. We have Mrs. Lovedakis and you have Mr. Polakis. Maybe, after all, that's what it says and we don't have to say anything more. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So I ask you again. And I expect clean answers today. I would like to ask you whether the vulgarities of Mr Vaxvanis are expressing you, or whether you prefer "AGEAN", your party form, which in his front page, supports exactly the opposite. It was written "AGEY": "The tendency to add pediatricity to Mitsotakis from nothing is emetic yellowism". I wonder how the other SYRIZA members are placed on this issue. And as “AUGI” writes, it does not become a policy by dragging out on the opponent. I'll totally agree. So respond as a politician, as I ask you to be persistent. If, however, you are finally with your official newspaper, then how do you explain that one day before "AGEI", its director, who wrote them, said, ironically commenting and fully matching with Mr Vaxvanis and DOCUMENTO", that there are "children" - "child" - which are in the Premier's environment. Answer as a mere observer. How many people does your staff really have? How many lines does your party have? How flexicurity does your morals actually have? Unless you are the third school, the one that considers the case - because we have heard this - that MeToo is a fiasco, because, as Mr. Friends says - I do not see him today in the Chamber - Mr. Katsaros was the only mission chosen by Mr. Lignades to rename the National Room "REX" in the "Eleni Papadakis" with the name of the great actor who was murdered in 1944 in the turbulent period of December. I would like to respond as a ordinary citizen who lives in the twenty-first century. So I talked about all this, about the ravaging vocalisations and the publications of your MPs, because you can tell me that you are not accountable for what each journalist writes, no matter how directed I personally think he is. But you are accountable for your Members. Get in position for the contradictory lines of the director of the newspaper "SUNE". After all, a party body is the newspaper. And finally take a position on this mud, which is launched toward an entire party, the largest of the country that was born and exists to serve the country and not to rally it through the trolls of Koumandouros. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In normal circumstances, of course, the subject of today's debate, as I have said, would certainly be different. I also said at the outset that such a confrontation does not fit either in the context or it is not worth what society is after all asking for. But, Mr President, in order for the political climate to be cleared up at last, we also need to follow the cleansing of everyday life. We'll finally all be open. And I hope - and I sincerely hope you will, at last, renounce these unacceptable behaviours openly, publicly. To listen today to clean words that lead to a clean atmosphere. But that was not your strategy. You chose to turn a social issue of national dimensions into an insidious anti-government blow, but also into a blow, supposedly, of my personal prestige. You have tried to deceive us successively on the fronts of immigration, national management of the pandemic, the economy. You have failed very simply because we have succeeded. And now you have decided to invest in polite morality around a matter of public morality. You chose to invest in the Linguid case, betting on an issue that you know well, populism, unaltered populism that will transform the “German germans” of 2011 into the pedophiles of 2021. You have been late ten years, but the answer you will get will be the same, because here too, the facts are clear, despite what you have now - I am addressing you - you have claimed, when you have repeatedly said that Mr Lignade is my friend. You said it twice in your interview, and it's a matter of having seen him once or twice as an actor. I didn't know him personally. It was posted by the Minister of Culture and when he was placed, no one mentioned anything against him. Everyone recognized his artistic value. And if one of those people who talk a lot today knew something at the time, he should have said it in the first place, because otherwise that means he knew and covered up. And once the first rumors around his face began to shake, he certainly couldn't be a judge. He was asked for explanations. He assured that he had no involvement. At the same time as the first complaint, on the same day, I would remind you that it was anonymous, without the name of Mr Lignade - but he described it very clearly - Mr Lignade was led to resignation and his resignation was immediately accepted. And that is where the rule of law closes the government's competence and, in the first law, the case came quickly into the hands of the judiciary. So how do you respond to all this? With one thing you know how to do well, very well. And that's the lie. You talked about covert. What cover? Mr Lignade was removed five hours - not days, five hours - following the publication of the first complaint, which, I repeat, was anonymous, but photographed with complete clarity. It is something that your representative also unintentionally admitted when he reverted to the dates. And, of course, he was arrested immediately after the first lawsuit, which the victims' lawyers themselves recognised, one of which was also a candidate for the MEP.25. So you asked, Mr Tsipras, for the resignation of the Minister, because he had to know. But knowing what about a man's dark sides? The ones you knew as Prime Minister, when you had the same face of the New Scene of the Nationality? These dark aspects that the SYRIZA MEPs knew when they invited him to Brussels at a special conference to talk about the experiential training of the theatre? Or did these dark aspects that his fellow Members now say afterward that they knew, but did they be covered by the days of the profession? You also said that there was no notice. Why? Did you, Mr. Livathino by notice, appoint him, the former director who succeeded Mr. Lignade? At the delivery-receipt ceremony, Mr. Livathian himself stressed the possibilities and the curriculum of Mr. Lignade. And one more thing I can't leave out of business. It's a photo that published your party form from a performance I went to. It was the only performance I have seen and directed by Mr. Lignades during the summer in Epidaurus, the "Press". And a very interesting photo was filed, which even headlined the site of "AGEI". Only, Mr. Tsipras, there was something missing from the photo. Mrs. Conordou, former Minister of Culture, who was next to me, was missing. This is the photo you've posted. That's the real picture. Mrs. Connordus is gone! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And underneath I thought it useful to put another missing picture of Stalin and Nikolai Yizov's times, who had magically been censored and removed when the regime wanted to neutralize him. I am not saying that you will do the same to Mrs Conordou, but these are Stalinist practices, Mr Tsipras! This is not the case in serious countries. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I say this, to make the debate a little clear, although these issues are very serious. Well, look at that. I fully understand that you request the Minister's resignation. It's your right. After all, you have asked for the resignation of half the government. It is absolutely legitimate that you do so. The swamp, however, to which you have dragged the controversy, is not your right. What you've done is left-colored trampism. That's how I'd describe it. These are the practices that have finally been condemned in the United States. Because you are well aware that, in other parts of the world and in the United States, the notorious theories of paedophiles, who ruled the country and found political coverage, were moved. Our job is, therefore, the coherence and proper assessment of the work of the Government and Mrs Mendoni. And yes, political responsibility is obviously a burden to me. I choose the members of the Ministerial Council, on the basis of the Constitution, and I believe that Mrs Mendoni is an effective minister. Thanks to it there are very large works that may have been disturbed, such as the Greek metro in Thessaloniki. In one month's time, we'll meet together to launch the new National Gallery, jewelry work, posted for at least ten years. The National Museum of Contemporary Art, which was open for a decade, operated by Ms. Mendoni. The Acropolis has become accessible again to disabled people and has been illuminated. Tatoi revives with all its historical, cultural and ecological burden. And yes, during the pandemic, workers in culture first acquired a register under which they are compensated. Museums modernise and acquire their own resources so that they can grow. Above all, the problem of copyright has been solved definitively, and even consensually, a matter of decades which was a request from all the authors. So, yes, Mrs Mendoni is a good Minister, and if she has upset quite a few of the artworks of'mobile'. Of course he's not a professional politician. Maybe that's why he missed some kind of communication. Loaded emotionally, characterize Mr. Lignade dangerous. Wrong! I call it first, big mistake! However, this does not balance the weight of her work. She's a scientist, she knows the area of culture and I support her. As you know, it does not come from my party, it has no intention of dealing with it. But not only do I support it, it is supported by many people of art, of science. Because, you know, there are not only some actresses who gather under the Ministry, but also dozens of prominent people of culture and art who sign a recent text of support. I read: 'It may be with everyone's policy to agree or not. However, no one disputes her scientific adequacy in the decades that serve culture, as well as her work and her personal ethos. The latest developments..." as they write fifty-six to the presumption that very serious people of culture have to be "...these need to be reconciling and not the cause of division and "MeToo" to turn this test into a true regeneration." I think so too, and I am presenting their letter. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, all of this is obviously about SYRIZA, about his political personality and his morality. We would not care and I would not be particularly interested if it were not at this start of society to take an important step forward. Because, as I said, they are causing a new storm of populism that brings true covertness and real disorientation, because false screams can mask clean voices. Instead of new institutions, we are again at risk of self-determination, while the poison of demagogy is rescheduled into society. Greece experienced this adventure and paid it dearly years ago with the economic crisis. We must not relive it on the basis of an issue that ultimately concerns every family of our country. We owe it to women, to children, to every fellow citizen who can at some point find himself in a weak position, because the progress of society is a case much greater than any objective of any party. And her dismissal of abuse and violence is a matter of national concern. This movement, then, is a headline to unite society, to make it fairer, with more opportunities, merit, respect for everyone and everyone. As has now happened everywhere, it also happens in Greece. "MeToo" causes, works like a intersection in time. The world of work and the rules governing it will substantially change because of it. The mouths that are now opening, the voices that are now being heard require one thing from us: To listen and to change, to recognise that, yes, there has been and there is inequality between men and women - it is enough in Parliament to see this - that, yes, we still have a way to get to real equality and that it is good that women themselves, but also men who have received abuse feel safe to speak. This culture of silence is broken. It is no coincidence that this government has shaped the framework for the victims to denounce these acts to justice and justice to act. I am very pleased that many branches are already mobilising and acting on codes of conduct, because no one is to blame if they did not know yesterday. But it'll be if he finds out today and doesn't react tomorrow. There are initiatives which I am announcing today and I hope they will find cross-party support today in plenary. They are initiatives that have a double objective. Firstly, to strengthen our legal arsenal even further for the fair punishment of the guilty of the past and of the present, but above all to prevent future crimes by creating a framework of security and trust for every citizen. In this context, then, the Criminal Code is changing. Penalties for offences against sexual freedom are being confirmed. As far as juveniles are concerned, the limitation is suspended until the victim's adulthood with new age limits, while specific cases are now being dealt with as a priority. It is also inaugurated by a central web portal, metoo.gov.gr, where all our information and all our policies on this subject will be gathered, but mostly complaints can also be filed in real time. We are introducing - and I consider this to be extremely important - a special register for all professionals who come into contact with children and adolescents, with strict conditions for registration, such as coaches, camp workers, refugee workers. This register, which all the serious countries have, which preconditions for anyone who works with children - and obviously, I am not talking about the area of education - should operate in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, ELAS, the police authorities. A central structure is set up in the General Secretariat of Family Policy and Gender Equality for the evaluation, but above all for the extrajudicial resolution of this category, and soon the 190 Convention of the International Labour Organisation, the ILO, will be ratified to eliminate violence and harassment. In agreement with the social partners, mandatory codes of conduct are laid down in each undertaking, with provisions on behaviour and sanctions for those who do not comply with them. I would just like to mention one example: many countries in the world have adopted policies, the so-called 'open door', where an existing person enters the office of a supervisor and the door must be open for good reasons. These are not difficult interventions. These are interventions which, in consultation with the social partners, can easily be introduced in the way we work in the workplace. Of course, we are also introducing the possibility of the alleged person being made available - I stress this - as a perpetrator by a suspension of damages until this case has been resolved, because in a rule of law no one is guilty until justice has been condemned. These interventions, which I am announcing today, are not just used up in the private sector. That is why, in disciplinary law and of civil servants, the doctors of the ESS, the security bodies are introducing a special disciplinary misconduct at the workplace. Finally - and I consider this to be very important - we have been extending to all schools since September the programme of sexual education, which was piloted this year. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because respect not only in the other sex, but also in diversity must be taught early. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been said that politics is not moral. I disagree. It must have its own morality, that which is far from simple morality, because it is based on principles which define one criterion: the service of the public interest and the dignity of every citizen separately. That is exactly what the proposals I have just spoken about are for. On the occasion of the Greek "Me Too" we have an opportunity to become all better, our society to synchronize its step by the age of rights and the mature response to complex problems. In order for this to happen, however, the debate on the problem of powerless violence to return to its starting point, to return to the field of truth and responsibility, away from cheap party competition and easy impressions. Because liberal parliamentary democracy, Mr President - and I shall end with it - does not hesitate to look into the eyes of any problem and to face the reality with the rules of the rule of law, thus creating a society of law. In our hand is to prove together that we can do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Prime Minister, and indeed in keeping with time, which I am sure is a good sign for the next speeches. I will now call on Mr Alexis Tsipras, Chief of Staff and Chairman of the Parliamentary Group Radical Left Coalition - Progressive Alliance at the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Some say - and perhaps not unfairly - that the best defense is the attack. This attempted to do today for forty minutes at this Step, Mr. Mitsotakis, although he started his speech, saying that today's debate in Parliament does not want to take the character of fighting football matches III National, but he himself made sure to lower the level in local amateur, not even the third National. And the big issue for all those who are watching us today is that we have been here almost a month in the face of shocking revelations, in the face of appalling crimes, but also in the face of a major scandal involving the attempt to cover up these appalling acts. This is the agenda for the debate today. Whatever you have decided to place as the title of today's debate, using the Rules of Procedure of the House once again and inviting us to make announcements, the real debate is the one that is currently held in every Greek family, in every house, in every workplace. If they were open, and where they're open, the cafes at every cafe. We have a pandemic, it's closed. But this is the debate today. For all this, the Greek people who are watching us hear something from us today. And that is why he expected to hear today, Mr Mitsotakis, from you in the forty minutes of your speech, even a reference to taking political responsibility, even an apology for the flaws, for the mistakes, for the omissions of your government and for giving some explanation. Instead, you have chosen, by changing the context of the debate, to escape this suffering. It's not an easy thing for a politician to take responsibility. And it is no coincidence that you have chosen in this critical debate at ministerial headquarters today not to sit Ms. Mendoni but to sit on Mrs. Meridakis. You're obviously choosing it. It's no accident. Only, Mr. Mitsotakis, you're making a mistake. You are making a mistake because you are not rather aware that you are not here today to explain to SYRIZA or to address and abdicate the opposition. You have come to the House to address the Greek people who are watching us. I feel that it has been one of the discussions with the greatest public interest in many years. So you came here without regard for the world that watched us to set up a party confrontation with opposition. The issue, however, which concerns Greek society is not a matter of parties, it is a matter of society, a matter of society, a society that in these days has become ill with everything that comes out in the light of publicity, a society that is hurting every mother, every father, every family regardless of party confrontation. So don't address SYRIZA. Please address your constituents. Please contact your MPs asking for the resignation of Mendoni. Do not address SYRIZA, KINAL, KICE, Mera25, to the Greek Solution. In any case, it is precisely because I want to make a point in this world that I want to go over and out of party labels, that I should like to begin my position, not with you, but with a great thank you to the victims who dared. To boys and girls, women and men who have been carrying a deep wound for years and years in the depths of their souls. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] They found the courage not only to open their souls, but also to publicly show their wounds, despite the fact that many of them who indicated as guilty of their abuse were too high, were people with power, publicity or close links with people of power. That is what we all have to praise today and tell them a great thank you. Because they found their strength and raised their voices, their personal witnessing as a barrier collectively against oblivion, against tolerance and covertness, opening up the way for justice and I hope for the cleansing and thus protecting hundreds of boys and girls in the future from such abuses. So they too are due to the great debate that has opened up to the Greek society and to the political system. They and they must support today, without party prerequisites and "yes, but" and with respect to them to place themselves with boldness, but also with self-criticism where all the political system needs - unknown word for you, Mr. Mitsotakis - is designed to reach, as we say, "the knife in the bone" and to make the courage norm, not the cover and light the answer to fear, justified fear, and darkness. We are not, of course, going to stand trial here today, and we are going to condemn anyone much more. Justice has the floor on this matter. However, let us all ask ourselves, Co-population and Opposition: are there only serious criminal charges in this case? Are there no political responsibilities that create a political scandal? Didn't we all see a stench, a fat-cut and provocative attempt to cover up? Wasn't he attempting to present the Lignade scandal as a disgrace to a director for nothing? Even worse, have public complaints and revelations not been attempted as a violation of the presumption of innocence? But if a presumption of innocence is being questioned today, and indeed very seriously, Prime Minister, that is the presumption of your own policy - I repeat, political - of innocence. Because no matter how much you try to change the debate, in this Chamber, a heavy shadow lies behind and above you, although it is not - as you choose - in the cabinet today. It is the shadow of the Minister of Culture, Mrs Mendoni, who together the world of arts, culture, but too many Members of Parliament ask you urgently to take political responsibility and resign. It is the shadow of Ms. Mendoni that you insist on protecting her, to support her, despite the outcry of the world of art against her, supposedly because she was undone - it says - the great investment in Greek. Okay, if that's the case, change it and put it in Mr. Georgiadis' place that's been stuck for years, there's no investment in this place! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] However, relieve the area of culture of its own presence, because it is severely exposed to the way it handled and the way it attempted to cover up the Linguid scandal or better the Mendoni - Lignade scandal. He hears them, Mr. Mitsotakis. But you seem to be somewhere else and don't listen to this aid coming from the world of art, coming from society, coming from hundreds of people from the cultural area. You do not hear or rather do that you do not hear the pandemic today demand for the dismissal of your Minister and you decide and order to remain in her place, to rely on it, to be politically washed, because - as the last chapter of your propaganda says - he did nothing but a small communication error. So I wonder here today, along with the majority of the opinion: why do you support Mrs Mendoni with such passion? Is there a guilty secret we don't know? I can't believe a minister could blackmail the Prime Minister. And that, because the responsibilities, whether or not, belong to the Prime Minister. Mrs. Mendoni, in her own way, has she moved through this whole story? In itself, Mrs. Mendoni decided to change the law and abolish the contest? Why did you now ask us here: "How was the former artistic director appointed?" The law we found from you. We changed the law, Mr. Mitsotakis. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We changed the law and made Mrs Zorba a competition, invited public interest when in those days Mr. Lignade went out to public events and some told him that "you are preparing for a next artistic director." The secret had leaked. Who was he preparing for? Who suggested it to him? What for? In itself, Mrs Méndonis decided to abolish the tender and to appoint a national artistic director, Mr Lignade, who, in her statement, did not know but three days before he was appointed? On her own, she decided to take this step of the House to a head-on demonstration of how you understand both the role of Parliament and the public debate, and to invoke reasons of public interest to abolish the competition for the appointment of Lignade. Objections of public interest! On its own, has it decided to try, with various pretexts, to cover the cover for a number of days for fifteen days, enabling Mr Lignade to take all possible steps to eliminate possible evidence of his action? On her own, Mrs Mendoni decided not to resort to justice at the first moment of the first public complaint on February 6, that is, on the day that you later told us - and after you allowed Mendoni to lie to her and to your Government representative to lie and to be exposed - that at that time you asked for and did not give up on his own Lignade. Is she doing all this on her own? You told us you never knew him, that you'd never seen us photoshop on photos. Who put him, anyway, in this position? Who? Whose choice was it, Mr. Mitsotakis, to enter this position? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] He went out of the National, saw the light and came in? Who are you telling? What kind of hypocrisy recital is this in this Chamber today? Do you believe your MPs in these irreversible commitments? In this case, Mrs Mendoni alone decided to request the resignation of Lignade on 6 February, with the first public complaint, but not to resort to justice on the day she asked for the resignation of Lignade rather than to wait, giving the defendant a crucial time... [[Noise - disagreements from the New Democracy Wing]] Listen to the opposing person. I'm asking questions. The Prime Minister will answer. ...Although it waited when only when on February 19, after fifteen whole days, there was the information and a lawsuit was filed on the same day for an unregistered offence. On the same day that the Prime Minister went to the President of the Republic and placed, Mrs Mendoni was making, as I said, a petition, while she knew that an unregulated offence had been filed, so there was no possibility that justice would not proceed to the case. So, on her own, she decided to do all this? That is the key, the crucial question. The Greek people expect to hear the answer to this question. You cannot avoid, Mr Mitsotakis, respond to these with interactive discussions, interesting and crucial for the quality of public dialogue. But if that is what you will bring us here today to talk about the quality of public dialogue is a distraction not to answer the critical questions, then I will tell you that it is a distraction of shame. That's what I'm gonna call him. In fact, another crucial question, ladies and gentlemen of the government, why did you not show the same reflexes that you have rightly demonstrated in the case of Bekatouros, in which I must say - in order to agree today too - that we all owe a great thank you, because it was the first to open Halos' academy with this bravery that he has shown. So what frightened you in the case of Lignadis and did you not go the same way? What made you organise this whole business, I will say, covering without calculating what trademark you are giving to Greek society, what trademark you are giving to the victims and what trademark you are giving to the perpetrators and what trademark you are giving with this management - a vaterlo you have chosen and to which for an unexplained reason here in Parliament you are insisting on. What signal does the director of your party's press office, Mr. Roman, who represents you, Mr. Mitsotakis, holds a succinct attack on the Hellenic Actors' Association, namely those people who today promote the revelations towards justice. What signal does it give them when it attempts to put the sign on the party that they are left and thus gives political feasibility to their honest attitude. And above all what signal gives when he blames them - listen - that they knew and didn't speak for so many years. Really? Is that the New Democracy line?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u6	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u7	Is that the truth? Is it exactly the same as this unacceptable 'now remembered'? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This unacceptable 'now remembered' you are whispering, none of you dared to say it directly when a shocking complaint from a woman or a boy who remembers after years. He doesn't remember after years. He's been denounced for years. Because he never forgot, gentlemen of the parliamentary majority! The abuse of these people has been deeply engraved in their souls for years! So, then, are you giving a sign of support to the victims, incriminating or preventing the victims from revealing the victims? What sign, too, are you giving when every Greek family is creeping through these complaints, the Minister of Development, Mr. Georgiadis, cares to betray public opinion about the defensive line of Ms. Mendonis and tell us that those who denounce it for its incomprehensible treatments in the Lignadis case do so because they are left-wing people who hate her because she unblocked the terrible investments in the Greek. Did you really think a lot about finding this line? And you didn't even think that you humiliate people who dared to denounce their powers? N.S. And the other children who filed lawsuits and got on show and publicly denounced their abuse did so because they didn't want the investment to take place in Greek? So, how thick can it fit into your political feasibility? How thick? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr. Mitsotakis, because you have addressed a personal tone in order to provoke me, I will not be provoked for talking about flexicurity, flexicurity, and you have referred to a personal tone to my children and your children. I have an honest question and I'll tell you. I will take very clear distances from all the vulgarities of public speech, but I have a very clear question: Your personal concern, but also the collective government at the first moment when it saw the light of this publicity, or since you were informed, perhaps before you saw the light of publicity, was it not to encourage the victims to speak? Was it to protect the perpetrator from falling into dogs? Mr. Gerapetritis told us in the House the other day, that the resignation of Lignade was finally requested when Nikos S.'s creepy complaint was published, but you didn't tell public in order not to pass on the former artistic director of the National Theatre, not to throw him into dogs. In respect to Lignade, did you hide the truth of the victims and their drama? Is that what you did?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u8	What do you think? I was here. He didn't say that!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u9	Please, no vacation!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u10	And you put your poor government representative, a young man with pearls, a university professor, out and mistreated, can't speak and say that the reasons for resignation were personal? You didn't do that? You did it by taking another not step, jumping, I would say, in the effort to cover up. Mr. Mitsotakis, I am sorry, but you are politically exposed to this whole case and will remain politically uncovered as long as you insist to cover your Minister. I would like, therefore, because I do not want to chew my words, to completely separate my position from what is irresponsible, written or spoken in social media. I'm not hiding. If you want to hide behind them so you don't give answers today, hide. The Greek people see us, though. You can't hide behind your finger. And you know what, Mr. Mitsotakis? I have personally been attacked with thousands of terrible posts in recent years. And I repeat that I have no problem, and I do not feel obliged to say that I disagree decisively, vertically, with much of the immunity of your keyboard. I'm telling you straight away. And I'm doing it very well for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u11	What about Vaxesvanes? There's the keyboard...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u12	Please don't take a vacation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u13	For everyone. And I do it remarkably even though you have never done anything similar when your political opponents were targeting you. Never! The fact that we do not adopt immunity and condemn it does not mean that we do not say things the way they are. It does not mean that you are, I repeat, politically - and I would say morally - seriously exposed because you were tolerated - I do not know if you have organised, but it is certain that you have tolerated - a sequence of acts and omissions relating to Mr Lignade and Mrs Mendoni, with the latest and worst episodes of the attempt to cover up. And one would expect respect for the victims and the demand for society to assume all their responsibilities, today would urge you to stand up to the difficult circumstances as well and dare a political self-criticism. You'd win that way. Recognise that wrongly, even supporting wrong people today, by changing laws according to the beam, you also made yourself an accomplice - not to say a pioneer - of a major political scandal, even though it was your choice for the National Theatre. That's not even what you told us today. You don't feel the need to apologize for this choice. Did you know? Obviously, you didn't know. Apologise to say, take a political responsibility. And why your choice, too, was and remains Mrs Mendoni as the first lady of our culture. And completely your choice is to ignore not only the general outcry, but also - I repeat - your own MPs, who are asking for her resignation, and to keep her in her place. From criticism so far they have managed to keep you friendly, from self-criticism you are caring for yourself. And you come to the House today to give us lessons on the quality of democracy and public dialogue. Probably for hypocrisy lessons we should talk about, because you, Mr Mitsotakis, are the Prime Minister who, in the name of the institutions, has made the biggest institutional personalities, his Prime Minister is "head hurting, cutting head" that changes the law when it does not suit him. You've done it as many times as in the Linguid case. But, Mr Mitsotakis, do you really want to talk about democratic dialogue? Listen, then, democratic dialogue is not made by serious parties and much more by serious governments only with words, discernment and communications tricks. It's done first - first by deeds. The act, Mr. Mitsotakis, is a criterion of the truth. And the act says that you are allergic to the rival and intolerant to criticism. The act says that you have turned this House into a nuisance in the name of the pandemic. What dialogue do you call for when you, even now, are scandalously ignoring the will of the people of art and society to extinguish Ms. Mendoni and shed plenty of light? What dialogue do you call on and how you remembered him now, in the difficult circumstances, while society requires institutional and political measures that prevent similar dramas in the future? If you really want dialogue, dare not with us here to take lessons and confront ourselves, dare to discuss these people, find those people, the bodies of art, the actors, the artists and the organisations of the people of art, that is, those who have risen up and talked to them. If you really want dialogue, dare to discuss with ordinary citizens the collectives that have risen up with your attitude. Dialogue, however, you know, is not the way to escape and rinse our crimes. He demands courage and requires honesty. So go, as I have done, to discuss with those who have been in existence for almost a year the results of your policy in the field of culture. And do not present to us here fifty-six signatures, most of which are supervised entities, appointed by Ms. Mendoni. First, by presenting us with fifty-six who support it, you show us that a thousand fifty-six are across the street. Don't you understand that? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And as for the political culture that you remembered in the midst of the consequences of the scandal, I raise my hands up. You also have a personal history of dialogue and political culture here in Parliament. While you were chief of the opposition officer you had turned into a permanent transponder within the House of Internet troll arguments. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] From your mouth, Mr Mitsotakis, who is now glorifying the quality of the arguments, did not the incredible slander come out of this one at the moment that we exchanged Macedonia with pensions? And now you come to teach me morals about the public debate and the quality of the arguments? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] From your mouth, which is now buying for the quality of public dialogue, did not the transfer of the publications of "MAKELEIOU" come to Parliament at this time and the attempt at moral dissociation of my dead father as a so-called partner of the junta? Didn't you say that? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And you are now coming to abdicate us - and in particular to abdicate me - on what goes on in social networks you who have not just tolerated, not just adopted, but have put your signature on and reproduced these misery within Parliament. I therefore believe that this goes beyond hypocrisy and enters the territory of locusts. But I've said since the beginning of my speech...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, allow me to remind you of the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u15	I have said since the beginning of my speech that today I want more to address those who are following us. It's, I believe, very much of an interest. For this reason, Mr President, I will do my best to shorten up, but it is a little difficult to ask this debate to speak less than in others.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u16	We're talking more than the others.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u17	I would therefore like to put the optimistic side to the fact that this movement, this outburst, will upset us, it will hurt us, but it will make us all better, as long as we are not afraid to open the debate in depth and to support the clearance to the end. In these days, though, artists, people of cultures have not only highlighted issues of sexual and work exploitation that have taken place for years in their area. They also highlighted the job insecurity, the working jungle with which the Left has been fighting for years. So this debate must be opened in depth, much more so that such detestable phenomena do not only exist in the field of art and sport, but in the whole of society, where the workers, some who, as you have recently discovered, are dependent on their wages and make them difficult to cope with with a poor wage. The wave of revelations, culminating in the Mendoni-Lingnadis scandal, brought to the surface some of our democracy and society issues: If artists, for example, will be truly free to express their talent, but also their social and political criticism. If dignity will be protected with greater rigour and considered an integral part of work. If women will finally be able to enjoy full rights and not live in fear of sexual harassment and assault. If men and women homosexuals will not be forced to live in the dark, slandered as Chinaans, as a Member of your Parliament wrote the other day and as being blown up by criminals and treated as waste. These issues we have to discuss at some point. In any case, however, from today's debate, the people of culture, but also the society that is watching us, must receive a clear message. They must take the message that the authoritarianism of power, which can hide crimes and hollow scandals, proving, in fact, and highlighting the exquisite perpetrators of scandals, has a limit. And this limit, the red line of truth, is the resistance of all of us, starting with personal courage, personal power to collective action. We therefore want, after this debate, all of us who have suffered this kind of cruel abuse to know that they will have our support. We want to raise a barrier to humanity, solidarity and justice to the perpetrators... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] ...which use their little or great power, their little or great relationships with power to collapse bodies and souls. That is why - and I close, Mr President - it was an unfortunate option to try to escape today, Mr Mitsotakis, from your responsibilities, by turning the debate on such an intimate scandal into a debate on the quality of political dialogue. And it was unfortunate, because everyone in this country understands that the problem is not words, but the problem is your actions, your actions. Your government's actions are the problem. For these actions you, not me, Mrs Gennimata, Mr Koutsoubas, Mr Varoufakis, the political leaders, must apologise not only for the Lignade issue, for your actions in general, for your actions in the pandemic, for economic and social catastrophe, for the police who face students as criminals in universities, for the violation of rights and the possibility of becoming the first European country - after Britain - with a deadly hunger strikeer, for the change of working relations, for the outstanding pensions you have doubled, for social poverty, for the'swirlide' in the Aegean Sea by Turkish ships. For them, for these acts! I could say here about dozens of acts. These actions are unacceptable and vulgar! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] They are unacceptable and vulgar for citizens, for workers, for small and medium-sized enterprises, for farmers, for professionals, for entrepreneurs. Your actions for them constitute vulgarity, since they are wronged and crushed. It is not, therefore, the quality of dialogue, but the content of your government's actions and policies is the problem. That is why you must speak and apologize. It is not the dark world of the internet that has another side, because if it wasn't for him to be made public today, but it is the raw, living, clean, unbearable reality experienced by the citizens that we need to change. Unfortunately, you don't understand it, but that's the way it is. The serious problems you are creating or what you cannot solve with your policies and your behaviour are the fertilizer for criticism against you. You, with your choices, with your arrogant behavior, reduced reflexes and low consciousness, are their feeders. So don't look for those responsible in opposition! Search the blame for your policies, your government, within you! The vulgars are inside the walls, not out. Do, then, self - criticism, do not seek responsibility for others! Don't throw the ball on the platform! The problem is you, not the others, you and you alone, and that is where the clearance must begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u18	We will call on the President of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party, Mr Fotini Gennamata, and ask again for the time to be respected, because we have all decided that at 15.45 this meeting must be over. Here, Mrs. Gennamas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u19	You invited us today, Prime Minister, as you wrote, to inform us of the quality of democracy and political dialogue. Before all, I would like to say that what we have followed today has been the last thing our democracy and political dialogue needed. Your move of provocative and deeply hypocritical, particularly provoking at a time when the crisis has erupted, with the world restless and desperate for its health, everyday life, its work, income, survival, home, family, at a time when Turkey is reminiscing again in the Aegean Sea – the TSAME is about to reach Lavrio - even a few days before the operation - is supposed to - of the new round of exploratory talks in Athens. You have not ensured Turkey's commitment, as you should have said, that it will avoid new provocative actions. Your move is also hypocritical, because you want to inform us of the continuing vulnerability you set up with SYRIZA. True, in trying to turn the eyes away from the problems, you find it willing to ally the Civic Antipolitics. This isn't the first time. One looks more and more like the other, I told you again. Allies to a dead-end confrontation, with empty CV reforms, common perception of the role of the state, but also of the morality of power. I understand the position you are in with what is happening in the country, which question your government's ability to respond to its role in substance. However, from this point on until you consider that the major issue concerning the quality of our democracy and political dialogue is an opportunity to inform Parliament on your part, this also affects Parliament and democracy, especially at this time when, as we live, we are left with speeches like the entire Greek society. And it's even more hypocritical, because the quality of public dialogue and the one-saleing information with purchased propaganda from your government, they just don't compromise, they don't coexist. How do we do it? The citizens now know that the so-called frontal conflict, which breaks down with the uninjurious your propaganda, is a false bubble. The two so - called gladiators, naked of positions, hide their nakedness with meaningless, fat attacks. And you dare talk about quality of speech and democracy - the New Democracy and the SYRIZA - for fighting our prolongation without moral norms and barriers in the time of the crisis. You two are responsible for the current situation. And worst of all, it's obvious, as someone listens to you and watches you, that you're unrepentant. And that is where the greatest danger lies. You are away from the anguish of society, away from the demands of young people, away from the economic suffering of hundreds of thousands of workers and of course small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. A blue SYRIZA every day flips out of Maximus. What have we watched all these days? A party operation of the Greek "Me Too" with intercategories, converging, dangerous to our political life-threatening party smallness, a stirred duplicate that has long been stirring up and degrading the political life of the country. We saw unacceptable dirt launched, mud in the fan from the well-known "pistols" of SYRIZA. Absolutely condemned the pastag and at the same time completely foolish, because he gave the best lifesaving right now to the government. That's what it looks like today. And we saw on the other hand the pitfalls of the New Democracy underneath the zone. Trolls, footshop and other athletics in the service of this whole case. What we understand is that with your tactics, at the end of the day you do not want to change anything at all. We will not, however, allow you to bury the issue under tons of political mud. We do not need a division here, which despises the substance of a very serious problem, underestimates the tragedy of their victims and families and ultimately prevents other closed mouths from being opened. That's what's going on with the turn that's taken all this conversation. It is a great moment because a real movement of people is born, generally women, but also a whole fragile one, which breaks the veil of silence that has covered for many years a horrific act of insulting the very human existence, with carpets of all kinds of power, scattered in many aspects and areas of social life. That's a movement that needs to be free and ungrateful. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Our debt is huge. This movement must not be locked into temporary party agendas. We should listen to the voices of the victims with respect and defend them together, arm them with the necessary guarantees of a rule of law, and finally stand as a political system to the extent of circumstances. The government and the Prime Minister, at the very first moment in the Lignad case, have shown frugal and delayed reaction and have refused to take the political responsibility they have objectively behind all abuses, regardless of sex. There is the silence of society, but also the stigma of a state that is tolerated, which does not seek, regulate, does not protect, much more, when the person alleged as a perpetrator is a person holding public office by political decision, appointed by the government, approved by the relevant Minister of Culture. And such an appointment is particularly awkward when this government, the Government of New Democracy, moves the flag of well-advertised excellence. There is no doubt that the Minister for Culture is responsible, even if he has been misled. The gentleman, however, is the Prime Minister who covers her. Why is he covering for her? We understand why. He is the inspiration of the so-called state of service, which in practice hides the beginning of a man, he is the inspiration and director of an institutional tragedy that exposes the country daily to danger. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the Change Movement have not now dealt with the issues of dealing with violence, abuse of power, sexual harassment. Since last November, at a special event on violence against women, I have talked about a pandemic in the pandemic. Since then, on the initiative of the Group of the European Parliament, we have asked before all of us for the own-initiative intervention of the judiciary on complaints and a sworn administrative examination at the Ministry of Culture for their investigation, an update on the relevant police investigation in 2012. Answers, of course, we didn't. We have asked that the 190 Convention on the Elimination of Violence and Harassment at Work be ratified immediately by Parliament, that the Criminal Code should change, as regards the description, penalties and limitation of sexual violence offences, particularly against minors, that there should be concrete measures to protect victims, strengthen and develop structures, support lines, counselling and hosting hostels for victims, for women in all the municipalities in the country where our parade began for decades, bring sexual education to schools and special seminars and information on the subject of harassment. Many of these have already been mentioned, Prime Minister. We will be here to vote on it. Of course, you did not say a word about how to appoint people to such positions of responsibility. Do you agree that you should continue the same practice? You don't understand how exposed you are? Our position is clear: no tolerance, no cover, no concealment, no clearing. All in the light. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already said, I was particularly surprised that in his letter for today's debate the Prime Minister raised the quality of democracy and public dialogue as a matter of quality. Did we expect him to do his self-criticism for the part of his responsibilities for what is happening in public life? Not even by the way. And, unfortunately, we didn't disprove. Mr Mitsotakis has asked for today's debate to come out of the political strife of days both in the Lignadis case and because of the total weakness of the state in bad weather and not just. It is starting to look at the deadlocks of its policy in all areas. The real tragedy lies in the inspiration and construction of a complete hydrocephalal bubble. Concentration and inability go hand in hand: Hundreds of supposedly excellent in Maximus, Maximus puppet ministers, Secretary-General and Secretary-General of Maximus, public information and national security - where else? - in Maximus. Public relations and government propaganda with money, of course, taxpayers are decided on in Maximos. Citizens are invited to believe in the Prime Minister's personal abilities when there are successes. In failures again, they must believe in the synergy of factors that politics cannot deal with. They're getting over it. And here's the results. We are the country with the largest quarantine, and instead of the cases falling, they are increasing, even when government officials were talking about opening up. Whether you don't know what happens to you or disorientate the world deliberately. The "opened" you apply does not lead anywhere, without massively targeted tests, proper tracking, staffing of critical services and infrastructure, without strong primary care. The national health system is in red. Public health has paralyzed. Examinations, surgery, treatments are postponed. You didn't hear about the crowding in schools and in the means of transport. You refused to take action and returned exactly to the same mistakes. The Government systematically invokes experts to justify its decisions. Politics is being healed. So is the lives of the citizens. Politics is not responsible, and only the experts are responsible. Bad civilians, bad developments. In vaccination, vulnerable groups have not taken a priority order. And since I'm talking about the subject, will you explain to us, Mr. Mitsotakis, how he managed to be vaccinated out of line elsewhere than his place of residence, your blue manager, Mr. Hadjimarkos, while thousands of Greeks are anxiously awaiting their order for the vaccine? And don't tell me that they had excess vaccines and they shouldn't be thrown away, because, as I know, the Halki doctor responsible for vaccination said in an interview that no vaccines left, but that Mr. Hadjimarkos had been included in the condition of the vaccines. If that is the case, Mr Mitsotakis, will you tell us who is responsible for the training of vaccination cases? Will you disapprove your district chief? You also failed to manage natural disasters. Wet - snow measure dead, damaged households and properties. And in the case of 'January' and in the case of 'Medea' your services have come back to make remarks and suggestions about how we should make opposition. The mechanism of civil protection you have adopted remains a letter of intent. While you were aware of the time and intensity of phenomena, the design was exhausted in the closure of the national road. The state has a switch that we can open and close, without even sending a sms and warning the people who have been trapped in their cars for hours. You've got the 112, but you didn't have a plan. Last time you decided to close it and you didn't even have a plan for how you're going to do that. Hundreds of thousands of people have been left without power for days. Could you do anything else? Of course. And if you want a positive example, I'll take you back a lot. You can only see the successful management carried out by PASOK in 1999 in the greatest disaster in Attica, in the earthquakes. And of course, from then on, this thing has never been done in Attica before. The independent authorities supervising the market and competition are silent. Full immunity to the banks. Restore partyism to self-government. Degradation of the AACC and return to the "blue" interview. Re-establishment of the state by means of armies of blue convoys. Three hundred and fifty thousand pensions are pending, with a mess on the EFCA, which has no precedent. Small and medium-sized enterprises are being pushed to the galaxy of lending without result. Where you cannot create institutions and convince society, elsewhere you move the finger and elsewhere you are recruiting the "law and order". In the squares, streets, in the universities you are baptizing police rule while you yourself are acting as you treat Parnitha and Ikaria. On corruption issues, it is surprising that the positions of the International Transparency published on 7 December concern the Government Procurement Bill. The increase in the limit of direct awards from EUR 20,000 to EUR 30,000 for procurements and EUR 60,000 for projects, the non-institution of contracts worth less than EUR 2,500 and the non-predictable exclusion of contractors to which sanctions have been imposed for economic crimes are a heavy stigma for government initiatives. You have abolished social dialogue. You've made work relations worse. I would remind you of the 'half the wage, half the work'. You don't like it, but it's true. You failed to restrain unemployment and the locks. You are preparing a new insurance without any reference to the transfer cost. Who's gonna pay for the new capital system? You are preparing a society of impoverished pensioners and poor workers. You're one-stopping the briefing. You are trying to convince the citizens that there is a representation crisis, which is not about your own excellent people, but about the rest of the 'unresponsible' - in in introductory, apparently political, opposition conceived. You're smacking us all together. The citizens must be persuaded that, if the executives who are framed by Mr Mitsotakis are not able to do so, then nobody can. Yeah, we saw your mess! Even Ministers are enlisting you some channels as commentators of the positions of the Change Movement, since, of course, rarely our representatives are hosted in morning TV panels. With or without news directors, these are unprecedented things, outside the sphere of journalistic ethics, political morality, constitutional pluralism. You do not even respect the pretexts and want to discuss the quality of democracy and public dialogue. But you know that daily praisers are not going to save you - they will go bankrupt and before you, they have all been heard - as they have not saved you on the issue of unacceptable behaviour in Ikaria, because social media have forced them to present themselves with a heavy heart, of course, the subject. This is the drama of your state of staff, of the state that corresponds to you and of Maximos, which was built as a control structure and ends up with a source of risk, inefficiency, opacity, anti-democratic and anti-democratic attitude, which is based on a new anti-political attitude, which is an addiction to the policy of parliamentary rules and accustomed to it in the iso-democratic view that, since everyone is the same, let us govern the one who can finally do so without limits. However, the efforts of the New Democracy Government to promote the refusal of politics as its political and ideological weapon is being exhausted. You can no longer fool everyone forever. In any case - and I close with this - do not you talk about the quality of democracy and public dialogue, because first you have undermined these concepts, first you have shown state-of-the-art behaviors in the logic that 'the state is me', continuing exactly the same pattern of state-of-the-art behaviour, the logic of your predecessors, the government of SYRIZA condemned by the Greek people, and that is why you have voted for it because it was waiting to see something different. But he sees one of the same. So in these regiment practices you will find us dynamically against all our forces! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u20	We would also like to thank Mrs Gennamas for her speech and for the time she has taken. The President of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, Mr Dimitris Koutsoubas, is now called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u21	We want, first of all, to express our solidarity and support to all and all, those who, with their brave attitude, have opened the way to the light of dreadful acts, to finally bring the guilty to justice, in order to highlight the political responsibilities for a reality which is unpleasant, for a reality of economic, social, labour, legislation, which not only produces perpetrators and victims, but also blackmails their silence. The Prime Minister said the government withdrew and led Lignade to justice. No, Mr Mitsotakis, Lignade withdrew him and led him to justice, his victims and the outcry of the people who contributed to the whole thing. You were forced to move behind developments in order to hide your political responsibilities, yours and your Minister, both in the option of not complying with the necessary transparent procedures and maintaining such a person in a leading position of responsibility in theatre and culture. You have political responsibilities, Mr Mitsotakis, since you were aware of the handling of the Minister in this particular matter, when the scandal began to come to light and, of course, to pass through the whispers and rumours of the most specific complaints. It is in the duty of the Prime Minister, we believe, to intervene when he sees a minister handling a question wrongly, especially so serious and so repulsive, correcting it, orientating it and directing it. But that's not how it happened. And there are legitimate questions. That is quite simply what the entire Greek people, the whole world, think about today in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, from the very beginning to the JRC we stressed the following: apart from the victims and the perpetrators, the lights must also be turned on all those social and economic coercion that facilitates the perpetrators and, above all, the victims. And who are they? It is the job jungle, insecurity, the insecurity, the incompetence of victims, the inadequate criminal context, the commercialisation of culture, sport, and even the commercialisation of human sexuality. These are all the 'therm-growth' of such behaviours and phenomena. And let us think about this: If an Olympian person, if one or a recognised actor is forced to silence and bury within him for years the horrible experiences he has experienced, really, what courage does a worker, an employee, a simple worker to react, denounce, reject such forms of violence? However, how hypocrisy there are from some allegedly sensitive media, some broadcasts and not only, which have now discovered these phenomena, while so many years are complaints of workers, unions, mass operators for similar situations in different workplaces and for which they have not spent a second. Neither a word about the employer's violence that workers are experiencing in the so-called 'weightly tourism industry' nor a voice about the extortion of hotel and food chains, which, according to their profits, are inconvenient even in the clothing of women's employees for attracting, you see, clientele as they say. Not a word about the pressures on star hotels, restaurants where girls are forced to work on aprons where they even carry unacceptable sex logos. The theatre and the cultural dance in general are, of course, not an exception. Behind the ramp's lights, there is a working immunity regime, with unpaid rehearsals, with undeclared work, with few hours of euros for the majority of workers in the area. There is a hard work place, where the fear of unemployment prevails, labour economic insecurity, the risk of exclusion from work, which can lead to tolerance and which, of course, is strengthened by the absence of labour rights. All of this is that they turn workers and theatre into easily victims. This whole world for a year, with the restrictive measures you have taken for the pandemic, remains completely unprotected with your own responsibility. They are the actors, the singers, the dancers, the technicians, all the civilization workers, who, on the one hand, were found without work, without income, and today they are at the limit of survival. Anger and indignation also provoke the appalling incidents of sexual harassment among minors and boys even in the field of education. It is also unacceptable, however, that the efforts made by some to identify homosexual sexual orientation with impunity and exploitation at the expense of adolescents, with paedophilia. The above incidents and their scope in workplaces, in education, culture, sport, elsewhere, prove that this is not just a matter of extreme individual behaviour. This approach is very convenient. We show monsters, but we hide the society that gives birth to monsters. We will say this again: there is a deeper social and economic background that facilitates the perpetrators, because they know that the dreams, the course of a young man, a woman or a man, education, work, sport, culture depend on economic and social pressures, are dependent on the various strong economic and political factors of power in all these areas. This stench, however, is not only dealt with by any strictening of the legal framework. We are not underestimated, of course, at all on this side. But, beyond the legal framework, the victim has to deal with many of his intentions until the perpetrator's final conviction, from a possible police arbitrariness to long-term legal proceedings, which discourage him from denounce the incident to a legal level. This proves the horrific position in which they are victims of rape, particularly in the region, which must wait days to even get a medical examination and be able to support their complaint. How will a woman, a young woman, a new one before and after complainting such incidents, be supported when the minimum government infrastructure and services for the full support of victims, namely legal, advisory, psychological, remain completely subordinated? Today's debate in this House cannot be used as an alibi for the choices of all the governments to date that restrict any financing of such social structures in European programmes with an end date and also for a multitude of non-governmental organisations. And because some fall out of clouds supposedly about the role of NGOs here and now, ladies and gentlemen of the government, make a decision on the removal of NGOs from the protection of minors, victims of abuse, refugees and so on. Here and now proceed to the brave funding from the state budget for exclusively public free social services to prevent, protect victims of violence, i.e. information programs in schools and schools, advisory services, hostels for abused women and others. Here you are measuring the protection of women, minors and girls from the violence of all forms with the logic of cost for your own state, in other words, the business people who support you. For example, the International Convention against Violence and Harassment at the workplace you are about to ratify in Parliament has as an incentive, particularly, to promote sustainable businesses, which may not be the case, that is to say, companies and their productivity decrease. Mercy! So you hide the rot, the stench that breaths out of this miserable, corrupt system that you serve and reproduce. Against all this, you've been accountable to everyone who's been in the government chairs all the previous years. And let some try to appear now as innocent pigeons. And because there is a lot of talk among the others about the criminal dealing with the offences that have to do with the violation of the sexual freedom and economic exploitation of sexual life, let us see some fundamental changes made to the new criminal code that SYRIZA voted for and which - alas - has been maintained by the New Democracy when it became government. First of all, with the general and indiscriminate horizontal reduction in the penalties for felony from twenty to fifteen years, maximum penalties have been reduced, even for criminal offences, in the name of allegedly humanitarian treatment of the convicted, but in fact, with a view to more systematic decongested prisons being dismantled. The new article on rape, 336 of the Criminal Code introduced stricter conditions to haunt crime, as it now calls for a threat of serious and immediate risk of life and physical integrity and not a general risk as it was. A new special provision was introduced on the basis of which the non-consent of the victim without the assistance of the other conditions is provided for as a special case of the basic offence, and indeed with a reduced penalty framework. In this way, however, not only did the modern and good international legal approach not take place, an approach which stipulates that the victim's lack of consent must be the basic condition for the offence of rape, but instead it was divided into a lesser crime, whereas sexual harassment at the workplace, that is to say, a person who depends on him or who exploits the need for a person to work, a victim's assault is required and is not automatically persecuted. However, even in the crime of rape being persecuted on its own hand, the possibility was maintained if the person concerned claims that he does not want the prosecution, that the prosecutor would abstain from it. In fact, this is projected in the name of preservation - he says - the personality of the victim who fears that publicity will cause irreparable harm to his face. In any case, New Democracy and SYRIZA have not been reduced, they have provokedly maintained low sentences for violent crimes. The offence of sexual dignity, 337 of the Criminal Code, remains a punishment of up to two years, even when the victim is a minor. Finally, deafening is the responsibility of the New Democracy and SYRIZA for the issues of the limitation of the above offences as a result of the conversion of several of them into delinquents and the obligation to file a complaint, since, as is well known, those of a delinquent nature are normally postponed after five years of the act and the felony after fifteen years. In the case where indictment is required if this is not done within three months of the end of the act, the criminal offence is eliminated. The new provision of the Criminal Code not only shrinks by three years the limitation of felonies with victims of minors, but also abolishes the suspension of limitations completely for the offences against minors. It is provocative, however, that the new Criminal Code has reduced the period of limitation of criminal acts against minors, after the provision that existed before and provided that the limitation period for such offences is suspended until the victim is underage and for one year after the victim has been injured and for three years after a felony. Ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to turn to the subject of public dialogue, as today's debate has been called by you, Prime Minister, on public dialogue, particularly the public dialogue in social media. You know very well, like all the Greek people, that the JRC chooses public, tough, ideological and political confrontation with your policy and within and above all outside this Chamber where most of them are judged. You also know that we do not adopt easy and unfounded misery that is widely reproduced by supposedly innocent montaziers to make news and blackmails. Others are the ones who have this misery as their second nature. Some people know them very well, Mr. Mitsotakis. I read post a close partner, your MP, not some troll, but your MP, Mr. Lazarides, who a few days ago did this. It's a post taken out of the boulder of Nazi goldyingism. So he wrote this unexplained type: "Actuality is that Mars Velouchoti had him in their office." In fact, the Member also referred to a relevant article in a well-known online dump. He's also been searched except for sprayed, terrified of him. Rejoice him! He dared to put in his mouth the hero of the grand National Resistance against the Nazi German occupation, whose statue worlds Lamia city and his name is legendary and was sang by all our people, except fascists and battalists. I am reading to you what another Member of Parliament said on November 17, 2020, about the anniversary of the Polytechnic School: "A thousand five hundred prospective killers of the JRC," he said, referring to the event that took place at the time and with all protection measures. He also put the JRC Parliamentary Group in place, which participated there in a pool. We therefore admire the quality of public neo-democratic speech. This, really, what do you call it? Otto, categorically, politically and politically? Tell us how you characterize them. If you do not direct them immediately, you can tolerate them and cultivate them. The New Democracy has been watering all this mole, especially through its social media mechanisms. So please, now, please, why don't you not know who's being recruiting bad, racist, misanthropic comments on social networks. More and more of your executives resort to such misery to "squee" a piece that is politically homeless, after the condemnation of the criminal organization of the Nazi Golden Dawn. But that's no excuse. Your shame and shame is that you choose such a tactic. Let's not talk about your anonymous and branded troll and the misery they're retiring. So don't get hurt now for SYRIZA's trolls, which have copy-paste anyway, and those who always had the KKE and the consistent Left in their sights. The disgusting and abstraction that many people feel about the character of confrontation among you is equal to the disgustingness they feel about the events that come out of the surface. Perhaps someone who can afford to see the debate in Parliament, because so much rot and stench. We are telling you that we no longer have any impression, because the closer the two poles of this urban political system there is so much approach to critical issues about the present and future of the people, the more you will resort to the conflict of the bourgeois. And, of course, you are again the same, those who choose the gutter to recruit and the MATs, repression, authoritarianism, terrorism and slander, making use of the well-known "false" when some rise head when some resist and protest with their clubs, their institutions, their student clubs, their student councils. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Just one word on this matter. Do not think in the name of allegedly regulating the public dialogue to attempt to impose measures to limit the voice of trade unions, political parties, forms that exercise substantial, hard but clean and honest criticism of your anti-French politics and your various allies in the European Union, NATO. And you know very well that this criticism has nothing to do with anything on or against anyone else. Because, ultimately, what you are bringing as a framework to deal with existing problems - a woe - leads permanently to suffocation or to some kind of suffocation. We are not generally against the introduction of rules, but against the rules made by your governments - and yours - we have absolutely no confidence. We warn that you will eventually lead to the codes of conduct you process - that the Greek people will know - where the online and artistic terrorist that you validated a week ago for art and audiovisual content, that is to say, almost every post of undeservedness to you who can be on the Internet. And don't start again saying that the JRC sees ghosts, because with this Euro-Union legislative framework signed by both of you - and the New Democracy and the SYRIZA - a week ago in Spain he was imprisoned an artist because, with his lyrics, he says, the monarchy, the king and the queen. Where are we? In the middle ages? Yes, that's what happens in Spain of progressive governance, Mr. Tsipras. Take care of them too, after a mere political support you provide to your ruling central left-wing Spanish friends. Ladies and gentlemen, the bourgeoisie that reproduces violence against women and other socially vulnerable people, those that reproduce racism are not generally abstract and abstract, as is often heard, a crisis of the human values and morality of our society. They go from the law and the values cultivated by the present exploiting society of capitalist rota. They go from the law of this ruthless competition, of atomicism. It is the selfish way of life and thought that give birth to aggressive arrogance, the devaluation of a person's personality, and even violent behavior. That is why individual protection, condemnation and condemnation of multi-formal violence can and must be today elements of labour, popular neo-leasant struggle and not isolated or confronted with it. Because individual courage, endurance towards such phenomena can only be developed in the territory of collectiveness, collegiality, solidarity, which is the real safety net for every woman, every new and independently of sexual orientation. The protection shield is built within the struggle, the collective struggle for modern social needs, with brave, collective and individual self-criticism and criticism, with retraining and the creation of a new man's step in a truly free society tomorrow and creative in all respects, so that we can reach a society that does not fit either fear, sexism, racism, violence, a society that is truly free from exploitation and from any social inequality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u22	Thank you too, Mr. Kutsuba. Until the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos arrives at Step, I would like to make a statement to this House: The Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs "Organization and functioning of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Council of the Greek Democratic Republic, and the regulation of issues of international development cooperation and humanitarian aid". Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. I imagine that everyone's condemnation of what Mr. Amyras suffered is self-evident, with what you know. The hoodmen came in, broke his offices. It has now become a way of doing this, and it must be condemned by all the parties, wherever any violence comes from, whether or not we agree, ideologically or politically, with some. I will do something today that no political leader has dared to do. I'm gonna do what I had to do, apologize to all the Greeks. We apologise for the uncertainties, the mistakes and the fact that we left space on monsters, dirty people - I say it directly - to play with innocent children's souls. All we hear about Mr. Lignade, if any, is disgusting, burdensome, is pathetic, because we all have children, others may have grandchildren or nephews, but indeed if what seems to have done so, I apologise on behalf of all Greeks and the Greeks. I apologise for what we did not do for the homeless, who even now sleep out in the cold. I apologise to the poor who for decades have been Greece from a country with prosperity, with money, has been mathematically led to having hundreds of thousands of newly-poverted, fatal Greeks. I apologise for the last 12 years for what the governments have or have not done, their criminal mistakes. I apologise for the incarceration of the Greeks of last year. I am sorry that even now new children are leaving Greece for abroad, because the state cannot give them a job. I apologise for what Erdogan, Hitler, in the Aegean Sea, does and there is no politician to stand up and say 'up to here'. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I apologise to the Macedonians who gave up Macedonia's sacred name and no one said apologies, but many are being taken in for a proud agreement when the agreement is treacherous. Because today the Prime Minister asked us to talk about the quality of democracy and public dialogue, with one, I would say, a heavy title - so he invited us to talk - to tell him what democracy means. What democracy? What democracy are we talking about, gentlemen of the New Democracy and Prime Minister? Democracy dies every day at the place where it was born, in Greece, and you kill it. I'll prove it to you with evidence. Check all the media. In the context of the democratic dialogue - I will not say from the Constitution - rules are laid down through specific norms, which have been imposed for decades, to represent all parties on television. I will only tell you for the period 15 October to 6 November what happened on Greek television, for attendance on national television channels. I'm not putting in the presence of the ministers. The government's talking about democracy. I thank the Prime Minister, but I will prove to him with evidence and figures that democracy, at least television, is false, so that we do not go to the overall concept of democracy. New Democracy two hundred attendances, without the Ministers that have been made - I will say it directly - the journalists' co-workers in the early morning and come out every day. SYRIZA Ninety, KINAL nineteen, Greek Solution three. The three are about me. In the last three months, I repeat. It's evidence and you can find it. Prime Minister, I don't know how much that representation pleases you. New democracy 62% on the channels. 62%! We are talking about Maduro regimes, we are talking about North Korea, we are talking about the Soviet Union and the communist regime on Stalin. 62% present! SYRIZA 18%, CINAL 8.6%, KKE 1.7%, Greek Solution 0.7%, Mera25 1.4%. Is that a democracy? This is called 'female and abundant opposition as a whole'. What democracy can we discuss today, Prime Minister? We have reached the point today to agree, Prime Minister, with SKAI. I don't understand myself. I have come today to agree with SKAI, Mr Gerapititi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u24	Take a look at this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u25	Let me see this. You should see it, though, mostly. Because, Mr Gerapetti, for a year and a half you personally, having been talking to you and the New Democracy, the EPP has two fewer members. Why don't you see it? No members. It is said by SKAI, the channel of Mr. Gerapitris and the New Democracy. For five minutes in the news release they said what the Greek Solution said for a year and a half, and the New Democracy speaks of an ending state. What is the final state, Prime Minister and Mr Gerapetritis, when for a year and a half you cannot find two people in the PSE and operate as your channel, New Democracy, says? So, then, “the house of the hanged one is not talking about rope”, Mr. Gerapitrit. I'm not going to say the most famous post in "news". And I expect the Prime Minister to tell me: Is this machine taken by the Greek Police and published in "NEA" is a machine for democracy, to watch Viber and WhatsApp? How much did the software cost? What's the software? Is that what the company is being persecuted internationally? I will be tabling the relevant documents in the Minutes and I will be waiting for the Prime Minister for an answer. It's from the newspaper's publication "TANS". It's a newspaper of yours. You got machine - says - with special software to track Viber and WhatsApp. How democratic is it to monitor citizens? I'll say. Now I know what the government will tell me, that 'we are not watching the citizens, we are watching the agents or those who are in trouble for the national security of the country'. If you wanted to be believed, you would not put every illegal immigrant crossing the border with false data, paper and passports in Greece. Because you're putting the agents in Greece. It is no coincidence that three Turks were arrested in Aspropyrgos a few days ago with guns in their hands, with guns of normal American construction, who had applied for asylum a few months ago. These are contradictory. We will now go to the talks of the political leaders. I apologise again, because the political system is inferior to the circumstances. Of all the speeches I have heard, Prime Minister, you and Mr Tsipras - and I say this directly - personal confrontation with arguments that I did not expect to hear. You have not talked about the causes of the problem at all. You commented on the result. I want the politician to find the cause and heal it. Because with what you told us here, you don't cure the cause. You commented on the result. I apologise, therefore, for all the misery of the last days by the Greek people, because both SYRIZA and New Democracy have used photographs cut and stitched in their frame. Site of New Democracy used a take photograph of Mr. Tsipras, whoever is absent, next to Lignade. SYRIZA did the same. If, therefore, you think that we can build at least a serious political reason and a political confrontation, you are wrong. For this is how we have reached the point that the two largest parties of the Greek Parliament are being identified for involvement, automation or voluntary or inadvertent involvement in cases of childbirth. Because the intercategories have allowed it to be understood. So how will we be believed when SYRIZA takes pictures of me without proof that the Prime Minister is a friend of paedophiles and leaves impliedly and when the trolls of the New Democracy do the same to Mr. Tsipras? What democracy is this? I do not know whether we should find 'filters'. For me self-censorship in such cases is the major. No censorship politics. Here, I honestly say that, things have been called terrible. I've got the pictures in front of me so you don't think I'm saying what I want. One picture is the SYRIZA site that is taking Mr Lignade to the European Parliament. The Prime Minister said it was a photo that Lignade went. Here I have a photo from the New Democracy site that's made Cressados. Look at this. That's misery. Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Lignades next door. There's no such picture. It's a collage. It's a collage, Prime Minister. Listen a little bit to understand. We all have to condemn them - both of us and of us, all of us - if we want to be believers, Mr Gerapetti. Otherwise, we will take the most dirty thing there is in each other's patio, mud, bogus, lies, vulgarities to fight each other while the Turks do "part" in the Aegean Sea. I want to say this directly. The Greek Solution did not enter the Greek Parliament to make a populist policy on votes. We came in to make political sense and opposition reasonable! Nothing else! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Prime Minister, however, you made some mistakes during your speech. You kept talking about sexual violence. The rest of you did it. No, Prime Minister. Paediatric rape is another thing. And honestly, let's clear up concepts and terms in here. Where and how far, my professor, pediatrician, the rapist of a child? Is he a kid's lover? Or is pedophile a friend of the child? Oh, no. It's called childbirth. The Greek language is clear. Paedophile is the child's friend. They're pediatricians, they're monsters and they don't deserve any treatment from us positive! They're pediatricians! And I say this because I am now suddenly learning that a strange situation is taking place. They disappear - says - the witnesses, the pathogens disappear. In the end, they will say that they were also minors, ladies and gentlemen. They also put a well-known lawyer who makes the fish easily or makes the white fish and they will also be accused of perjury by those who denounced what they denounced. Why? I'll tell you what. They've become uncertain. There have been heavy miscarriages, which I repeat are a matter of police and justice. I don't want to believe it's a matter of government. You can't confiscate the computer in his house. You can't take his phone. I'm saying this because by listening to these people, they're starting to have no quarrel, but they're starting to think that some people want to cover up the story and we're all to blame. I'm not going to get into that logic of blame for some criminal mistakes. This is unbelievable. One of them was deceived. Mrs. Mendoni. Our Prime Minister was delusional. With deceitful and deceiving you can't rule. You can't rule! You can't! So I'll say some truths too. Honestly, for Mrs Mendoni, Prime Minister, I would say that if there were political ethics, she had to resign. She's not a political person you'll tell me. Okay, he's a service agent that you made her a minister. But you are going out, Prime Minister, and you say that it has the support of many of your ministers and many intellectuals. I'll tell you that among these intellectuals I saw a couple of strange names, Prime Minister. I won't say the name. But I'll say what he said about the Prespecies Agreement. Mrs Soti Triantafyllou, one of the signatories to the letter, which you tabled, Prime Minister, in the Minutes, was in favour of the Ambassadors' agreement. And you call on the names of people who are in favour of the Prespecies Agreement to support Mendoni? I see a contradiction in the argument because I know that the New Democracy, Prime Minister, has never been in favour of the Ambassadors' agreement. Unless it was and you're lying again. Because now, if you're not really in favour of the Prespecies Agreement, you have to bring in the Committee of Inquiry. Let's go to the next one. You also said that Mrs Mendonian Minister helped remove the works. Let me tell you, Prime Minister, what Mrs Mendoni was doing as Secretary-General to the Ministry and Minister. Don't forget that she's Mr. Venizelos' man, Mrs. Mendoni. There is a relationship between the government and Mr Venizelos of particular lust. We know that. But it doesn't matter. Let's actually go. In 1997, as Secretary-General of the Ministry, Mrs Mendoni stops excavations in Stagira. In 2002, he smashed the grave of Ancient Pellana in Laconia. Look a little bit at this. And how did she mess it up with her orders? With carpets. As a historian, I know that the carpet is doing damage to the burial monument. The archaeologist Mr Spiropoulos reported it, the man who excavated the area. In 2011, he smashed the altar of the Twelve gods. In 2013, he broke the temple of Thronakos Apollo. He'll say he did it for life construction. It's a lie. False. He approved space disasters in Koliad Akra to Mr. Latsi. In 2020 he was involved in transferring antiquities from the Venizelos station. I know that. Crime is happening in the area. We're getting past it. So we arrive a few months ago, and it's cementing the Acropolis. Cement on the Acropolis! And it's not just cement. After twenty, twenty-five days he flooded. And the Prime Minister came here to say he did a job with the Acropolis because people with disabilities can go. I'm sorry, clearly, and people with disabilities should be able to go there. They gave her a specific study, as Italians do in Rome, as they do in their archaeological sites, without cement. Cement in the Acropolis, and the Turks didn't put it. They had a special mortar in antiquity. It was called in a special way by everyone you know from history. I'm saying this to understand that you can't say that Mendoni did well. He lent antiquities for decades. The Turkish authorities carried out excavations in Asia Minor from Ponto to Zing and the Greek Ministry of Ms. Mendoni invested 50 million in teens. If the New Democracy is being seized for the work of Mendoni, I would say that something is wrong. Something's wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, after all I have said, we really need to see what state you have built. From 1974 to today, a youth - Greece, not Greece, has been created, not Greece as we all want it. A state was built unharmed and not firm. A state without national morality was built. It is important that a state should have and the citizens of national morality. I now hear the former Minister coming out here and say "Lefteria to Koufontina!" It's an ideological concept. A serial killer has human rights, they say, "Late to Koufontina!". But if I listened to "Late in Cyprus!", "Late on the Northern continent!" Let me say that something is going well anyway. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I cannot hear concepts and expressions that are inconsistent with national morality. You've built a state of nationally populated and morally stirred. This state was built from '74 to today without treatment, without respect, without ideals and no values. There are Members here looking for minorities across Greece, if there are minorities, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Greek Parliament. But the Members themselves did not dare to speak of the Greek minority in the Northern continent. They don't dare say anything! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] They dared not say about the Greek minority in Skopje, which Gligorov himself mentioned five times in his interviews. We do not dare to talk about the cultural minority in Great Greece in Italy. But they're looking for minorities. Turkish minorities, Macedonian. Whatever gets them down in the head! A state was built in full rot, and it seems in recent years, a state that only cares about power and chair. And the citizen sees it, too, you know, that. It's not something I call it abstract. But it is not a state that serves the people who serve the country, the nation, the ideals and the values. A state without culture of social solidarity was built. "Come on, what do I care about?" is our popular expression. "I'll save the country? I have a Prime Minister, he will save her on his own." That's not how it works. We will make the criticism, we will make proposals to him, we will help, we will be across the street, but we need to understand something. We've built a state of anxieties, a state of party vultures. That's the reality. A state where one wants to eat each other for chair and power. State without excellence, Prime Minister, unfortunately for you, but with great pleasure see ERT, see DEDDIE, and dozens of directors who suddenly 'handed' them up just to help praetorians. A state was built that our children are led to the deadlocks of universities without a job hope. A state of dealing with teachers has been built, and if I lie, let me be disobeyed, at work level, of party choices, of transactions with the choice of saws that students are hostages of any political party to pass the courses. A state was built that justice depends on parties, which legislate on a purpose whatever crime and do, whatever illegality, and make politicians exist, and the limitation and acquittal by law, see the immunity of bankers. They're making seizures at the houses of the Greeks. But they've got nothing to do with it. Also, they cannot be afraid of judges in our country because the party disagrees with them. A state was built that in the army and police, your party friends have been growing up since 1974, with the consequence that worthy officers will leave and leave them in the corner, and unfortunately a few unworthy of being involved and intertwined with few of them, with people of the boot, mafia and Koza Nostra, even with organized crime. They're few, but there's also them. All of these interact with bad power, in the bad party sense of power. A Greek defeatist, a Greece that is retreating when Hitler - Erdogan's Turkey violates every concept of international law, violates the Aegean, upholds, rapes our continent and we are not talking. A country that tolerates its rape. This is the Greece of Transnationalism and we must change it. A Greece of injustice was built. You give 500 euros, Prime Minister, every illegal immigrant and the Greeks you confiscate. You take their homes for 1,000 or 2,000 euros. The Commission, by its own decision yesterday, is further pressing for auctions and foreclosures. Is that the Greece that you were visionating as a reformer, Prime Minister? I guess not. A Greek that bleeds every day inconsistently. Unfortunately, a Greece which is misled by our mistakes, I am also putting me in. And I blame, Prime Minister, the whole political system, too. We have built a new - Greece, not Greece. We need a four-year period to re-do Greece, your new-Greek Greece, to re-do Greece. That's what the Greek Solution is asking for four years. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And also, for the resignations of the ministers, I'm looking to find out when the last Minister was resigned to Greece and I can't find it. I read in Estonia the day before yesterday that the Minister of Education, Prime Minister, resigned because she took her children in the cold by the state car at school. This is what I wanted you to cultivate, Prime Minister, to the ministers, you as a new politician, to political emotiveness. That's what I wanted you to inflame them as the leader of your sidelines. That's what you have to tell them. I'm not going to say that the police broke into the finance minister in Austria because he had received some 10,000-20,000 euros from here and there. That means political emotiveness. Don't make fun of the world and we're like Napoleon, Prime Minister. Napoleon said: "When you make a mistake, you don't say I was wrong. You insist on the mistake to convince them that you did not make a mistake." Mendoni's story was a political mistake. I'm not talking about the rest, it's a matter of justice, it's a matter of court. But there were mobile mistakes, computers, too. Prime Minister, you are leading a family party, a party that said about home and religion, but a party that no longer has an ideological compass. You want to do, says, open right and left. I want the Greek people to listen, ladies and gentlemen, because I blame the New Democracy. He changed the Criminal Code in November 2019. The legislation on pediatricians is so flexible that in three years' time they will come out, ladies and gentlemen. Maximum ten says, but in three, four years he's out. If, indeed, you want to do deterrent legislation, not draconian laws, I will tell you what your leader, the beggar of your side for another case: When we say life, it will be life! The pediatrician will never see you again in the sun, fate! It's over! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] That's it, yes. We've told you since. We were yelling. You haven't changed it. But I want to say one more thing. Prime Minister, you're making mistakes. New Democracy, along with SYRIZA - you hear the merciful, to understand - can a 15-year-old child change sex. I say this to hear from the voters of the New Democracy, the familymen. A 15-year-old can change sex! Maybe. And let me tell you this: listen to the country's Greek irrationality, Prime Minister, and if you say that it's reasonable what you hear, I honestly take your hat off. Fifteen years you can change sex and have sex with a homosexual, seventeen years old you vote, eighteen years old driving a motorcycle and twenty-one years old you go to the casino. I mean, I'm changing sex at 15, but at twenty-one I'm going to the casino. At seventeen I vote, and at eighteen I get a motorcycle. What state is that? What legal law is that? What legal framework is that? And I say that, because when the University of New Jersey goes out and says the child can't at fifteen choose the gender change, the New Democracy, the party of traditions, values, voted in their fifteens to change sex. I disagree vertically - vertically! - not because I'm Orthodox. To choose each one in his bed what he wants is his choice. But now, talk to me about 15-year-old responsibilities, when I hear on the channels 'the pedophile, the pedophile, the fourteen-year-old, with the fifteen-year-old.' You cannot say to him "changed gender to fourteen, fifteen", but then you say "children". There's a contradiction. I won't tell the sentences. I will just say, for the Greek people to hear something, because I want to close early, because as far as I know the Prime Minister is concerned, I want to respect his time. So I won't say the sentences. Oh, no. But tell me, Mr. Prime Minister, as a father, what the penalty for a pedophile is. What's the sentence? What sentence is it worth in such a monster? And let me ask you one more question: A party of principle, a party of traditions, tell me you, Prime Minister, what is it about gay prides - tell me you - where I saw my own eyes in ten and ten years' time. Tell me why. There is also one saying, Prime Minister, with which I agree. What one does in bed, Prime Minister, does not concern us or should not concern us. But if you do it with 15-year-olds and fourteen-year-olds, it's our concern. It's the essence of our difference. And as a Orthodox Christian I can disagree with someone's choice. I will not impose on him, however, that my choice is fair and unjust. Don't force us the difference with the force. It can't be done. Diversity, diversity, diversity! Also, who gives money to the notorious gay prides? I won't tell Soros. The municipalities give the New Democracy as government and SYRIZA. Prime Minister, I have heard a Minister of yours - and I do not know if the New Democracy agrees - saying: 'In my face, the Prime Minister has honoured my difference'. That was his statement. I ask: could a leader like you tolerate a statement from a man that, because of his differentity, we made him a minister? Oh, no. Minister must be made - and it is done - the one who is effective. The Minister must be judged by his effectiveness, not by his differential, because then it is a racist conception of the others who are worthy and can do a job. That's what he said, your Minister. I'm not saying it. So the criterion is that. And in closing, I will read you now - to avoid misunderstanding about what I said - a very great Greek - I respected him very much - the late Christos Simardanis, who you may know. It was an excellent form. "I'm not proud to be gay..." - about "gay pride" said it, because I asked him why he didn't go there - "...you don't have to be proud of why you're straight. He must be proud..." - Listen! - "...if you're honest, even if you're honest." This one was gay. No one can be proud, he said, about what he's doing to his bed. Be proud because you're an honest, good man and a good father. So we have to say that that is why we are proud. To say that we are proud of honesty, honesty, because we are good fathers, good politicians and good Greeks. That's why we're proud. As for the rest, the "main", this excellent man, Shimardani - "the voice of the "MEGA"", I have his statement here, I leave it in the Minutes - marks our own perception. In closing, Prime Minister, you have said a number of suggestions that heal the result. I didn't hear any suggestions from you about the cause. The deterrence: Paediatricians will return from prison in three, four years, Prime Minister? Will you change the Criminal Law? Why am I saying that? The sixty-two-two-year-old, Mr President, who was arrested three days ago, who raped a child for four years and beaten it and feared the child to speak, will be punished on the basis of ten years, not on the basis of life. It's going to be three, four years and she's going out again. That is what we need to see, in order to be convincing, Prime Minister, that is what I expect you to say. The rest of you get past it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u26	Finish it, Mr. Velopoulou! I erased the time, it was twenty-eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u27	Yes, Mr. President. Also, Prime Minister - I am closing here - if the Greek Solution governs at some point for a four-year period, the first thing we will do is to abolish these pragmatic identities - which you have said again here and the "gay pride" and the different - from the Greek school. You don't have to, there's the Internet, there's the TV, there's the parents, there's no need in school to talk about diversity all the time, because if you read what American books say in schools, you'll understand what I mean. And also, our proposal - I insist, I will say it again and I close it here - is that you are a follower of vaccination, Prime Minister. Well you do, it's a concept, we'll see in the course who's right and who's wrong. The chemical castration we are proposing is a vaccine, it is injected and it is - yes, listen to me, Prime Minister - in Poland, England, Germany, France, Spain, on a voluntary basis, of course, but it is done. There is chemical castration or orchidomy among pedophiles, these monsters that touch five-year-old, four-year-old, six-year-old children, psychotic burnt, innocent souls! So to finish, my Prime Minister, if you succeed in fooling someone, it doesn't mean he's stupid. It just means he trusts you more than you deserve. And I repeat this in this: at least from now on you and your other ministers and the New Democracy must believe that you deserve the trust of the Greek people, because to this day, unfortunately, from what you are doing and from what you are saying, you are not believed. No excellent you're not, excellent you may be to some of your people, but you're not believed. In my dentistry, I will also speak about Turkey, because that is the problem, and that is where we need to insist a little more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr. Velopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u29	However, Prime Minister, we once again tell you: Do the debt, make the Greeks proud, because things are difficult!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u30	And we close the prototype of the Heads with the President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Varoufakis. Here, Mr. Varoufakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you force me to apologize publicly for something I said shortly after the elections in an optimistic way. I said that Mr. Mitsotakis gives me the image of a man who wants to show political culture. Very soon after that you have started a sequence of disguises, and today the way you handled this issue, unfortunately, is culminating in this disapproval. I have no doubt you've had a difficult week. However, whose adviser was it that you tried to change the climate by putting today as a debate not about 'Me Too', but about the quality of democracy and public dialogue and to appear here as a forensic forum for public dialogue and democracy? You are not a shepherd, Mr. Mitsotakis, you are a defendant on these issues. You are leading a government that hurts democracy systematically both within the parliament and outside the House. If you were interested in upgrading the quality of the dialogue between us, you would not have organised another cohort with Mr Tsipras today, because - badly lies - that is your purpose and yours and Mr Tsipras. You're both saying you don't want chicken fighting, but you're investing in them. If you wanted a serious debate, we would have a serious debate on a table with specific proposals such as those you are doing, and we would have our own debate. But you don't care about that. You bring political culture to the low level of Facebook, which is the post-modern café, now that it is closed, as Mr Tsipras said, the normal cafés. You do not understand that, when you dare to hand over a democracy lesson in this Chamber, you remember poachers who establish game protection companies. Ladies and gentlemen, in Mera25 political culture we experience it and apply it in practice. We are, as you know, far from the exams of spasm and are far from the cohort fights and man-phasics. We will not be participating in these today, Mr Mitsotakis. You won't hear me say that either you or Mrs. Mendonis knew. I can't believe you knew. And I won't even say you should know. You'd like to know. I can't tell what you knew. But I know one: First, Mera25 does not question the presumption of innocence and it does not stifle consciences. Secondly, when Sofia Bekaterou spoke, you called her in Maximos and did very well. But the other names of people who came out and denounced people you chose or your government chose, the state chose, why didn't you call them? I'd like to ask a question. You're investigating for the chauffeurs, which obviously aren't in charge of Maximus. That's what it sounds like. What are you doing? Will you call them at Maximos, if you can find them? You didn't do anything about them, not about the names of people who have made the complaints or the applicants. One thing is all we've seen from you all this time. So you are calling us here today to discuss the quality of democracy and parliamentaryism. But, Mr Mitsotakis, you and your ministers have made a habit of deceiving Parliament. I'll give some examples so I won't talk in general. In the first few months that we were here, after the July 2019 elections, I set a concrete example - I asked the Treasury in writing to answer a specific question: What are the public guarantees in the private banks IOUs, the systemic banks? Mr. Zavvos pretends he does not understand that when we talk about IOUs, we are talking about private bonds, which since 2008, since the era of Mr. Alouskoufi, all the Greek finance ministers - like me, when I was that five-month-old at the Ministry of Finance - were guaranteeing. And I asked you to tell me at that time, in 2019, what the active public guarantees were. Mr. Zavvos misled me. It has given me an answer that I am not even worth talking about. It was purely misleading for a specific issue, for a public guarantee to individuals. In another Parliament, Britain, Germany, there would be a removal of this particular misleading minister. This is the basil! As we speak of public guarantees, one year now I ask you to answer this specific question about the EUR 12 billion of HARAKEL's public guarantees in your friends' predators. And I tell you that, given the exponential increase in red loans - the sinking of this secondary market, together with SYRIZA - these EUR 12 billion at some point have to be activated, which is legally given, if you do not bring it, if you do not bring an amendment, something, a PPP - bring everything you want - to freeze this EUR 12 billion budget that goes to predators. Imagine in the midst of a pandemic that you will go and borrow from Mr. Regling another EUR 12 billion on behalf of private predators who will make this money in New Jersey and Delaware. I may have said nonsense. Tell me! Within twelve months, twenty times I have mentioned it in this Chamber. Jerk! No answer at all. I also have a third example of public guarantees. You came here in June, after the summit and you were triumphant about the EUR 72 billion you would get from Europe. I have given you a specific analysis, I have tabled it in the Minutes of the House, which shows that we will not receive aid of more than EUR 10 billion purely. I even told you that in 2021, at best you could get 3 billion euros. I was confirmed that Mr Stagioras, in the budget of the state, last December, signed just EUR 2.5 billion. No answer, though. Was the analysis correct? Was it wrong? If it was wrong, why don't you take me down with a proof that what I'm saying doesn't work? That's not a dialogue. You said something else, Prime Minister, in here, and I applauded it completely unwisely, because you did not mean it, as it proved. You said that we are interested in aid from the Recovery Fund, not loans, and we will not get them and that we do not need them. We don't want them. And yet, a few weeks ago, here, from this Step I read an article "Kathimerini", where there was a full report on the Ministry of Finance's teleconference with Brussels on how you get these 12 billion euros - another 12 billion euros are - a loan from the Recovery Fund for private individuals. No other government has requested loans from the Recovery Fund for private individuals. You did it. I won't judge it. It is simply disproved by your "KATHMERINA". Who's right? Or do you? I put the question. Soft for an answer. I have asked another question, if these EUR 12 billion from the Recovery Fund actually go to private individuals, as you ask, according to Kathimerini, not to "AGEI" or to "MARA25", will there be public guarantees? Jerk! This is the quality of public dialogue. Last week, here, I asked a much simpler question and much more humanised and without any opposition. I have put a simple question from fifty families of our compatriots from Lesvos who have asked me to transfer it to the government: They want to take home a family of refugees in the cold. Fifty families, that is, they want to take from a family of refugees and they don't leave them. The question was: Will you do something to allow these people to be taken home? Quiet. No yes or no, but the known crumb. Ladies and gentlemen, I could give hundreds of such examples. This government combines silence with distortion to kill the dialogue within the House. You are killing the equatoriality in this Chamber every day, building a stone - a stone - a dictatorship with a parliamentary cloak at the basis of your majority. And today, when you find them dark with "Me Too" you come to give us a lecture on the quality of democracy. Mr. Mitsotakis, people know who you are. Maybe she voted for you, but don't make the mistake of thinking that she voted for you. The people, over the last ten years of the debt-government, have always punished those who bring it a memorandum - Mr. Tsipras brought them two, one in 2015 and one in 2018 - by voting on the opposition. However, the people do not forget that some have forgotten to pay the SIEMENS account for a call centre. It does not forget the national humiliation, free the "Christophiles" and permanently unavoidable. It does not sweat the ear of the world with the examinations of one and the other. Are you talking about democracy quality? You dare put these words in your mouth, when your paradox drags democracy into the "dog of interlocutory", which if I'm not mistaken is a right word your father invented. A democracy that you sacrificed on the altar of the five "pimps", to refer to another correct expression of Kostas Karamanlis. You are talking about a democracy whose institutional tools, its keys, since 2010 you have delivered to foreign lenders. You are talking about New Democracy when with a node by Mrs Merkel - if you remember - then in 2011 you ran to download from your websites everything you had left of the Zappeion. You are also talking about SYRIZA, where Mr. Tsipras took our brave people off the streets to say the great "OH" in the troika, betting that the people will be shaded. And when the people were not shattered, terrified by Mr. Tsipras with you, and with the Movement of Change, which is missing today, you overthrow the people. You all together have been confirming something an anarchist said for years that if democracy could change something, it would have been abolished. You have shown the german lie to propaganda's nuclear weapon in a ghetto. The lie, for example, that the 2015 negotiations cost dozens - after you did hundreds - of billions of euros. Geebbels: You take a lie and you swell it to make it more trustworthy. It was absolutely nothing to deal with what your memorials cost, and before that the hundreds of billions of euros you charged to the backs of the Greek people on behalf of the oligarchs. The lie that I closed the banks when you and Mr Stournara, along with Mrs Bakoyannis, with Mr. Adonis Georgiadis, created the bank-run, which was a procurer to close, as Mr. Draghi admitted, the banks. Why? In order to avoid nationally necessary debt restructuring at present. For years now, the lie has been reproduced that in that Eurogroup poor Moscovisi, foolish Dieselbloom, "not all" Siomple, allegedly came to those Eurogroup ideas and suggestions and someone went there unprepared and aggressive. And when I tabled the recorded minutes, as I owed it, to raise the level of the public dialogue - to blame me for what I said and not for what I did not say - Mr Tassoulus terror tried to protect Mr Dieselblum, Mr Draghi, Mrs Lagard. How? Returning the flash drive. And when we have not been tempted to - and I repeat - to raise the level of the public debate between ourselves, we have made the Euroleaks public, the videotexts of the Eurogroup, similar to you. Jerk of you! You could, as you had a splendid splendid field, hear dozens of meetings and blame. But you didn't. And I come now in April last year, after the outbreak of the pandemic, when it shattered you on 8 April in this Chamber, the forecast I had made that the recession would be at least 10%. That night you set up Aegina's service. You know, Mr Mitsotakis, that I just got a new fine from Mr Chrysochoidis, from the Athens Security, for pointless - he says - moving. You're going to do it today? Will you send me another one? Because I came from Aegina. If possible, talk about quality of democracy and quality of public dialogue after these constructions. I should like to mention on 17 November, when Mr Chrysochoidis forced hundreds of young police officers to violate their duty by prohibiting seven Members of Mera25 who, with all the precautions, wanted to make a symbolic protest, while you and the President of the Republic were in the courtyard of the Polytechnic. And are you talking about quality of democracy? You then proceed to two Merra25 Members for things they said from this Step of the House, for truths they said, and you drag them into court. And you dare talk about quality of democracy? Has Mr Chrysochide dared to prejudge the Vice-President of Parliament, Sofia Sakorafa, and dared to speak of the quality of democracy? Stop pretending you don't know it. The Republic was destroyed in that country in 2010. If you do not believe me, look at your favorite magazine - it must be one of your favorite magazines - "ECONOMIST", look at "DEMOCRACY INDEX", see the cursor of the "ECONOMIST" index for the quality of democracy in Greece. Mr Mitsotakis, I referred earlier to Sofia Bekaterou, in which we, and you, also owe the breaking of the silence dam. But do you realize, really, where does this dam keep from? Do you realize the role of leaving you over time in building and maintaining it? Yes, it is true that there have been great bourgeois women, such as the excellent Calliroi Parren with the "Jews' Newspaper", who since the nineteenth century have struggled to throw this wall, the dam of silence. However, the first ones to cast it on the substance were the rebels of the ESM-ELAS, who fought, not only against the nazis, but also fought against their earlier lifestyles under the boot of the ferocious patriarchy. The Civil War Right did everything in its power to return them to the "purpose" of patriarchy, to preserve the right of men to violence against women, Mrs Bakoyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u32	Yes, Mr. Varoufakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u33	With great help from representatives, especially women, of your resignation. Because you know very well that many times women's worst enemies are women themselves, as in South Africa the policemen of the apartheid regime were black. A parentheses here to be clear. And I think at least we can agree on that. Rape has nothing to do with sex. It's an act of violence and an attempt to expand patriarchal power to the victim. It is not about shared consent to sexual preferences for adults, whether they are heterosexual or homosexual. I'm closing the parentheses. I would remind you of what had happened in this Chamber in 1983. Let me remind you that the New Democracy had denounced and left when it was voted in this Chamber at the time from PASOK - that PASOK which had nothing to do with today's - the most progressive family law in the country. You denounced and left, your resignation. And as if that were not enough, when you became government in 1989, the elder's Mitsotakis government gave way to the deadless dreams of contractors, pimps, vs. Kostas Karamanlis, to monopolize the media. Ladies and gentlemen, the media are not just mirrors of society. By giving them to the few-farmers, you then took the first step, in 1989, to bury culture. Because the auction process, especially on television, is not that you produce a show and sell it to the viewers. It's not like potatoes and tomatoes. What private TV does is entangles public attention with images of creepy kits and then sells it to advertisers. This is how the neoliberal tyranny of spectacle and propaganda is built. Somehow this was built here, with fronts from outside, the great Rupert Murdoch, who enriched on the basis of the principle that no one has ever lost money devalued the public's intelligence, and Silvio Berlusconi, who has enriched on the basis of another principle, that nothing entangles public attention more than the image of the woman - pot - tool. The life style that starts with the private TV here of the oligarchs, on the basis of the auction, brought the full commercialization of bodies and souls, with an aesthetic Hu Hefner, from "NITRO" to Mastorakis to the ANT1. So they returned the pageant, filled the mattresses with women - potter - objects, which each padre padrone saw and sees as a pact. And so the patriarchal authority, always boasted between the image of the woman - saint and the image of the woman - prostitute, was mutated. This full and violent trade of women opened the way for the violent trade of all, and of children and young men, gay and straight. Your life style, at the same time, erased the information light. Instead of research journalism, reality. Instead of journalism, gossip. Instead of dialogue, windows and keyholes. And you, SYRIZA, did you do something different? Did you make a radical change in the idea of hiring individuals? Oh, no. You just bet on some of the ol'archs who would create a duopoly, a duopoly, some of them to support you, some of the others. Ultimately, you were sold by your few-gaugeers. Why would they hide it anyway? What they owed since 1989 was due to Mitsotakis the elder. Mr President, I will take some time from my dentistry. I do not want to delay the Prime Minister who has to go to the summit.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u34	As long as you can, you shorten, because time is short.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u35	But I've just explained that I'm going to use time from my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u36	It is not a matter of time-consuming time, but a matter of the Prime Minister's obligation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Along with the Memorandum parties, the parties of oblivious bankruptcy, economic, political and cultural, you all went bankrupt culture together by bringing society to the limit up the impoverishment of both society and democracy. And here comes your pandemic, and it establishes with the Pecha list and officially the involvement of the oligarchal media and oligarchal government. Somewhere there, "via mass miscarriage" and Memorandum governments ensured that what Marx once said about the elections is true. "It is something that happens..." Marx said, "...every three, four years, when the people decide which representative of the oligarchy will distort his will within Parliament." Ladies and gentlemen, let us be honest. We're here today because a young woman opened her mouth. She spoke and her words broke one "apostasy" after the other, putting the Prime Minister in a difficult position, without wanting to blame. This "apostasy" is not a skin, it is not rooted with an electronic platform or with a list of the Ministry of Justice, Mr Mitsotakis or ELAS. The roots of the "apost" go deep. They start from the pre-capitalist patriarchy, they are strengthened by capitalist production relationships and they become turbos now, when they come into contact with markets that engender the international oligarchy, with the troika's capitalists that abolish domination, which abolish democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are seeing today in this sitting is the other side of bankruptcy. Along with the financial collapse of 2010, the rule of law was dismantled in this country, as was normal. A flagrant moment in the spring of 2012, when the state was abundant with the Golden Dawn, the state was transformed into a "violent" state on the part of householders, buyers of debris. It was then that Mr Chrysochoidis from the same position as you have given him today has commanded physical and psychological rape, for the public permeability of positive women. Do you care about democracy and vulnerable women, ladies and gentlemen? See already today in YouTube the documentary of Life Mavroudi: The time of permeation and consider Mr. Mitsotakis' courage to deliver lessons of ethos, democracy and sensitivity to the victims of violence, when he has now chosen Mr. Chrysochoidis to give him not only public security, family asylum - remember the Indar family - but also the universities and refugees, and I don't know what else. It's no longer a question of democracy. It is a matter of human rights in this country. For us, for Mera25, the struggle for oligarchy, the struggle to break the oligarchy, to liberate from the debt goes hand in hand with a new feminism. We believe that without liberalisation from the classics, the memorials and tyranny of the oligopolistic market, women's liberation does not exist. Without a patriarchy, classism, authoritarianism and rape of souls and bodies will perpetuate. As long as women are subjugated, the more patriarchal 'private' will be strengthened. And the more private, the more women will suffer brutally. To say raw, market dependence enslaves women, even when some women acquire wealth and power in the market. Although the market is grammar females, market dependence is the peak of the spear of modern patriarchy. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Mr. Mitsotakis, we are sad that you have not managed to find more than two women for your Ministerial Council. Of the twenty Ministers, twenty-five if you put the Deputys on, only two are women. We are more saddened that your patriarchal government has chosen two women to key ministries in order to strengthen the aggressive patriarchy, two ladies whom you have charged with with changes that will remain in black-coloured history. One is the Minister of Education who is preparing to hand over the universities to Mr. Chrysochoidis, who just yesterday became an accomplice to this crime at the Aristotle University of Athens. The President of the Department of Political Science described to us the way in which students, in all right students, who were the only ones to protest worldly and calmly against the Minister's bill, were violently prosecuted and arrested by Mr Chrysochide. The other is the Minister for Culture, a Minister for Culture. I do not question either her scientific adequacy or her morality. I hear what he says. From what she says and what she has said in this Chamber and in her interviews she is committed to confusing cultural values, hypocrisy with hypocritical art, while leaving unarmed not only in the economic pandemic and the hunger of artists, the people of cultural production a whole year, but also the victims of the victims who the state has chosen to "suckle" with their victims. But we, Mr Mitsotakis, will not do you a favor to ask Mrs Kerameos or Mrs Mendoni for her resignation. This is not a personal matter. We call for the resignation of those who succeed in the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education. We are not asking for Mr Chrysochide to be expelled, because anyway I doubt whether you can get him out. He's your Peter Garuffala. If we decide to ask for his expulsion, we'll be in the American Embassy. We know where we're going. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Listen to them, listen to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u38	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u39	Yes, Mr. Mitsotakis, Mera25 does not target any of your people. We regard you as co-responsible. The party that proclaimed with Mitsotakis the elder in the mosque of the media, the party that along with SYRIZA and KINAL, hand over the keys of the democratic state to the troika, you, the current government, turn every day new and new policemen, thus raping their souls, against students, doctors, workers. You hand over education and cultural production to unblemished colleges, to ministers - performers, of course, to Mr Chrysochide's MATs. Since your prolongation and the oligarchy that expresses has raped the truth, dignity and aesthetics of this country, now you have come here to tell us about democracy, quality of dialogue, spirit and morality. I remind you of the unforgettable Vasilis Aylonite at the "Vehicle of Athens"! That's your motto! When you speak here of public dialogue and of the quality of democracy, you remind us of the Aylonite. We're telling you and we're warning you. I shall close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. The message of Mera25 today, from this Step, to every citizen of the country is clear: what his police officers Mr Chrysochide did in 2012 in the souls and bodies of positive women, what they did, Mr Mitsotakis, the chosen by our state - the state of violent patriarchy - to athletes, young men, actresses and chauffeurs is as if they did to us, as if they did to our children. Yes, I apologise for once talking about your political culture! Mea culpa! It is now clear that quality dialogue with you is impossible. As is impossible for the quality dialogue with Mrs Kerameos for universities, with Mrs Mendoni for culture. It is in vain and any discussion with you about democracy and quality of dialogue. This dialogue is taking place with civil society. We're already doing it and we're going to keep doing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u40	In closing the prototypes, we proceed to the seconds, calling on the Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, at Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u41	I distinguished, Mr. Tsipras, enough smiles under your mask when Mr. Varoufakis was speaking. You had him a Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u42	They don't look under the mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u43	You had him as Minister for six months! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Honestly, Mr Varoufakis, I don't know when you're worse when you're talking in or out of text. That I imagine will be judged by the people who are listening to us. I cannot, of course, remember that very nice interview you had given to the "Paris Match" with a view to the Acropolis, because I imagine that it does not fall to the logic of life style that you call upon. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I have to tell you that by listening carefully to the speeches of all the political leaders, I believe that the debate has not been placed in its proper context. At least three political leaders came to Parliament today to make a speech entirely general, referring to all the current political developments, from the pandemic and the coronary, from what is happening in universities to other issues of topicality, without devoting the time and importance to the essence of the issue that we have come to discuss today. I shall therefore return to the substance of the matter and repeat the question which has not been answered by any political leader, as I put it in my introductory position. Why did Me Too start in Greece now and not some years ago? Why did Sofia Bekaterou - which we all thank for - not speak at a random event? I will repeat once again that he has spoken at an event organized by the Government, by the General Secretariat of Sports on exactly the matter of how people who have suffered such traumatic experiences can break their silence. So these people who spoke and who speak today apparently feel comfortable to do so. I am not going to pay tribute, Mr Tsipras, to this, to the fact that it has not been done on your day or on our own. It may also be a natural process of mature society, which may be following developments abroad after a number of years. But these people talked. They felt the possibility and the security to tell their story. And the reason why they did not tell their story in the past was precisely because they knew - and they told us - that they could not hear, that they would not have political support, because if they resorted to justice they suspected they would not find their point because they felt weak in the power of some mighty. And that changes to this government, and that is why we are very proud! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Everyone here in this Chamber is sending the message to these fellow citizens that they can speak safely. I think we all understand how difficult it is for any of our fellow citizens to have such a serious wound even after many years, even in a time when the cases are legally unregulated and to face this courage - the enormous that they need - their perpetrator and stop feeling the guilt of a covert cover that has inextricably stigmatized their mental world. That's what we're talking about today. And these are the conditions that we want to form in the public debate and that is why the government has tabled a number of proposals. But I didn't hear you say anything about these proposals. Absolutely nothing! Mrs Gennimatas has smacked a debate on positive acceptance, and otherwise she has only dealt with an overall degradation of governmental work. So I ask you: we have a framework of nine proposals. Can we do better? I expect your own substantial contribution to this public debate. That is the essence of the debate today. And in any case, as much as you're trying here to talk about cover theories, I'm going to tell you that exactly backwards is happening. There's a revelation now. There's no cover. What cover do you insist on talking about when you and the various things are mentioned - why did I have the opportunity to follow public debate during the debate - your party believes? You say there is a guilty secret that connects me with Mrs Mendoni, which does not allow me for any reason - which you only know - to eradicate. What's that guilty secret? Aren't you telling us? Explain us to dentistry. This is a definition of mud, Mr Tsipras, to leave a vague implied, a fog, a blur. Something's going on, something I suspect, something I think, something I heard, but I'm not saying what it is. So I ask you directly: What is the guilty secret, which connects me with Ms. Mendoni and does not allow me to eradicate her? You have the ability to answer my question. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] What's that? Is Mrs. Mendoni keeping me from somewhere? And if he keeps me from somewhere, where does he keep me from? This is how teratology and conspiracy theories are born online. By such general references. "He was your friend Mr. Lignades, but it's okay that he was your friend, you shouldn't know," only he wasn't my friend, but you said so. It's okay, shoot, something's gonna stay. That is precisely the policy you have followed today, unfortunately, in this Chamber. And you did have the opportunity - perhaps in your dentistry, I wish, but I do not think - to take distinct distances from vulgarity, which was emanated from a part of the public speech that clearly, clearly, had the incitement of your own political space. I spoke with certain names. I referred to specific statements by your officials, at least two of your Members, Mrs Eleftheriadou and Mr Polakis, on their vulgar posts, for the most disgraceful reason. A further statement by Mr Polakis says: "Neither the incompetent trolley is the Lovedakis!" But is that a reason? Do you tolerate that reason? Go out and say, "I condemn it"! "Incandan trolley, Darling"? It is the definition of sexist speech in a debate that concerns such a sensitive issue. Can you finally do it or not? I'm sure there are too many in SYRIZA who right now understand that with your tactics, by not taking distances from these vulgarities, you lead them to the wall. "Offensive to the Left the way SYRIZA is politicizing in the Lingnadis case." It's a statement by Mr. Kontonis, who was your Minister of Justice. You had him a minister, I didn't have him. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So the question is if you can finally get away from such practices. Can you do it? Are you, in the end, committed to a policy from which you can no longer escape? Because that is the only way you have unfortunately learned to deal with. You talked about the keyboards. Well, Mr. Tsipras, because you're also an engineer, I suggest you deposit a patent. The patent will relate to a discovery of your own: Unmanned keyboards! It's the keyboards that write on their own! There's no one who's typing. They're typing themselves! Behind it, no one hides themselves! They're automated! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] There are no unmanned keyboards. There are those who type in the keyboards, surnames, with the vulnerabilities I referred to. You made a point that I think is of value. You referred to a member of the New Democracy delegation - and I will say a brand name - Mr Varlos Lazarides, who used a reference, the word 'kinid', which I consider to be deeply offensive to our homosexuals. I personally asked him to withdraw and he did. I personally asked him to withdraw and he did so because this government honors the LGBTQ community. This government, Mr Velopoulos, did not select executives for State Secretarys, for top economic advisers because they belong to the community. But shouldn't some people be concerned that no one has so far chosen someone who is openly homosexual to take a government position? Why didn't that happen? Because that's how we practically break the walls of silence. So I, Mr Tsipras, asked my colleague - and he did so in his honour - to withdraw and withdraw. Will you today from the Step of the House ask Mr Polakis, present in the Chamber, to do the same? Will you ask? Here we go. We'll wait. You're here. Mr. Paulakis is here. It's a glorious opportunity! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Finally, will you prove in practice that Tsipras and Paulakis are not the same thing? That Tsipras and Paulakis and Vaxevanis are not finally united to be the same in order not to hide behind seriousness and your ability to make good reason? Here we go. Do it! [[Upright Members of the New Democracy applaud vividly and protractedly]] Mr Paulakis did you a favor to come to the Chamber, so the issue can be resolved once and for all. I will say two words before I close, Mr President, again on the issue of the infamous delay in the case of Mr Lignade. Because I like, as you know, always from the Step of the House to speak with real data, February 6, at 13: 42', in fact, the complaint by Nikos S. is published. - Terrifying, punching on the stomach to anyone who read it! - to 2020mag.gr. It's an anonymous complaint. I don't know who Nikos S. I don't know if justice knows him. I don't know if he's filed a lawsuit himself or not. But it is clear that Nikos S. in this complaint photographs Mr. Lignade. Mr Lignade's resignation was accepted by the Minister of Culture five hours later, five hours after an anonymous complaint. You're asking us to go to the D.A. Should we go to the D.A. with what exactly? Do you understand the basic rules of the rule of law that there was no complaint here, there was no lawsuit, there was nothing? There was a very clear hint for a man, who clearly could no longer exercise his duties. The rest, Mr. Tsipras, belong to justice. Did justice move fast? I'm asking. Did justice move fast? Do we feel here that there was any cover-up in court investigation? None at all! The citizens know that today there is an apology. Justice will take all the data into account and decide. And here is where our involvement in this case ends. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I repeat, therefore, that all this argument about Ms Mendoni has almost one obsessed character. I must tell you that he reminded me, as Mr Varoufakis referred to Mrs Merkel, 'go back madam Merkel', 'go away madam Mendoni'. Systemically repeat the same mole. I'm telling you, first. Ms. Mendoni was wrong about the communication handling of the case. Political responsibility for staying in the government is mine, Mr. Tsipras. Don't look any further. You can blame me for that, that Mrs. Mendoni had to leave. And I'll tell you that Mrs. Mendoni should stay. You will, however, go up to this step or from your position or wherever you want and tell us what is the guilty secret that connects us, because if you do not do so then as you can see the presumption that you are investing in mudology will be further and more and more strengthened. I'm hanging up, ladies and gentlemen, from where I started. Greece of 2021 is not the same as Greece of 2011, with Greece of 2016. It is a society that has matured, which is monitoring international developments. It's a society that's mature and ready, I think it's all over again with the dark sides of itself. I would also like today from the Step of the House to encourage everyone and everyone separately if he feels that he has been abused or of powerless violence to speak and denounce this incident. No one in Greece in 2021 is entitled to live in fear and silence! Nobody! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And, at least, let this be the message that will come out of this Chamber when the lights of publicity are turned off and the harshness of political dialogue softened up. We owe it. We owe it to those who have been victims of such incidents. But above all, we must send a message in the future, because this debate, apart from a laxative dimension which has dark sides of the past, also has a substantial deterrent dimension to what can be done in the future. Because everyone, perhaps, who will think in the future of exercising any form of powerful violence against someone, who is weaker - either hierarchically weaker or weaker - should now know that he is taking too much risk and should know that the veil of silence has now been broken, that the mouth has been opened and that if he is conceived to carry out such actions, it is very likely that he will finally be faced with their consequences. And this is the greatest profit for Greek society, the biggest profit for the country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u44	We also thank the Prime Minister - and I will say something pedestrian - for the time being, I repeat. Mr Alexis Tsipras, Head of Officer's Opposition and Chairman of the Radical Left- Progressive Alliance Parliamentary Group of the Radical Left coalition is now called at the Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Neither too little nor much, Mr Mitsotakis, today in your dentistry you told us that you were very proud, because the "Me Too" movement began during your own governance and even started with a smuggling by saying "Mrs. Bekatouros at an event organized by your Government". At an event organized by the Literature and Arts Center, she made her complaint publicly. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And you obviously know that, but you are in such a difficult position that you must go up to this Step and praise yourself instead, even on the second chance you had, to make an elementary self-criticism and to assume an elementary political responsibility. You did not. You told us that for your days, because you are the Greeks, the "Me Too" movement started in Greece, because the government guarantees you the victims, guarantees of support to proceed to public complaints. With the same logic, the movement "Me Too" worldwide, which started in the United States of America in 2017, should be fruited by Mr Trump's government, because it started on Trump. Hey, Trump! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Now, these arguments you come and tell us from the Step of the House are arguments for young children. And of course, you have once again insisted that we have not entered into the substance of the matter. For you the essence of the issues is the Internet. There is no doubt on the Internet that there is a climate that is negative. But there is also a climate that is positive on the Internet, not just the negative. The negative of us all to condemn it together. However, the fact that if there were no internet could not have been a number of critical public complaints to try to cover critical issues, you did not boast it. I'm just doing it myself. A number of very important issues relating to your governance, from the famous 'SKOIL ELIKIKI' to the diplomas that Mr. Vroutsi did not have - and you had to expel him from the Internet - up to the masks - 'airy' that you gave to the children in schools, even your stunts to Parnitha and Ikaria, all of this came out of the Internet, Mr. Mitsotakis! They didn't come out of any large-scale long-range channels. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr. Mitsotakis, when you are in front of the danger of athletics of your own or of your government having a wider publicity, because the internet is littering, even on public television, and you are commanding that Mr. Zoula, whom you have rewarded for the services of the other day, stepping up his wages so that he can take the highest wage of a state minister to get Mr. Zoulas directics stuck in the drafting room on public television, so that they don't play footage from Ikaria or play pictures of Lignade alone. And you had the nerve to tell us that we were taking a photoshop. Mr Mitsotakis, I would like to return to the crucial issue of today's sitting. I will not answer you why you are not going to send Mrs Méndou, you have to answer that. The Greek people from you expect an answer to this crucial issue, they do not expect the Opposition, the Chief of Officerial Anti-Population and the other parties to answer the critical question: "How can it not be misled?" You must answer. I would like to go back to the substance of the matter, which is that, on the sixth day of the month, we had a public complaint. You retrospectively tell us: "But we asked him to resign on the sixth day of the month", despite the fact that Mrs. Mendonis herself had come out on the eightth day of the month at a television station and said that "Mr. Lignades did not tolerate the climate of rumors that created a cord around him, which is why he was driven by his own resignation". Also, on the same day, eight months later, Ms. Mendouis in a radio interview at the radio station "Thema", if I am not mistaken, said that "there are no names for Lignad, so we are not going to go through the process of further investigation of the case", when all over the country the Acoustic Opposition parties and other opposition parties, the whole internet with interventions by politicians and not by the arts were "why don't you go on to an investigation?" You are now telling us that 'we did not go any further, because this complaint was not a petition'. But, on the eightth day of the month, Nikos S.'s lawyer, Mr. Yiannis Vlachos, was the one who went to the district attorney's office and made statements outside the district attorney's office, who asked justice to show the reflexes he had recently displayed in other similar cases, in order to move on his own initiative and in this case, in order to dismantle and find if beyond Nikos S. there were other persons who have been abused. Didn't you hear these statements? On the fifteenth day of the month, Mr. Tarantilis, the Government Representative, made a public statement saying that Mr. Lignade resigned for personal reasons. And only on the nineteenth day of the month - I present all this to the Minutes - when there was now filed a petition for an unregistered offence at that time and only Mrs Mendoni came out publicly to tell us that she was a dangerous man and that you were deceived and convinced of it. He spoke to the first pluralist: 'He convinced us'. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] You're always looking to find out what a suspect is in what we're talking about. We don't talk about riddles, we ask you directly: Who convinced? Who were they to whom Mrs Méndonis referred to as the first pluralist? Furthermore, I would like to ask you for a last time the question, Mr Mitsotakis: Who put this man there? Who? Did he see light and come in? Didn't you have anything to do with the choice? Mrs. Mendoni had nothing to do with it. So he said he didn't. Unless that's the guilty secret. If Ms. Mendoni stays in her position, because if she leaves her post she will come out and say publicly that "I didn't know him", as she gave him a leak, "I learned him three days before I was appointed and some others put me in that position."
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u46	She's done it all by herself!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u47	Sit down now. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It's cool to talk. Critical questions are being asked. The Prime Minister can answer it in his teratology. I now come to a very critical issue which you have tried to mislead, in my opinion, Mr Mitsotakis. Instead of taking any part of your political responsibility, you chose to attack SYRIZA and his executives, ask me once again for resignations and give me personally, SYRIZA and Members the exclusiveity of aggression on the Internet and the statements, while you yourself, your party, your executives have always been out of it. You made a special reference to Mr Lazaridis, and for a week now you have not spoken about maximum misery in a public statement at Mr Chrysochoidis' TV station, which said that SYRIZA burned hundreds of people in Eye, who had made it a flag. And you couldn't find a word about this misery. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] At the same time, you chose to bring you to the government headquarters, instead of the first lady of culture, Mrs. Mendoni, accompany you, Mrs. Meridakis. I don't happen to know her, she seems nice to me. But if you'll excuse me, Mr. Mitsotakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u48	Please, no vacation!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u49	If you'll excuse me, Mr. Mitsotakis, I'm going to ask him to let me know about the work he's doing in unaccompanied minors. I would like to say that I do not have full knowledge and that is why I would ask her to inform me, but if she agrees to talk to 'criminal immorals'. Because it was Mrs. Meridakis who, on December 5th, 2016, told me to delete Polakis for the fifteenth time because you said it was a troll of the internet - he said, "Let's say a slogan that unites them all: SYRIZA - ANEL murderers!". Fascist doesn't make a good rhyme. I'm following the government line. Here, beside you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] September 2016, addressed to the Prime Minister of the country at that time, i.e. to me: "We wanted you to leave with elections Alexis. You rambled to meet Korydallus' panties. Remember it.’ Mrs. Lovedakis, yes! Rejoice, beside you! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Next to you, you have it and you come here to talk to us about the Internet trolls. Are you all right? Apparently, you don't have a picture of what you've just collected around you. And, of course, another important maniac of Ms. Meridakis in April 2017 with her posted on the internet after an interview then as Prime Minister at the TV AD1: "Alexis shame to spit on citizens in the face. You're not a prime minister. You're criminally immoral. You didn't have to be so criminally immoral." [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] Mr Mitsotakis, I am "criminally immoral". And you come here to give us lessons. Should we refer to the known Internet trolls? We're not talking about journalists here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u50	Please, you don't need any relays.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u51	We're not talking about journalists. We're talking about your executives here. I have an envelope. I'll let you read him. You may have fun with him. Adonis Georgiadis: “This is how he ruled the SYRIZA's murdering parastate. Fires!’. Adonis Georgiadis: “Incredible revelation. They went to the UK to rescue Tsipras in Maldives where he made secretively lame holidays." It was a tweet of Georgiadis. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Mr. Romanos, the other "star" next to you, in your office, in your team, in charge of strategic planning, deputy press officer: "We are dealing with a gang. We are dealing with a Venezuelian conspiracy." Mr. Roman. The hashtag of the time was #Tsipras Lexotanil. Not to mention the election hashtag because it is inappropriate for minors. That's who you are, Mr. Mitsotakis! I'll give it to you! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You are the ones, Mr. Mitsotakis, who have the courage to move us and the finger for the quality of political dialogue! That's who you are. You brought "MAKELEIO" into this Chamber, which said: "Father Tsipras's Shadows". That was what the "MAKELIO" and the "SEE" said. And you came and said exactly the same that the Tsipras family did business with the junta and the next day the "MAKELEIO" rewarded you: "Mitsotakis confirmed everything that we have written about the Tsipra family." There you go! [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So you want to talk about this? Do you have the nerve to talk about these? Or for the recent one: 'The villa chili'? I bought it with 1,3 million euros! 'MAKELEIO'. Then Mr. Kourtakis and Mr. Papachristos discovered it and made it a central issue. New Democracy came out every day seven announcements. Is that possible? I've never brought this to the House, but don't cause us. At least don't provoke us. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] On the issue of unaccompanied people, let me say two words in substance, because I think it is an important matter. And I repeat that I do not know if Mrs. Lovedakis is doing a good job or not. Probably do a good job. I want to mention that you lied. I'll tell you why you lied. You referred to 2016 reports. Yes, in 2016 the situation was tragic. You did not mention the image you received in 2019, when Chrysochoid himself came out and said that he has the state at all times and that you received a situation in all the islands under control. We had zero unaccompanied then.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u52	Now he's good!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u53	Please, quiet and no vacation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u54	Okay. If your argument, Mr. Mitsotakis, is that your Minister, your most important Minister, has a bipolar disorder and one says right things and one says wrong, tell us. I say what he has done and I tell you to see what the situation is today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u55	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u56	You came here to like Mrs. Lovedakis' work, which I repeat might be important. I criticized her in relation to her attitude, her style, her morality on the Internet. That was the criticism. However, here I have seven reports from the dozens currently circulating in the foreign press that are referring to all the sufferings that are going through refugees and immigrants and which also include charges, unfortunately - and this is something we need to bend on - for rape and sexual harassment. I do not want to claim that this is now happening. To be clear. But don't tell us that you have created the Promised Land. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I will submit to the Proceedings and the only valid data in Greece issued every 15 days by the National Centre for Social Solidarity, which say that the estimated set of unaccompanied persons in June 2019, when we handed over, was three thousand eighty-eighty eighty-eighty-eighty applicants and on 15 January 2021, are three thousand nine hundred sixty-eight, that is to say, increased by a hundred people, while the flows decreased by 79%. That's a matter that we need to...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u57	I'd like to see that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u58	Yeah, I'll testify. Alas. It's evidence. At least not to disagree on the evidence. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] In any case, it is not a question of opposing it. The question is to see what we can do as an organised state and was not in a positive direction the first legislative intervention you have made, to separate the applicants from over fifteen years of age and under fifteen, that is to say they need special assistance and protection only those who are under fifteen and those who are over fifteen, in the sixteen, in the seventeen, in the seventeen, to be like everyone else, going back to their countries of origin. Now, I know that time is limited, and I'm really going to try and finish it within three minutes. I respect the fact that you have a very important obligation, perhaps the most important one, to attend the summit. I would like to close by saying a few words on the issue of codes, on the issue of the code of conduct and of criminal codes, but also on the crucial issue of democracy, which I believe we have not reproached today, with today's debate. In other words, we have not finished with the need for further discussion on the issue of democracy. You announced a code of conduct and changes to the Criminal Code to deal with incidents of harassment at workplaces and you did well. But no code, no legislative initiative has any value if it does not start with political responsibility. Let us first agree, the heads of the parties, how we need to function when there are such incidents and then put the codes together and agree on the codes and how they are to be implemented. I want to make a comment here. Stop this populist specula, the specula that every so little and little of your members in the media learn about the responsibility of the criminal codes, this criminal populism, and now did so, the day before yesterday, on the radio of "Real FM" Mr. Adonis Georgiadis, on Mr. Hadinikolaou's radio. He lied again that the new Criminal Code is the one who has transformed paedophile and aggression and rape of minors - I do not remember exactly what he claimed, nonetheless some of them - from a felony to a flood. That's not true and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u59	Nobody said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Georgiadis said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u61	He didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u62	I'll answer you. Let me finish. As in all penalties, the new Criminal Code is indeed the upper sentence of fifteen years and it was twenty. But the appreciable penalty, the one that goes out, is two fifths and not one third of the sentence. And that was the essence, the core of this reform, a reform involving surnamed lawyers from all over the spectrum, worthwhile people without anyone to say that the criterion was the criterion of feasibility. So, we have formerly had homicidal sentences that weren't being exposed, and now we have homicidal penalties according to the smaller ones, but the total time that the felon will stay in prison will be longer than he was up to now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u63	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u64	It's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u65	Please, be quiet, come on. You don't have the floor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u66	The new Criminal Code predicts and punishes...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u67	What about rape?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u68	I'll tell you about the rape.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u69	You remember the world was broken.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u70	Please, no dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u71	Don't tick me to tell you that the only case where it was exploited favourably was in the case of Nikos Georgiadis. Don't make me say that. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And there was a lifting of the criminal prosecution where New Democracy MPs were going to defend someone who was sentenced for twenty-eight months because he has been offended to minors. Don't make me say that. I don't want to open this debate. I don't want to open this debate! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But sit down and listen. Sexual exploitation is now being punished in all workplaces and not just in the public sector, such as the old Criminal Code. The new Criminal Code provides for and punishes the case that the victim is frozen by his fear that he did not exist in the previous one. And many behaviors against minors who were not even crimes are now punished, now by the new definition of rape they are punished as a felony. And there is no paedophilia that has become a flood by SYRIZA, as the ministers of the New Democracy falsely emit. And the seduction of more than fourteen was a flood with the old Criminal Code. But now the sentence is being executed while with the previous one it was simply purchased by anyone who had money to buy it. I'm closing up very soon on the issues of democracy. We are not talking about democracy in today's debate. They're not exhausted! There is a huge issue, Mr President. I had a private meeting and discussion with you in your office on these matters. We had a civilised conversation. However, the problem remains. And it is a problem, on the occasion of the pandemic, that the way of voting has changed in Parliament. It is a fundamental problem for Members to give their vote to the secretaries of the parliamentary groups. It is essential that the Prime Minister does not respond - usually not always - to the questions of political leaders, but to turn them into announcements from Parliament, as he decided to do today. It is also a problem for the last two and a half months that there has been no date for a debate in Parliament on the democracy requested by SYRIZA. It is a problem all that we see with the functioning of the media, the list of Petsa, where it decides the "final" state of the Great Maximos which media will survive and which is not, with thick state advertising in lame times. It is a problem that we see in the ETF, censorship, lack of pluralism and the upgrading of the salaries of those there acting as censors. Furthermore, it is a problem that the law you submitted the day before yesterday for private television stations, which gives them their obligation to pay the price for television licences. Let them be strengthened in another way, because these are companies that in the pandemic are affected. No, however, destroying what was introduced after twenty years of lawlessness in the broadcasting landscape, the obligation to pay for the use of public frequency. And, of course, it is a problem that journalists are being fired from large media because they write reports that they do not like the government. These are all problems, and at some point we need to discuss all this. I should like to close, Mr President, on the forefront of artists, youths, workers and the weak ones, by the way in which the government manages the economic crisis brought about by the pandemic. This whole front won't be able to lead it to silence, neutralize it, or deceive it. You'll find it toward you soon. And the more you hold Ms. Mendoni, the more that demand will grow and this movement. You'll find it in front of you soon, you don't want to. You know what? If I wanted to speak exclusively with minors today, I would say hold Mrs Mendoni. Hold it. Put her where she is and don't shake Mrs. Mendoni. Hold it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Do you want me to submit to the minutes the statements made by officials of the New Democracy asking for Mrs Mendoni to leave? Mrs Vozeberg has asked for it. Even Mr. Bogdanos asked for it. Hold it. Even the supervising bodies - Thessaloniki Festival - came out and rose. What is happening to Mrs Mendoni in the field of culture is a small revolution. Hold it! Hold it! But you should know that you will find this front in front of you, which is the front of society. The political forces of the modern progressive front, from the left to social democracy, the progressive centre, even enlightened right-wing people, will be toward you. We take responsibility for this movement to hear it, to listen to it - not to guide it - and to give a solution of power to the deadlocks that you have created when the crew of time arrives.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u72	Mrs. Gennamas, the Prime Minister has asked for the floor for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u73	It's tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u74	You know, Mrs Gennamas, that there is a problem of time, which has been explained from the very beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u75	Is that the quality of public dialogue? Good for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u76	I've never done it before. I guess I'll have your understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u77	Systemically you do. It's your choice!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u78	The Prime Minister will stay as long as he can. It's just...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u79	Wait a minute. Let's sort this out calmly. Can we commit, Mr President, that the speakers will have completed their speech by 15.15? If you can promise that can be done, I have no problem listening to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u80	Normally, if time is respected - Mrs Gennamas keeps the time - from everyone, it can be done, but do not deprive the Prime Minister of his right, in view of the serious obligation it has.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u81	Let's all show responsibility!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u82	So let's go with the twelfths unregulated. The Prime Minister spoke less than his time so far. And please, no vacation! Here, Mrs. Gennamas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u83	What we are watching today can only be termed by two words: disappointment and shame. We came here to discuss - we are supposed to - the quality of public dialogue and we are watching a delicacy and a ping - yellow pong, disgusting and black. Rejoice in this debate! Spread winds and reap storms! And it is shameful, before all, that people who suffer, who fight, follow us victims, are watched by their families. So far from what concerns them and live! You're here to stay in your seats, pull your "pistols" and get away from here to order the other "pistols" to continue dirty work. This is the message you've been conveying with your speeches all day we've been watching you. We refuse to watch this story, that categorical, really. Your effort, Prime Minister, in the meantime, to hat this movement, "Me Too" the Greek, now born, is hideous. And do you know when these people will be vindicated and when this movement will be vindicated? When we, who are in this Chamber, make decisions and lay down rules that do not allow retaliation to go against them because they dared to open their mouths and break the silence. Because that is already the case and I have not heard any of you comment on it. They have already started in the public debate to be tried in reality and condemned by those who dared to open their mouths and speak. Who's gonna protect them? You need to take the initiative. And according to your favorite tactics, you came here to deceive us, "something has been singing by Mrs. Gennamas." This is not sexist at all, in your opinion. I didn't sing anything. I have said very specific proposals, which I did not say now, like you - and I will come back to that - we will see them from last year. So you have a responsibility to bring us concrete proposals. We have all the good intention to vote, but first we need to see what you bring, which you did not bring, when Mrs Bekatourou opened her mouth, but now that you've been with your back on the wall for the Lignade case. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Everything is finally being used here and by your Government, even your elementary obligation to protect this movement and the victims. It comes at a time when it suits you and not when you had to react to show reflexes. And on this issue, retarded! I have had a lot to say about the quality of dialogue and democracy, but I find it absolutely unnecessary in this climate to refer to such proposals, they do not match, they are endless things in here. I just want to tell you that democracy and the quality of dialogue are based on principles. The first principle is transparency. You have circumvented it, in the name of allegedly extraordinary needs no citizen knows what the decisions are made. The second principle is accountability. No member of your Government has taken any responsibility for anything! You haven't made any mistakes, you're infallible in everything, that's what you came to tell us once again. And the third principle is consultation. None of your ministers are consulting anyone. They decide behind closed doors and come here, with a lot of arrogance and authoritarianism, to impose the alleged reforms that are demolitions, deregulations of rights. I'm not going to expand and I'm not taking you any more time. I will only tell you that our struggle - and that is why we demand a leading role in political developments - for a new change that means breathing, dignity in this country... [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] ...real breath and dignity in political dialogue, after so many years we have lived, on your own responsibility, this categorical charge, is no longer just our claim, but the request of Greek society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u84	And we thank Mrs. Gennamas. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece has the floor for his own dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Mitsotakis, Mr. Tsipras and Mrs. Genomemas, you cannot be portrayed as parties as innocent pigeons. All of you in government, a little more and more, have a heavy responsibility, unreasonable, for the crime you are condemning in words, and one is loading on the other's back, with a lot of hypocrisy. You have made it politically easier for barbarism, as with your policy you have smacked and smacked the economic dignity of our youth, our people, wages, rights, basic social control, trade unionism, which is a counterweight to all kinds of pressures of the mighty. You are the one who opens the way for every reason - to say it with your own dialect - abuse of the power of the powerful in money and positions. Who do you think you're mocking by changing the consequences of the capitalist model you're taking in in the past? Boss by corruption, economically based, all this rotten world of yours. Don't you hear international news? Don't you know the growing rot of the capitalist world of supposedly healthy investors, our evilly good protectors who worship? You yourself, with the policy you are promoting and the interests that your policy ultimately serves, are corrupting economic and social life in the country. You're pretending that you're spending the past a lot of time, like things today, at the moment we're talking about, that's better. It is worse today, much worse for young people and young people who are struggling to find an elementary decent job, without bending, without pilgrimizing, without kissing pissed aprons, with little rights, temporary work, usually vulnerable to all kinds of pressures. And it's worse because you make the class-powered even stronger and the class-weaker weaker. It's the youth you're throwing it up and doing that you don't listen to her agony for a life of dignity, with rights. You do how he sings, that the problem is only Lignade and each Lignade, while he throws chairs and while poverty breaks down. You can't pretend to be responsible for the system that, by 'blank and variant', all of you are unequivocally supporting each other. Taha didn't even read what she wrote with cynicism, days ago, your favourite American Blueberg agency, that the rich have become richer than ever during the pandemic and income inequality has already reached its highest point for at least half a century. You have provoked today's debate, Mr Mitsotakis, as you said, on issues of topicality and the quality of public speech. It is logical that the misery that sees the light of publicity in the field of culture should be monopolized. But news is also the pandemic, which has been left to her fate. The increase in cases and, by extension, in hospitals has led to a heart attack by public hospitals. The fact that we in Attica have a blast of cases, despite the lockdowns, proves that the real and serious dispersion is taking place elsewhere. It is done in workplaces, in means of transport, in private health and welfare structures, that is to say, that after a year of pandemic you have taken no substantial measures. And while hospitals tell you 'take measures now before the infarction leads to the collapse of the public health system', you are raining! What are you waiting for, in other words, for mass recruitment now, to proceed with the private sector? You take us from Lockdown to Lockdown, but you know very well that no lockdown can replace the hospital armour, strengthening primary care, which is necessary, among other things, to get through the vaccination program. You're opening the schools. You have closed the universities, without considering the huge consequences of education, but especially in the psychology of young children, who are now months away from the natural space for their education, which are school rooms, student amphitheatres and not their rooms. There are also major problems facing thousands of unemployed, thousands of workers on parole, others working in very difficult conditions. The current situation is also the problems that have led to the limits of the survival of small and medium-sized businessmen in the field of commerce, focusing and elsewhere. Today I had a scheduled meeting - teleconferencing - with representatives of many trade associations in the western sector of Athens, from which I am elected, to discuss the serious problems facing this whole world. It has been postponed, we have postponed, in order to find ourselves in today's debate that is emerging all the rotting of this system, and we have had to discuss their problems. The time is also the intensity of repression and authoritarianism, in which you have given your change. The students saw it at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. We have seen it, too, and all of Greece. That's what you meant in this House when you said that the police aren't coming in, but democracy? It has been revealed that the real objective of the Kerameos - Chrysochide law was not the - allegedly - crime in universities, but those who fight, react, resist your policy. Schools only open for MATs. The government keeps schools for study, research, everything necessary for tomorrow's generation of scientists. You're doing a demonstration of power of state authoritarianism. You do the same with the case of the hunger strike and with the question of arbitrary treatment against a prisoner. Our opinion on Koufantina and all of them and on their actions and how they have been exploited to make the people, their movement, their struggles, revolutionary ideology and act and the entire Greek people have known it for many years. In this case, however, we are not talking about it. You choose consciously to intensify authoritarianism and make a demonstration of power, arrogantness. You choose to do it there, which you think is easier might be accepted in popular consciences. And finally, you politicize and quantify the whole thing. But the repressive orgy is all about and is ultimately aimed at the people themselves, the youth themselves. The misery of the system you serve is diffuse both in the criminal acts of the sexual abuse of minors, as well as in adult women and men, as well as in all areas of our social life. Unfortunately, you are nothing but representatives here in a rotten system of exploitation, violence, terrorism, insecurity of all kinds. Hello.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u86	Mr Velopoulos, President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, has the floor for his twelfth.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll be in the twelfth, too, because the Prime Minister has to leave, as you said. But with all due respect to all of you, when the sun of culture is low on the horizon, then the dwarfs make great shadows, ladies and gentlemen. And I say this because with what I have heard today I have sincerely been hurt. I was expecting a different look from everyone. However, all these fireworks to capture our voters in part, to applaud us blind party voters at some point have to stop. The Greek Parliament cannot deal with the Koufontins today. We cannot deal with small and trivial issues, which may be important to some politicians - I understand - when the TSME has violated the national sovereignty of the country. And instead of all being united here in the face of this, we are dealing with the little ones we do on purpose and do not deal with the big things we do on purpose again. It's a strange coincidence, though. You disagree with the little ones, especially SYRIZA and New Democracy, but in the big ones your views are the same. Why did we have to talk about this today and not Turkey? You tell me. Tell me the seriousness, I understand that. This is a matter of judiciary, justice, it is a matter of other principles and not of Parliament. If you want, make a joint party committee, let's talk about it there. But you're all talking about sexual violence. Nobody dares to talk about pediatricism. It's different things. Is it possible for political leaders to come today and look for - as the thugs of the political system - statements made ten years ago to expose each other? Looking for the statements of the dear lady Minister or responsible, in any case, to say what she said ten years ago? Looking for everyone and reproducing misery here in Parliament - misery I repeat - and I say it with pain of soul. It's disgusting what I heard in here. Two-three people have said them, and now we're all going to bathe them together, because that's what the political leaders are doing today. What they've done on both sides means that we're all the same. We all find each other with market expressions, with slander. Well, we're not all of them. We must all say this together, especially at a time when we must be united, right now that we are talking. I feel sad, real and rage at the same time, for the help that not many of you who come from the Greek people, who chant, who cries what he is hungry, wants something, to listen to him. Unfortunately, we can't hear him. Of course, the Prime Minister is missing, but today I became wiser. I have enriched my dictionary in a different sense of terms. I didn't know the perfect ones were the different. Because the Prime Minister told us it would be the government of the best. Today he told us that he approves diversity. I don't get it. I became wiser though. I welcome efficiency in my own business. I don't care if the other one's different. I don't even care. It's his choice, his right. Let's do whatever he wants. Efficacy needs Greece to be able to rise higher, not differentiity. It is a reality, unfortunately, and, unfortunately, the Prime Minister did not understand what I told him. I expect him to tell me that 'My ministers are effective'. That's what I expected him to say. However, because they are not effective and it seems and is demonstrated by the huge mistakes they have made so far, it speaks of diversity and of the LGBTKI for whom it says "I love, which I like, which I do, which I promote." It's none of my business who you promote. I don't even care. Promote anyone you want. Efficiently, I want you to promote. Of course, my questions have not been answered at all. Will you do something about the ER, Mr. Gerapititi? Where is your efficiency and the ultimate state? Two members need it. When are we going to meet, finally? When do we decide to put two members together? SKAI - good for him, because I always say good - yesterday he had seven minutes' report on the unreliability of the National Broadcasting Council. What we've been talking about for a year and a half. Next week! Finally! Don't take the Great Week. Next week. Because it's been a long ride for the New Democracy for a year and a half. Also, he didn't answer me about the software. What will you do with the software, the supercoron, to watch the Vibers and the WhatsApps of mobile phones? I don't understand, Mr. Gerapitris. How much did this machine cost? Are you going to tell us? Look, gentlemen, be careful what you say on your phones. They've got a special machine. Viber's not breaking easily. But now, whatever you say and what you're sending, I don't know what you're sending, he'll have a gentleman up there in the police, up in the NSA, who will record them. This is not where the government speaks. He doesn't say anything. The Prime Minister himself asked us to denounce, he says, people should go out and talk. Listen, ladies and gentlemen. Tell me who's a serious man, who's raped or a child who's been in childbirth will denounce someone when he knows the sentence is ten years, which means he'll be out in three years. You tell me. Where did the Prime Minister see these? Will someone come out and report him and be smashed? Is that how he thinks he's gonna solve the problem? This is for the show, fireworks. You want to solve the problem? There's a solution. Chemical castration. We did. It shall apply in other countries voluntarily. Life means life. He won't see the sun again. It's over! To know that monster when he touches a five-year-old, six-year-old kid, that he will never come out of prison again. That, yes, it's a deterrent. Others are words of the air. If you think you're solving the problem, you can't solve it. You're transferring it somewhere else later. It's not like that. Why does the Prime Minister not announce a stricter legal framework for all of us to support it? I don't suppose there's anyone in here who doesn't want us to call him a felony for real and life sentence. Let me say: why other countries have it and we cannot have it? Let's go to the rest. Unfortunately, I had a shock today. I was following the two political leaders - particularly Mr Tsipras, unfortunately, I would say - to be Sherlock Holmes. And the other, the Prime Minister, answer: "Tell us what is our guilty secret." First of all, let me answer that secrets are secrets. The rest of us can't know what connects him to Mrs. Mendoni. And Mr. Tsipras made Sherlock Holmes as to whether Ms. Mendoni had anything to do with the Prime Minister if he was a friend of Marcoulakis - what's his name? - or the other 'little'. Are we concerned about this? Do they employ the Greek people? They're busy. Paediatric rape, yes. Exercise of violence on large and small, yes. They took pictures of the Prime Minister that he's a friend of his. Are we all right? How many photos haven't you been taken? Mrs. Bakoyannis, I'm taking pictures. One says "let's take a picture". Aren't we going out, Mrs. Bakoyannis? You do not say 'no, I do not go out.' You're not rude. Do you know if the other one after five years is going to kill five or six people? What are these things? What are we talking about in here? You tell me. At the same time Turkey is doing the worst it could do. And I'll tell you something and I mean it. The problem isn't Lignade. We're wrong in here again. The problem is the Lignade culture if what is being reported is correct. The mentality must be cured, the cause. The result is Lignade, if I repeat, is the case with what they report to him. So we don't get tried in here. Because I've heard enough here. So who was taking the unaccompanied things to Mr. Lignade? Tell me, you of the New Democracy. The NGOs. You did a check. Minister Mitarakis, Mr Gerapitris, came here and told us 'we are checking on NGOs'. "We control them," she yelled here. Results? Did you find something? That's what I ask. I want answers. I'm never going to criticize you. I won't conspire. I want an instrument to tell me what the results are. Will you really do a serious check on NGOs? You tell me. I'm asking you. Because we cannot complain like that and say NGO. Nine proposals have been made by the Prime Minister, Mr Gerapititi. One solves the problem. I repeat it and I want you to listen to it. It is a unique proposal of the Greek Solution. Determination means life. Prevention means chemical castration in pediatricians. It's over and out. We're done here. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I only hear nine suggestions to hear them. I won't talk about the economy. Time's squeezing. But I'm going to go a little bit to what's going on with the coronary. Mrs Linou came out and said the Prime Minister is not well informed. If it is true, Mr Gerapetti, the Prime Minister must be fired tomorrow morning, now, today. When a member of the committee goes out that you until yesterday exhumed and says that the Prime Minister's advisers are telling him wrong, that means the Prime Minister is wrong. He's keeping the consultants? He's gonna send them off? Or is Mrs. Linou lying, or is she your scientist until yesterday? Do you know what the worst is? And I will now tell the Prime Minister, who is certainly missing. In Japan they invented "Ministry of Monaxy". In Greece the Prime Minister with such advisers will become the Prime Minister of loneliness. He'll be left alone at the end. And it's not even his fault if his advisers say other things and exercise power wrong. But at some point he has to take responsibility too. Ladies and gentlemen, to close, do you know what Erdogan said today? I will tell you what she said: 'The flag is of value when it has blood on it'. That's what he said this morning. For the first time, Mrs Bakoyannis - as Minister of Foreign Affairs you know these issues well - changed the names of the Greek islands of the Aegean, saying they are Turkish islands. Clearly! He said so in a statement for the first time, Mr Gerapetti. That alone had to rally us all and become steel in here. Everybody! All Greek MPs should show the Greek people that the Greek should not be afraid that we should not be afraid. And I will not say that the TSME is illegal where they are, because they are known. Do you know what Churchill said about Turkey, Prime Minister? "This country passed through barbaricism in the decline without knowing civilization," Churchill. With this country you don't discuss, Prime Minister, nor do you go to The Hague. And I'll give you an argument to have it in hand. You know, Prime Minister, what the Hague Court decided in February 2019? That the United Kingdom had to put an end to the command of Archipelagos Tsagos and hand over the islands - somewhere in the Pacific - are these, Mr Gerapeitris - to Agios Mauritius. That's what he said! What did England and the United States do? They didn't hear the court of The Hague. They wrote it in their older shoes, because there is no lever pressure from The Hague. If, in other words, The Hague decides for us, there is no commitment that this result will be implemented. So why do you play as a krone government - letters to Greece and all parties say to go to The Hague? You tell me! Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you all together, because times are critical, to criticise the government for what you want. But, especially in the matter with Erdogan, we must all unite with our voices and say, self-evidently, that the whole political system is united for what is going to come along - I hope that the unpleasant - say all of us together up here, and the political leaders, that the Greeks are not afraid and that the Greeks have a democracy with its problems, but they are not afraid. Because even a thousand Rafale have, this story is a matter of political system and leadership. If there is a political system of decent, national pride and a leader, a leader, any Prime Minister of the country, and we are all united together, we do not need a thousand 'Rafale'. And I'll tell you why. Because we both have the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the officers. We do not, unfortunately, have a policy to unite forces out of here, while the Aegean is trembling from the challenges of the Turks. And I'm sorry to say that. We have to stick together! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] In closing, Prime Minister, I will say this and here I live. The political system, Prime Minister, has indeed demonstrated today that it is not the solution. And I'll explain why. However, I would like you personally to take up your citizenship questionnaire, which is given to every asylum seeker. Listen to questions, my Minister: "What known Greek actress played Lieutenant Natassa in the homonymous movie?" That's a question for Hassan to take citizenship! ‘Reflect the bands ‘Passer Lax’, ‘Termites’, ‘Onirama’ and ‘Olympians’ with the singers in the second row.’ Is that how you're going to give citizenship? Where's the Greek story? Where's the Greek language?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u88	Mr President, we made a deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u89	I'm sorry, Mr. President. I'm hanging up here. Change it! Where's the Greek story? Is that possible? Can we ask about the ‘Olympians’, ‘Termites’ and ‘Pess Lax’? In conclusion, I should like to say this: the political system has unfortunately proved - and I am sad to say this - that it is inferior to the circumstances and that it is not the solution to the problem, but unfortunately it is the problem. Because the Greeks are united outside. We create voting problems. Because, then, the Greek Solution does not want to participate in this paradox, we will tell you one thing. We're the only solution! We are the voice of reason, we are the Greeks that we propose, we judge and always positively welcome everything that is good and we deplore everything that is negative. We want Greeks united for four years to change Greece, because we are the Greek Solution, the only solution! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u90	Immediately afterward, the President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group, Mr. Yiannis Varoufakis, is called on Stepma. I see, Mr President, that you will speak from your seat. Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u91	To speed up the process, the Prime Minister must leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u92	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u93	Prime Minister, the reason we are here today is not that you invited us to discuss public dialogue, the quality of democracy. We should do this separately. We're here because we're starting with the brave Wisdom Bekaterou, we have a gradual discovery of a systematic male, patriarchal violence. Even when practiced in men, male patriarchal violence is. I'm going to say something you don't expect him to say, head of a opposition party. It's not the government's fault. If we were government, we could not find easy solutions, because there are no easy solutions. This abstention, as I said in my protolog, is too deep, it goes back decades and centuries. It's not about the personal morality of the Prime Minister, the Minister, the Chief of Police Vice-Population. It's a systemic matter. It has to do with the domination of a violent patriarchy. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, there are no easy solutions. But the silence that does not break exactly, but breaks a little, reproduces this toxic patriarchy and things that we do and things that we do not do in here - not willingly - help to reproduce this toxic patriarchy. I spoke to my prototype, Prime Minister - you did not refer to it, you tried again to throw the ball in 2015, at the PARIS MATCH this time - and I specifically referred to 'berlusconism', which came to Greece in 1989, which created the image of women - pots - an object which each side sees as a pact. I asked you: do you not agree with us that this 'aesthetic' - within introductory words the word - contributes to violence against women everywhere, in the workplace, in the homes and in the universities? Are you proud of the media, as I say - say 'information' - of the channels which have emerged since 1989 and of their aesthetics in this matter? Are you proud of converting the state in 2012 from Mr Chrysochoid to a state - rapist of the positive women? Say you're proud of what Mr. Chrysochidis did with Mr. Loverdos then, in 2012. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Mitsotakis, can we make a deal? If you say you're not proud of them, I'll be public about PARIS MATCH, which wasn't my best time. Because you have to go, I won't talk any more...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, do not make yourself self-sufficient in the twelfth.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u95	Mr President, I promise you that I will first expect the Prime Minister to agree that the media of mass miscarriage of oligarchs and contractors - the pimps, as Kostas Karamanlis said - have contributed to an aesthetic that enhances violence against both women and men. But, because you have to leave, a reminder: The memorials, bankruptcy imposed more on women than on the average of men. That's clear. There is no simple statistical study to question it. Given that the Recovery Fund - which will be one of the issues that I imagine you will discuss today and if you do not discuss it today, will you discuss it shortly - is macroeconomicly insignificant and will not help prevent the opening of the black hole in the private and public debt, will it not really, significantly, not to throw more women and men - but more women - into the black hole of bankruptcy in periods such as this of the 2020s dazzling, will you say today or even at the next European Council meetings in our partners that this Recovery Fund is too little, that it is too late and that if there is no serious debate on the budgetary pact and what will replace it, this country is facing a new decade of Memorandum dismantling? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u96	Very good. We have reached the end of the agenda with the tritology of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u97	I gave my position to Mrs Gennimata to follow the normal course of the debate and I thank the political leaders who respected the time limits that we had defined from the outset. I shall begin with a general remark. Let us maintain, beyond our convergences and our differences on the issues of political dialogue - which I will then come to - as a pretext that 'Me Too' and the revelations that are being made for the first time in Greece are not of party colour and party identity. Mrs. Gennamas, I do not care at all to smoke this movement politically and partisanly. I have a responsibility, however, as Prime Minister of the country to support it, to strengthen it and to shield it from institutional pressure. That's exactly what I'm doing, and that's what I'm going to do. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I still cannot give up the fact that on the substance of the proposals I have put forward a few things we have heard today. But we will have the opportunity to discuss this again, to work on it in greater depth, because this issue has come here to stay. The mouths opened should not be treated as a median "flake" as an issue that prevailed in time. It's not a mediator, you know that very well. Many of these cases must be resolved - and those finally dealt with in court - away from the lights of publicity. That is ultimately what we are interested in. Above all we are interested in deterrence. I will stress this again, the deterrence, to limit these events to the future. I must tell you that, especially for the part of child abuse, a lot of work has been done by fellow Members. I will personally remind Mrs Helena Raptis, who is in the Chamber and has dealt very much with this issue and has done a very serious job, which is not a party colour, and which I call on everyone and everyone to embrace, so that this problem, the most reprehensible, most heinous part of a broader phenomenon, which we have described today, is properly addressed, properly treated, properly prevented, and where fair punishment is required. It is an effort that unites everyone and we still have many such things in silence, guilty secrets and many cases, especially when we talk about our children, about young children who have a very great difficulty coming to speak and reveal these incidents. That is what concerns the wider debate on Me Too, which I am sure we will have the opportunity to do again in this Chamber. I now come to give some answers to some of the specific questions raised in the second instances of the political leaders. Mr. Tsipras, on matters of rape you were not well informed. So I'll let you know exactly what happened. You will remember very well how great a dust has lifted the change of the Criminal Code on SYRIZA that took place a few days before the elections, without giving us any explanation why this happened. It was an act that many members of your party have supported, as well as the former Minister for Justice, who openly disagreed with this initiative. You know very well that once a new Criminal Code is passed, the better provision is always in place, even one day if it is. That is why we had so strongly criticised the resolution of the Criminal Code as you did, because you have never given any explanation why you have moved in this direction. So we had said in the debate that we had then held in the House, since we had strongly supported your choice, which I repeat, you did not give any explanation at all, that if we had good faith in the Greek people, we would come and change the Criminal Code and we did so. I have here the relevant FEC, under Law 4637, where Article 336 on rape restores to the decade and life for group rape. What have you done, Mr. Tsipras, for these provisions? You voted against them. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Let us be judged by those who hear us. I'll say it again so everyone can understand us. We amplified the Criminal Code from now on. You have voted against this tightening up on these offences. That will finally write history and that is the truth, because at some point the truth does not allow any different interpretations. This is what has been done in this Chamber, and this is what has been written in the Minutes of the House and that will be remembered by this debate by those who are interested in this very subject. I now come to the issue of communication management of what we called 'democracy quality' in how we deal with Internet trolls, whether they are politically or politically identified with our orders, who wrote something in the past, whether we take or not we get distances from them. What do I understand, Mr. Chipra? You can take no distance from Mr. Polakis, Mr. Vaxvanis and from the most extreme elements that are currently leading your policy. You can't. The reason why you do this is your issue. If it makes you good or not, the citizens will be judged - I imagine - along the way. But that is a reality. You have extremist voices that, even today, we are talking about still dealing with the same misery, the same suggestions that you artificially referred to in your dentistry, supposedly you don't want to talk about it, but you're talking about it. The trick is familiar. You yourself cultivate this mud, because that's who you are. You are finally a non-different, but three-sided, "Tsipras - Paulakis - Vaxevanis" - the same thing - and from this you cannot escape. If SYRIZA executives agree to this line, it's your internal problem. The reason why this debate in this House was worthy is because some things might indeed have been revealed. I had the courage to say openly that I disagree with something he said and ask him to withdraw. You have not shown the same courage, the same braveness for at least two of your Members. You read us a series of posts by Mrs. Lovedakis. You have also given us some evidence to show that the situation today is worse than the one it was. I would expect, Mr Tsipras, as you are a man who has a number familiarity, because that is what you have studied, that you can at least read the information you are given. So the evidence shows exactly what I said to you, namely that for our days the number of unaccompanied people in the islands has fallen to a very low level. We created a thousand new positions within a year, where you had created nine hundred. Look, I didn't say you didn't do anything. I want to be honest. I never said you didn't do anything. I said that the credit for dealing with the problem of unaccompanied applicants was given by this government from the European Commission in contrast to what you did. And yes, this government and I personally, Mr Tsipras, have sent a letter to all my counterparts, telling them that if we cannot agree on the relocation of asylum seekers, let us at least agree to support Greece and relocate unaccompanied minors who, after all, are the weakest link in this huge problem we face. And yes, the European countries have responded. It was my own initiative and I am proud to have done so and that many European countries have responded to this proposal. So, as far as the essence of what has happened, what has not been done. I shall now come - and I shall close with that, Mr President - in the reports you have made on what Mrs Desertakis wrote. First of all, the style can really lure me, I think it's a little extreme. But these were written, Mr. Tsipras, when Mrs. Lovedakis was a citizen, she did not have a public office. You're kind of messed up here. He was a civilian. He didn't have a public office. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Ms. Meridakis today has a public office, just like Mr. Paulakis has a public office, she is an elected MP, and Mrs. Eleftheriadou has a public office. That's the warning difference between the two. There is another citizen and the politician, appointed or elected. I imagine that this basic difference can be understood. And close up with one more thing. Indeed, on the Internet at times, very hard things can be written. They've been written for you, they've been written for me. I imagine they've been written for several. I read just one: "Sickly selfish Tsipras". ‘The most dishonest Prime Minister of Postpopulation’. "Tsipras is so little that it makes you feel that now when you criticize him he is like stealing church." "Tsipras has finished politically. The only question is whether he will leave alone or compelled." Who said all this? Mr. Raguss, sitting next to you. I don't know who's more hypocritical, the one who came to you or you who accepted him!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate has been concluded in accordance with the special agenda. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-25-S1-commons.u99	With the consent of the House at 15.22 p.m. the sitting is closed tomorrow, Friday, 26 February 2021, at 9: 00, on the subject of this House's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions; b) legislative work, in accordance with the supplementary agenda distributed.
