ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 24/19/27-5-2021 by Mr Fotinis (Phobis) and Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) will be debated. Charalou (Haras) Kafantari, Georgiou Arvanitides, Ahmet Ilhan, Konstantinos (Nantias) Giannakopoulou, Christos Goka, Georgiou Kaminis, Charalambou Kastanides, Michael Katrin, Vassilios Kegeroglou, Odysseas Konstantinopoulos, Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, Evangelia Liakoulis, Andreas Loverdou Georgiou Mulkiotis, Baran, Dimitrios Biagi, Apostolos Panagiou, Georgios Papandreou, Andreas Poula, Konstantinos Scandalidis and Georgiou Fragidis, with the subject: "The Greek society is racing for education and the future of its children, while the Ministry of Education is limiting itself to major projects and is limited to such projects. Before giving the floor to the first question, I would like to inform you that the honourable Members, who will receive the floor, will be Mrs. Harula (Hara) Kefalidou, Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, Mr. George Kaminas, Mr. Andreas Poulas, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, Mrs. Konstantina (Nandia) Giannakopoulou and Mr. Dimitrios Biagis. On behalf of the Government will the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs Mr.Kerameos and the Deputy Minister for Education and Religious Affairs Mr. Zoe Macreys. The other Undersecretary, Mr. Angelos Syrgis, has informed us that he is inaccurate and will not be able to attend. Parliamentary Representatives from the Change Movement have been appointed by Mr Constantine Scandalidis, from New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Vroutsis, from SYRIZA Mr. Panagiotis (Panos) Skourletis, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Delis, from the Greek Solution Mrs. Sophia - Haido Asmakopoulou and from Mera25 Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Political Planning Unit of Extended Need and Civil Protection informs us that, in the course of the exercise of the "PARMENES -21" TASK "ANTIOS -21" will be conducted on Tuesday, 28 September 2021, as follows: 1. Local time 11.00 ́ air strike alarm signal for a period of sixty (60) seconds (auducible sound of different intensity) 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Local time 11.05 ́ alarm end mark for a sixty (60) seconds (continuous sound constant intensity). The President of Parliament, Mr Tasoulas, has asked for the floor. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u2	I do not want to stray the debate, but because it is also about education, it fits this communication that I am going to make. As today, fifty years ago, Georgios Seferis and the House of Greeks died, honoring his heaviest memory, organized a exhibition in the hallway, which unites Perastylion with the entrance of the Prime Minister's office, for the polytechnic of Seferis, for the thinker, the poet, the diplomat Seferis, starting from the date of his death that is today and his funeral, which evolved into an anti-digitant event of the top. Of course, it is not possible to capture all the work of the Seferis in a report, but we have concentrated on our initiative, we have forty works of poetry and pedestrians, where one can get a taste from this, as I said, a very mastery personality. For the coming months, therefore, it is worth visiting this report and delighting a poet who in 1963 snatched all mankind with the award of the Nobel Prize that unforgettable October. "If the pain is human, we are not only human to hurt," Seferis said in a poem and you will see that through his work all the value of the man, who is to hurt, but is also to act, is to be targeted, but mainly to live free. So the House, ladies and gentlemen, commemorates the memory of one of the world's leading poets and obviously one of the completely top Greek poets with this report that I call on all of us to follow and thank it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President, for your intervention. Indeed, no matter what you say about Seferis, it would be a bit. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the following to this House: 1. The Ministers of National Defence, Finance, Foreign Affairs, Justice, as the Deputy Minister of Finance submitted a draft law on 17-9-2021: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey (acting on behalf of the Government of the Turkish Republic) in relation to the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence for Integrated Anti-Air Force and Anti-Fraud Defence (IAMD COE National MoU). Also, the Ministers of National Defence, Finance, Foreign Affairs and Justice submitted on 17 September this year a draft law on the subject: ‘Strengthening the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey (acting on behalf of the Government of the Turkish Republic) as well as the NATO Allied Commander for Transformation on the Functional Relationship to the Centre for Integrated Anti-American and Anti-Fraud Defence (IAMD COE Functional Relief MoU). The Ministers for Development and Investment, Finance, Foreign Affairs, Education and Religious Affairs, Culture and Sport, as well as the Deputy Minister of Finance, tabled a draft law on the subject on 16 September: "Following the Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco in the field of Scientific and Technological Research". Finally, the Ministers for Development and Investment, Economics, Foreign Education and Religious Affairs, Culture and Sport, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance and Foreign Affairs, tabled a draft law on the subject on 16 September 2021: "Structuring the ELIXIR Consortium for the establishment of the European Research Infrastructure for Biodiversity (ELIXIR). Draft laws shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. We continue with the topical and urgent question. Mrs. Kefalidou has the floor for ten minutes. I would remind you that the initiative of the first question, Mrs Kefalidou, is ten minutes and the five seconds. The next honourable Members have five and three minutes, except for the last two, which have three and two respectively. Mrs. Kefalidou, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are finally discussing today, from 17 May, a timely question from the Change Movement on Government policy to date in the critical area of education. Last May we asked for answers on poor manipulation, frugality, sloppyness and lack of integrated planning on education issues. At the same time, we drew attention to the burning issues that the school and university community would face in September. And what did the ministry do? First, after closing school and academic year with three - four strong announcements and one piece of legislation, he went on vacation. September reached a speedy pace, because, as you know, time does not expect either the ministers, with the questions and problems that are greater than you left, for another year. Nowadays, with one of the most difficult equations of pandemic, there is the Minister, the Government, but above all, I would say to you, the Greek society, which, on the morning of the reopening of primary and secondary school, sees what will happen with higher education, we are not talking about vocational education, and it is still inexistent - and with experts to highlight the dangers of returning students and students to the cobbles. So let's go back to last May. We had insulted you on the burning issues of education, which pandemic and total negligent handling bring you today gigantic in front of dilemmas, strugglings, which have to do with the evolution of the fourth wave of the pandemic, in front of what is finally experienced by every Greek family with children. And I ask you: How do you open schools and universities with rough statements of protection measures, statements about self test for parents to complete? Add to the equation that we also have unvaccinated parents or even negative parents who will write a rough statement of their own or try to find faithful vaccination or illness certificates or - the other amazing - that the departments will close when we have 50%+1 cases. Seriously, now, do you think there's a family that's going to keep sending her children to school when they're getting sick more than three or five of her children's classmates? How do you open schools and universities when you haven't managed to convince 40% of the population to be vaccinated? You remembered to have a vaccination campaign in the young seven days before schools started. We have, meanwhile, and some kind of examination, now, that's running to universities. Some of these children give by living. Will the universities open up? Aren't the universities going to open? We're waiting to hear you. And all this, when you know that the scientific community is already pessimistic and all the experts believe that the opening of schools will exacerbate the situation, given the high transmission of the Delta mutation in combination with the low vaccination rates. How do you move so recklessly and risk the health of so many children, so many young people and their families? How do you surround English as a major achievement, you say, in the kindergarten or chronicly applied flexible skill band, when I want to tell you that all Europe and all the Western world are now engaged, has fallen in the face, to make models for dealing with the Delta mutation, the Mutation and the pandemic wave? How dare you and Greece dare in the second place rate of coronary deaths, after the champion, of course, Bulgaria? And finally, on what conditions and on what basis did you not do anything all July until the end of August to have a safe opening in schools and in the U.S.? I heard the Secretary-General of primary health care who announced the rate of teen’s vaccination coverage and said that he has increased - it is a fact - lately. How late? A few days? When they've already started schools and the universities start soon? Unfortunately, the numbers are relentless. One in four high school students has only made the first dose and the corresponding percentage for high school students is at 13%. The other three out of four? What about the rest of the 87% in high school? And how does vaccination ensure public health with only one dose? I would remind you of your campaign and the announcements made by the Committee of Experts, who insisted that, in order for there to be safety, there must be full vaccination and that 14 days have passed since the second dose. With this data and this delay, where are we going, Minister? For all these issues, and for others which I will analyse, we are waiting, as you can see, for answers. Responses for the inefficiency of measures and legislative initiatives relating to the modernisation of the Greek school and the university. You saw it, too, with the results, we see it, the Greek family experiences it with the children who just finished school. You were talking about security at universities with special guards. Remember, those who have different uniforms, which will be a thousand and have interrogative duties, will cooperate with the Greek Police. Where is she? Let me make it clear that we are not concerned, because from the outset we have been in trouble, authoritarian, I would say, a government choice, which we knew would create more problems than it could solve. We have, in fact, proposed ways of curtailing both lawlessness and crime at the AITs, involving the relevant academic community and the administrations of the universities. If you had the political courage to listen to and accept the proposal for a law, which the Movement of Change had tabled on how to guard universities, the necessary monitoring of vaccination and disease certificates would not be a problem today. It could be safely and efficiently dealt with. The government, however, has again chosen the fancy wrapping up of communication policy to pet the ears of the electorate, which rightly requires institutions to operate safely. Will you tell me, after all, where these four hundred firsts were recruited, if there is a plan and what is it? I say to you: there are no plans. So, do you have to rethink it today, Minister? Should you dare today listen not only to us and to our proposal, which was the product of studying people who knew university life, but also to the academic community? Three days ago academics from all democratic political spectrum returned to the need to discuss a proposal like this, which we as a party tabled, which gives clear proposals and solutions and is not content with complaints. Would you leave wrapping and deal with the content, substance and its implementation? Great theme in the summer the introduction of children to the highest and fiasco of this year's Greek exams, by applying this unprocessed legislature for the minimum import base, which left schools and teachers without students. Today, you all show retrospective immersions and ready for corrections "from next year" you say. The candidates who stayed outside universities this year - and I'm not talking about those who wrote one, two, three, I'm talking about the others who stayed outside to ignore the school that they didn't get through, because your system missed you - you asked them what they're going to do this year? Don't you think you should give them a second chance? Madam Minister, the justification for the rapid implementation of the measure with the educational year frozen in March 2019 was empirically pretexted. Who disagrees that he cannot candidate with a level three or four knowledge on the 20th scale meets the requirements of a university department? Nobody. Who realizes that the state fails to maintain schools with students who never receive a degree? Nobody. From the obvious general assumptions, however, until the imposition of an improper measure, there is a distance, measured at twenty thousand young people outside university institutions, to others because the knowledge they acquired at school was inadequate, but a lot of why they were victims of ministerial experiments. It is also measured by the number of university departments, even worthwhile, which, after the announcement of the import bases, are questioned by the reason for their existence. We are going to the lack of policies for the development of devastated vocational training in the country. It is not enough and it is not enough for us to legislate on a parallel computer to teach children to abandoned and dismantled public vocational training centres, so that the state can say that it has taken serious care of technical and vocational education and, in the end, not to introduce some measured fingers on standard high school techniques. And I will be tempted to tell you a personal example. Parents of children, who do have an appeal to arts, but are not such good students, found an alternative to PSAI standards. So they asked to learn in Athens how much they are and whether they can write their children. The prerequisite was for them to be excelled. Many of these have made great efforts in the midst of pandemic and have succeeded. They go to write and they say, "You know, there's one and that's in Perama". Can it be written in the second year? The answer is "no", you can't write in the second grade. And what does a parent who wants to take his child? The amazing answer given by the people of the Ministry of Education is that he moves to Perama. Conclusion: We are going without a plan, without a dialogue, without a real intention of reforming an area that, with the SYRIZA - ANEL government's makeive choices and finally with the blessings of your government, the country is literally disabled. Let's go to the major theme that created the measures to tackle the pandemic's effects on the student and student community. The governmental ostrichism in the huge learning gaps created by the ultimate successful distance teaching you had made yesterday's flag is a big problem. The problems of distance, inefficiency and the arrhythmias that you see now exist at all levels of education, are perceived by everyone, including the government, but unfortunately with a delay in time. Remember, Minister, what you said a year and a half ago about distance education, which no one, of course, refuses to do. Let's remember how much your government advertised it not as a necessary instrument, not as a defect in living instruction, but as the great achievement that could fully replace the living room. We have told you, we have established that it is not the case, and we have pointed out possible risks to students. But you have circumvented the distance learning process to the magical solution, which would provide you with personal achievement points with eyes and ears closed to what was in the Greek schools: teachers abandoned to their fate, learn from themselves the process of the online course, with shortcomings in logistical infrastructures and no networks, from nonexistent to defect and delayed after the end of the year training and support of teachers and of course support of the school.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u5	Mrs. Kefalidou, you need to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u6	It's a key issue. I would like to see a tolerance, please, Mr President. Madam Minister, you and the EPA should have announced measures to reduce and redeploy the matter as well as a series of support actions and interventions to fill in the learning gaps. And those for the year that ended, who left young children who began to find a stepping stone in the reading and eventually snatching, but also large children who were qualified to be students today and did not succeed. One piece is the year that passed and another part of the year that starts now. Where's all this? Is it on the measurable finger patterns and experimental or minimum professional high school standards? This ministerial inertia gave the first tangible results in June with the performance of the candidates at the AEI and is now seen by all Greek society at the beginning of the new school year. Now, for summer high school, for refugee education, for intercultural education and not talk. The absence of dialogue with institutions and scientific and professional associations of graduates has created huge issues for the graduates of TEIs with degrees that are given without professional results. The lack of will and refusal to change the legislative framework of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL created other chores. In fact, you two years ago, apart from some healing policies with the green and red schools, apart from some party obligations - colleges and some professional rights - and ideological policies such as the university police, follow faithfully the anachronistic orientation, the forgotten content and ultimately the whole core of education policy the Baltas Phil and Gavroglou. Of course, there is one difference: you do it from the other side. Teacher recruitment, the most characteristic example. You have kept the same legislative framework without guaranteeing the ADP, without dialogue with institutions and parties so that the process can be made fairer, more objective, more transparent, at last more permanent, without changing every three and a little, of course, choices of training staff. Already, September is the pandemic here. We therefore hope that you will enlighten us how you think about the course of education in public schools and universities in the year that is already running. We want you to explain to us what you did and especially what and why you didn't do in the summer of the past, how you will deal with this year, and you will convince not us, but the Greek society that hears that not English in kindergarten, not robotic skills and respect for the next. These are very good, worthy, self-evident, but completely inadequate in the face of the major problems. How will the kids be safe in schools? How will they keep open schools and universities? How will students gain access to the licensed university departments, after your obsession with the distortions from applying the minimum import base? Answer us in such a way that you bring in, because we have not heard a word about the national sanitation centre. There is a silence in the tomb about the possibility that children, who end compulsory high school education, can have English certification and IT certification. Answer us about the government's insistence on squatting with fragmentary measures and bungalan legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. Mr. Georgios Kamine has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the strong public school with high quality provision of high-trained education and well-paid educational and modern infrastructure can ensure social mobility and equal opportunities. During the pandemic, education activity entered the age of telecoms with many problems. The quality of teaching through a camera is not compared to teaching through the physical presence of the school class and the amphitheatre. Learning gaps have emerged, especially for pupils of compulsory education, where the "knowledge chain" is more visible. The Ministry should, therefore, first of all, provide for the coverage of the learning gaps by means of support programmes. A comprehensive rather than fragmentary education policy and reform is needed, which will start at the kindergarten and end up at the university. And this cannot be the case only of a government or only of a minister, but a cross-party acquis with the activation of the National Education Council. Different levels of education should be discussed with each other and should be a single path of knowledge leading to the acquisition of the national disinfection through examination by a predetermined topic bank. And this is a fixed position of the Change Movement. Unfortunately, we are still dealing with issues that we should have solved, such as the way in which we enter the AEIs, which we are informed by the Sunday press that you want to change it again or the number of departments and schools, which have to operate throughout the territory with the State Secretary responsible, in an interview with the Athenian Agency. The Ministry of Education in these two years spent valuable chapters in proclamations and unscrupulous reforms. I shall refer to two examples: the university police and the evaluation of teachers. As far as university police are concerned, the Change Movement had tabled its own realistic proposal for a law, but you ignored it. You established the Protection Team of University Institutions, you proclaimed the positions and shortly before the new academic year starts, you 'frozen' it. And as if this were not enough in the recent pet law, you have made it possible for universities to give direct awards, by way of derogation, to all relevant provisions of the existing public procurement legislation, to check that the emergency measures are observed to students and staff in the process of teaching in a natural presence. As far as the evaluation of teachers is concerned, I will repeat what I said in the resolution of No 4823. Twenty-eight pages and twenty-eight articles on evaluation, if I am not mistaken, and finally end up in the farewell article of the relevant chapter, which tells us that the evaluation is merely taken into account for the development of the teacher, that is to say, account is taken of many other unknown criteria. This is not a serious evaluation. This is a steep evaluation and it is, in fact, a centrifugation. In the entire day's school, the New Democracy Government continues on the way back, which SYRIZA drew. The full-day school was a pilot project, launched in 2010 by the PASOK government under the "New School". She was so successful that she had been able to cover 65% of the country's apprenticeship potential. And you come now, with a recent ministerial decision, and introduce an unjustified competition with creative employment centres operating at the level of the municipalities. But we also want public education inclusive, which will guarantee the universal right of minors to non-discriminatory education and, at the same time, ensure uninterrupted access to vulnerable categories of adults, such as prisoners, asylum seekers and recognised refugees. While, in fact, for the school year 2021-2022, the reception structures for the education of refugees have been set up and the secondments of teachers have been carried out in refugee accommodation structures, at some point this separation has to be stopped at normal school and special school for refugees. These have to go to school normally. And that is a request supported by teachers. Also, in cooperation with the Ministry of Migration and Asylum, an integrated national strategy for the integration of refugees into the educational process should finally be decided. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need one or two more minutes. In addition, an examination of the Greek language for the acquisition of the certificate of competence for the physicalisation of foreigners and the Ministry of Education cannot be established for the establishment of special sections preparing candidates for the examination. At this point I would also like to make a point about education structures and staffing in detention stores, as well as about the teaching departments of the Greek language of L.4763. In March 2021, the five-member committee responsible for coordinating and speeding up the procedures for the establishment and operation of training structures was set up. But, so far, if I'm not mistaken, by Joint Ministerial Decision 4265 of 15 September, is only the one-stop municipal school in the Korydalou I detention store. With the rest of the detention stores, what happens? The school year has already begun. When do you expect to set up the training structures? When do you expect to place the managers and the Deputy Directors, which your law provides? We would also like to see a picture of the Greek-language programs organised and supervised by the General Secretariat of Vocational Training and Lifelong Learning. Visiting the website of the General Secretariat, I saw that the latest Greek-language examinations were carried out on November 30, 2019. Is that true? Because if it is true, then the provision of Article 76 remains inactive if one considers that the necessary joint ministerial decisions, provided for in Article 77 of Law 4763, have not yet been adopted. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Kamine. Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, the New Democracy and you are personally speaking, especially when you are opposition, that education is a national issue, but as a government you have been dealing with it for two years now unilaterally. You continue the practice of the previous government, which legislated without dialogue and consensus. Refugee the re-establishment of the National Education Council, abolished by SYRIZA, in order to ensure the conditions for consultation and the necessary consensus for education. During the pandemic you failed to reconcile the need for minimum social and economic activity with the need to protect the health of citizens, especially in education, and that is why we are inclined today. This failure affected students, parents and teachers, causing a serious learning and pedagogical deficit to the students. The lack of preparation and contempt has characterised the education ministry's policy since the beginning of the first wave - unfortunately today - because the prevailing situation and the announced design does not provide positive advances. We call on you because you did not use time for the purposes of education, but you wasted it for the purposes of the government, such as the registration of conduct in the sanitary schools, the recognition of diplomas in private colleges, the placement of party directors in the Directorates of Education, the control of the composition of the service councils and the selection boards, the assignment of the care of universities in EL.AS, the establishment of the minimum basis which has become a maximum "cut" and the degradation of secondary technical and vocational education. Break the single of lyric education and differentiation between education and training for the first time. We're insulting you because you've formed a devastating year for last year's high school children. As if the pandemic were not enough, the reduction of importers has made them even more difficult. You have called on to prevent students from entering the HEI from entering grades ‘3’ and ‘4’. It is a logic that sounds very well, but you form a mathematical algorithm and a process that left out thousands of good students who wrote even more than '12'. Thus, many worthwhile departments were left without students and much more departments remained with a reduced number of importers. We're indulging you because you didn't find rooms to run sections with fifteen children. On the other hand, in many schools, there are divisions merging and an increase in the number of pupils. You have not taken any additional measures for special schools where it is known that compliance with health protocols is not so easy. In several schools, the number of cleaners and their working time decreased. You did not form a protection framework for managers and teachers, to whom you leave them exhibitors when faced with anti-infective groups every day, which many of them refuse to display a self test code for their children that certifies e-submission. I present a document from the Regional Department of Primary and Secondary Education in Central Macedonia, which says that it is okay, let us not apply the relevant document. So you put the manager - and the teacher - in the face of people who have this view of the vaccine for alpha or beta. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The announcement that an educator, who is ill with COVID, will be replaced immediately does not "walk" because there are cases of teachers who have been sick at the beginning of the school year and their gap remains uncovered. Deficiencies of your circular instructions and your outstanding assurances combined with the fact that a department will only close if it affects 50%+1 of the students, will lead to the launch of cases in schools. It is, of course, another application of the logic of 'half the children in the classroom'. You'll only do it if we have cases of COVID of the rest. Of course, the most important thing you were not interested in was to reorder the matter, make spare timelines and detailed programs and prepare a plan for rotating teaching if things are not right. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] We challenge you because in the midst of a pandemic the inequalities in education were widened. You did not realize that a huge educational and pedagogical deficit was created, with many impacts on the future of young people. You have not prepared and you do not have a plan to develop compensatory programmes, as I have already said. You have recruited permanent and alternates with the Gavroglou law you have denounced for his injustices, even in the rules that apply between general and special education. But that is not enough. There's still a lot of gaps. You do not comply with the judicial decisions on the successors of the 2008 SAAP competition and you do not care about the proposals put forward by the Change Movement to resolve the problem. From hard fighters of our reforms you become bad replicators of them only for communication reasons and we ask you for bad copying and not for conversion. You constantly talk about reforms, but you keep the poor SYRIZA school - ANEL. We call on you because there is no provision and no policy for the full-day school, for extending the working hours of the compulsory programme, for the single reformed educational programme, for restoring the full-day teacher, for establishing a certified high school with certification in English and Informatics, for a national sanitation centre, for the autonomy of the school unit. We call on you because you did not support the students of the summer high school, contrary to Law 4777/2021 that you voted on and the highest ground. You have effectively cancelled the 1% rate. You have suffered the autonomy of the school unit, after you have formed a suffocating and rigid framework of education management and control. You made our educational system even more centralised, with strong "administrative" and a strengthening of bureaucracy. You have cut the competences of the Association of Teachers, strengthening in many cases the role of the director of the school unit. You are now selecting managers, having full control of the Selection Councils and the nominated ones. You are talking - but you have already legislated - about a fragmentary evaluation without having established an integrated and modern education system for teachers, which will be a continuation of the evaluation. You are talking about mergers - the abolition of departments of HEIs and partnerships in exactly the same way as the previous government did, without a debate with the educational community, without a debate with society and the political forces on a new academic charter. You leave in the air thousands of graduates of TEIs, victims of Gavroglou policy and lack of matching procedures with the active sections. Minister, there is no other way of continuing the insecurity and inconvenience in the field of education. Jupiter, because of pandemic, doesn't make you uneasy. Education is inextricably linked to the development of the country. It's a national matter. It requires dialogue and consensus. That is why we need a serious policy. Now change the fragmentary and deliberate policy of your choices and proceed to a substantial dialogue not only with the political forces, but also with the educational institutions and society, to see what needs to be changed and how to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. I would ask that the time be respected, because as you see previous speakers, they have also exceeded their denominations, unless they do not make use of the dentistry. Mr. Andreas Poulas has the floor now. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, the new school year started a week ago, and as this is the third year in the middle of a COVID pandemic -19, we are trying to figure out what changed this year compared with last year in the operation of schools. This year you did not donate masks and pilgrims to the students, nor did you do anything to reduce the number of students within the classes, nor did you go further in recruiting teachers to fill gaps nor did you increase the EGE test in the educational community. In our country we open schools with low rates of complete vaccination in adolescents, which raises great doubts as to whether lifelong education lasts until Christmas. The way you open up schools where the doctrine of individual responsibility prevails, how many children will they suffer? How much are they going to need hospitality? Are we prepared for a fierce rejuvenation in young ages? Already, one in four daily cases concerns children, while last month was one in five. And we still haven't seen the print of the school's operation in the course of the pandemic, as this will show in the next few weeks, not to say for months. Even today, when you have entered full educational function, you continue to show complacentness and cynicism, in addition to the contradictory messages you give, when you closed whole schools with a coronary case, it is now required to be absent "50+1" to close the department. You have not done the elementary preparation to deal with the problems of a winter that is difficult because of the great contagion of the Delta mutation. When the Director of the World Health Organisation himself in Europe, Hans Kluge, stresses that without distances and respect for individual protection measures, such as lesson masks and the hygiene of hands and breathing and without frequent tests, the vaccine cannot in itself end the pandemic, what are you doing about it? Restore pupils to small classes where distances from reality are impossible to restrain, while at the same time you have not announced any information campaign in schools on the issue of coronary. For you everything is a matter of individual responsibility and not of state that leaves students, teachers and families at the mercy of disease, misinformation and Internet doctors. Nor should you have predicted that there should be a mobile unit in every municipality of EGE to carry out a rapid test to vaccinate students who wish to be vaccinated? What is your design in case of coronary disease? Will there be televised training for them, or will they be punished by learning gaps that will never be covered except through misconduct? Will you introduce flexibility in absenteeism? How are you going to keep the schools open while by the occurrence of a case in a class, parents will avoid sending their children to school? Last year's lack of education through life for students taught nothing about how schools should function in the midst of a pandemic? Maintaining lifelong education in pupils is important for their social, psychological and educational progress and should be a priority for the state in this difficult period of time that we are experiencing, as well as a key priority should be the preparation of the country's paediatric hospitals, departments and clinics and their strengthening with the staff required to address the possible increase in the need for child care with COVID -19. This should happen in the other hospitals in the region and not just in the urban centres. For example, in Argolida there is a ready pediatric clinic that has unfortunately not been put into operation. What, then, will happen if there are children who will need hospitality in Argolida, but also in other parts of the country? Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy and the question of education seems to have no plan, but has no vision. For two years, she has denied dialogue with the other parties, trade unions, but also listened to the voice of the Greek society that is struggling for the future of her children, so that in the area of education the country experiences authoritarianism and over-concentration of powers in particular persons. The policy of "decide and order", the absence of dialogue and the deterioration of democratic processes, obsessed with the idea of excellence, but without reducing inequalities, depreciating their educational and work, and punishing against them, backward perceptions and returning to inspection, lack of serious planning and targeted measures to tackle pandemic. These are the main features of the New Democracy Government's policy and the results of these practices have created huge problems and omissions in the educational community. For example, I mention the unfortunate and violent application of the minimum import base with the known negative results, the unsuitable masks for students, the intention for the live transmission of the course through cameras, the opaque contracts with the 'CISCO', the increase in the number of pupils per department in the campus, the malfunctioning of the media for distance learning, the tablets not granted to all students, the exclusion of students from the educational process due to a lack of infrastructure, the retrospective and retrospective training of teachers, the equation of college degrees with universities and polytechnics, the police force in the universities, the indifference over the problem with the wrong payment of electronic infractions leading to unemployment, the counter-democratic treatment of teachers which led for the first time to set up service councils without their elected representatives, thus revived the payment of electronics which led to thousands of substitutes for unemployment, the anti-democratic treatment of educational skills, and the lack of excellence, and of excellence, and of excellence, the lack of excellence of excellence of excellence, and of excellence, and of excellence, and of excellence in the excellence influence in the faculence of excellence of excellence in the business directors through the excellence of excellence, as well-priled schools, and excellence, as well-s of excellence, and excellence, and exchanicism in the excellence of excellence of excellence of excellence of excellence of excellence, and excellence of excellence, the excellence of excellence of excellence of excellence of excellence of excellence in the excellence of excellence of excellence of excellence of excellence of excellence of excellence of excellence of excellence, the excellence, the excellence, the excellence, and excellence of excellence, and excellence of excellence of excellence of excellence of excellence of excellence, and excellence of excellence of excellence of excellence of excellence, the excellence, No provision for strengthening and improving Special Education, establishing evaluation only for teachers, and in a punishable nature, without an evaluation of the system as a whole. In the end, I leave the depreciation of technical and vocational education in which, despite all the government's declarations of its supposed intention of upgrading, we are actually experiencing its institutional degradation. Ladies and gentlemen, the government in education, as in health, does not have a comprehensive plan. For this reason, it is dragging behind the developments and the real needs of public education and is culminating in the emergency, which has extended and highlighted the treatment of pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much. Mrs Giannakopoulou has the floor as the next question I asked for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating education today. Let us say something from the outset: The challenge of a modern educational system is the first challenge in the era of the fourth industrial revolution and robotics. It is the first and largest investment in a country towards the challenges of the future in the difficult and competitive environment that is being shaped. I am referring to something obvious, but it does not seem to have fuelled national dialogue to make the necessary areas and reforms. In these two years, even if a well-meaning person sees some positive moves, what everyone will agree is a visible fragmentation that does not allow the formation of a modern philosophy in the functioning of the Greek school and the supplies of the essence that he gives the Greek student. The Ministry has received several bills, but there is no framework law, a law equivalent to the one that brought PASOK and Anna Diamantopoulou, which one could agree or disagree, but which clearly saw the new stigma, the progressive message, innovative proposals, reforms, perspective, real reform. I would just remind you that the councils of universities, an innovation which gave the opportunity and motivation to hundreds of brilliant scientists from all over the world to come and contribute to a more general upgrade of higher education in our country and unfortunately have been disappointed by the undermining of the next education ministers, until of course SYRIZA has come and ripped it all out. The changes in the way of administration, the decentralisation of responsibilities and the break-up of centralisation, the radical revision of analytical programmes and teaching methods, the collapsing of illuminated minds that have been done were things that have come to help and, unfortunately, so many years later, the same things still remain very much demanded. Along with them, let me just make another comment: there are decisions, laws now, which have been passed, Minister, but in essence nothing has changed. The abolition of university asylum is essential. What has changed in substance to the proper functioning of universities? Can you tell us? I think that Greek parents and students themselves can answer you with just one word: nothing. The non-implementation of the law brought us before us in the debate and the vote of a young man following him a law on police departments within schools, which we all know will cause much more tension. So the government itself does not apply what it votes on, resorts to new decisions, and then is overshadowed by the decisions it has made. In fact, you are talking this year about applying this provision to the departments after a year and a half. Let's see what you're gonna do. Unless you bring in another law. Let's go further now. Nearly nineteen months are completed in which the whole planet is tested by the pandemic. We are now in a position to have a clearer picture of the impact that has been caused in the areas of society as a whole under these exceptional circumstances. And, of course, the education sector could not remain intact, untouched by the consequences of the pandemic. Of course, today's debate has to do - and it must - with the major issue relating to the proper and effective functioning of our educational system, this year. The uninterrupted functioning of all levels of education must be safeguarded in every way. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] We all know, apart from the incredible consequences for children's psychiatry and the cultural gaps that exist and are identified, parts of material that have not been covered. Teachers are pillowing about how they can handle this. Chancellor Merkel herself said there is a risk that an entire generation might be created with huge gaps. Unfortunately, I have to say that I do not see your concern, particularly in this particular matter, and at the same time that there is a very curious insistence on shapes and measures, despite last year's experience. We see the way in which you decided this year to start the operation of schools. Let's not fool ourselves, all of us who are circulating in our constituencies, contact the schools of our regions, the associations and the associations of parents and guardians, with the citizens of the parents of children who are in public schools, I as a mother of three children who are in public school, Minister, can tell you and convey to you that all we receive is enormous anxiety and concern...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u15	Mrs. Giannakopoulou, please complete because Mr. Constantopoulos has come.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u16	Sure. We just finally started with another...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u17	Oh, no. He's here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u18	I'll be done. On the one hand, there is concern about the protection of the health of children and of their families in general, and on the other hand we are struggling for the quality and the substance of their education and, on the other, I think, this concern is entirely logical. I'm closing, Mr. President. I would not be able to conclude with one comment on building problems and infrastructure problems. Of course it must be your Ministry, no matter how many times you say it is not your responsibility. We are right - and we welcome Mr Mitsotakis - who was launched a few days ago by the school in Damasi Tyrnavos, which was destroyed by the earthquake a few months ago. However, schools in Aegeleo and in West Athens, Minister, who had been unrealisticly damaged already since the earthquake in July 2019, are still awaiting state intervention in order to be able to reoperate properly and not to be subjected to the students' unbelievable suffering. What are you going to do about that? Nice communication patterns and all the substance if you want your actions. But do something, and especially the Prime Minister for his constituency. We are here with positions and suggestions, with responsibility for a better future for our children, for a better education system.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u19	Hang up, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, please. Instead of five minutes, you've spoken nine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u20	I'm closing, Mr. President. We are talking about our work and our history, Mr President and Minister. And that's why I think it would be useful to listen very carefully to what the Change Movement tells you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u21	As you can see, Mr. Constantopoulos came, while you said he wouldn't come. There's been a mix-up now. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, it is clear to everyone that education is a public good. I would even say that it is a neural area for every society. That is why it is also at the centre of the interest of society, of the citizens, of the new generation. And yet, in our country over recent years, I have not been in a position to say a genuine public debate and, as should be seen with a vision of our education and our country in the 21st century. I would say, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years there has been a mistake in general terms in education. Let me remind you that the previous SYRIZA - ANEL government has brought sweeping changes, without, of course, the expected results it expected. Contrary to all levels of education, I would say, levelling and leading education to the path of error. Madam Minister, on the same path of mistake you are going today as a government, and I would say, unfortunately, that the policies and policies of the New Democracy are moving in the same direction, fragmentedly, without a vision, without a national dialogue, without a plan, without the necessary re-establishment of the National Education Council, which would ensure continuity in education policy and at the same time with great frictions in the educational community and, in fact, with unexplained insistence on past mistakes. And I say 'the mistakes of the past' because the current government is going as I said on the same path of mistake. Ladies and gentlemen, we can speak. Who? The PASOK. Why? Because PASOK has a historically recorded project, with divisions and innovations in education. That is why we do not say words, we put forward proposals. We don't call crowns, we don't propose egos. Today, however, we can only disagree with the facts of the government and with the absence of a national strategy for our country on education. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that pandemic has really changed our lives. But this is not an alibi, Minister, it is not panacea because the insecurity and insecurity in the field of education has lasted too long and I would say that it has lasted much longer than the whole of the Greek society, as well as the educational community. Minister, the new school year began and the government has not yet presented a plan that inspires security for students and teachers and of course all schools can stay open and safe and, in particular, I would say to the students who, today, have begun to orchestrate some reactions with closed schools. Also, Minister, we see a crowd in school classes, when there are many cases where classes can be divided into smaller ones. You didn't do it through the education addresses. Every day you declare your intention of normal schooling. However, you have not taken care of basic things I would say. We saw a few days ago, teachers were led to the self-defense after a parental lawsuit which was naturally contrary to the measures on COVID at school. And I ask you, Minister: How will you prevent such incidents in the future? How will teachers not feel unsafe? Today, what is founded on the educational community is that in the two years of the pandemic, the leadership of the Ministry of Education makes a simple management of the situation without any design. And I would say without any planning, and to address the learning gap of students who are in danger of becoming a serious educational deficit. Madam Minister, I address you and ask you. Is the school established by the previous SYRIZA - ANEL government with limited hours, without full-day operation of primary school and kindergarten, the school you are visionating? Because you denounced it as an Opposition. But today you are taking this road faithfully, a path that leads to the deterioration of the quality of public education and the abolition of thousands of posters of teachers and teachers. I would remind you that the skills workshops you advertised and brought in with the latest bills are nothing but the flexible zone programmes established by the PASOK governments and based on three key pillars: knowledge, skills development, the development of positive attitudes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll take the time of my dentistry, Mr. President. However, it is a question of what your vision is - why we do not see it - which is what your government is planning for the 21st century school is. We didn't see him. There isn't? Or is he still in consultation? We, the Change Movement, the PASOK, are particularly sensitive, ladies and gentlemen, to the issues of education and our proposals are studied, targeted, costed, so that they can bring about a progressive change in the educational community, and we propose a strong high school diploma with the certification of both the Information Technology and the English language, the strengthening of technical vocational education, as is the trend throughout Europe, a national disinfection centre using a network of subjects for the uniform evaluation of pupils, as well as advisory and professional guidance programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the characteristics of modern, quality public education. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the point of evaluation. We all agree and say 'yes' to the evaluation. Assessment in education enhances the quality of the education provided and is for us, for the PASOK, the Change Movement, a key political position and targeting. That is why we want the evaluation to be a strengthening, feedback, of course without penalising teachers, an evaluation which must be combined with the training system for teachers, which you have not done, Minister. You spoke about SYRIZA and I remember that you complained to him here in this Chamber about the abolition of Regional Training Centres. We waited if nothing else to re-establish them. You did not. The conclusions of yours. On the contrary, you have created a system of administration and bureaucracy in education where the great educational, social role of the teacher is degraded. This, of course, is reflected in the choice of training directors. Objection is absent, while there is a lack of bureaucracy. We stressed that in the previous bill, with our positions. We were talking about the minimum import base, we told you to get it back. You didn't hear us. We told you to suspend her. You didn't do it, so thousands of students could find themselves outside universities. There are great injustices suffered by students who lived a whole year away from the school hall, away from school. Of course this is because of the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, the Charter of Higher Education is undergoing constant changes and replacements every day, as well as reclassifications. However, decisions on higher education cannot be based on political decisions and, indeed, on appropriate decisions, nor, of course, can they be taken by double standards. We need a plan, we need objectivity, we need respect for the independent authorities, today in NISAE, and not what SYRIZA did, and the leadership of the Ministry of Education on Gavroglou, who wrote in their old shoes the recommendations of the IPPC. I would even remind you here of the example of my home country, Ioannina, the Department for the Management of Cultural Environment and New Technologies, certified in January 2019 and abolished by a political decision by Mr Gavroglou in May 2019 - draw your conclusions - when this department was certified by the independent authority, he had eighteen LAG members, he had a masters' program, a thousand graduates, five hundred students in the university halls. And yet this section, with the professional rights and the certifications I have said, has been abolished by a political decision. So take your conclusions. We are all talking about Article 16, about political decisions and, at any rate, about the self-employed. You, Minister, while awaiting the decision of the NEAFC on the Department for the Management of Cultural Environment and New Technologies, said that you could not go beyond any proposal that would arise, by a political decision you abolished the law of Patras. So that's two yards and two weights!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u23	Finish because you've been in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u24	I shall conclude, Mr President. These, Minister, are a pitiful example of writing. In conclusion, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to stress that in view of the plan for the European Education Area of 2030, the European Commission has focused on six dimensions: quality of education, inclusion, green and digital transition, teachers, higher education and the geopolitical dimension. And I ask you, Minister: do we in this debate on the education of the future by 2030 as Greece? How do we get involved? How do we contribute? There is dialogue, there is consultation at the moment, in order to put forward our views as a party - we are waiting for your proposal - and in fact we are asking what proposals and what proposals our country will move, questions that we expect, Minister, to answer, why society, the citizens, the new generation are waiting for a vision of education, which the current government does not bring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Dimitrios Biagis is the last of the honourable Member's questions. Of course, you've all exhausted your secondaryities and the above. You don't have secondarys. Here, Mr. Biagi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I'll take my dentistry time, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u27	Will you use your dentistry now? Okay. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, the problems in the field of education are not new or few, and most of the time they seem insurmountable. A week has been completed since the school bell reruns. The students came back a long time later to schoolcoats and the parent’s pamphlet trembles daily. He's shaking about whether their kids are safe, if the year comes out, how he gets out. Still, the conditions for a healthy school year have not been ensured. The vaccination of teachers is still not complete, and the vaccination of children and adolescents is very slow. The concerns are many and obvious in the eyes of parents. Stress, uncertainty and fear aim for everyday educational life. Don't know what situation your kid's going to be back from school. Marvellous? Continuingly? Cough? Will he have been in contact with cases? Will it be careful? Or is it asymptomatic? These are the questions now concerning every day thousands of parents. Ladies and gentlemen, public health and, in particular, public health in schools is not a game nor a pretext, nor is it a negotiable treaty, but it is - I would say - a duty, an obligation and a requirement either in pandemic or in normal situations, and in order to ensure a plan, it requires structures, organisation, hard work and morality. Ladies and gentlemen, over the past two years, we have witnessed atrocious situations in the management of the pandemic, particularly in the field of education. The pandemic has come and demonstrated from day one our weaknesses as a state to design and operate an independent, an essential school system focusing on the student and the teacher, beyond and above the strangles, any movements of political impression and any opportunism. From troubled schools, unprepared schools without any antiseptics, without cleaners, without teachers and teachers, without equipment and adequate school rooms and distributions of problem masks without opposition, we then went to the hererically closed schools. It hurts your hand! From the closed schools we then went to telematics, where the problems and the inadequacy of the state mechanism grew, where the educational community was truly diagnosed, because it proved to be a great deal that learning through the physical presence is irreplaceable both for pupils and teachers. You come today to make the same mistakes - and worse I would say - as if it had not been a day since the pandemic hit us in the door. Again, without a plan, without any real solutions, without intervention, without a plan, to deal with the same mutant and persuasive enemy, but with other protocols and other directives than those we used to precede. While the virus is mutating, without expecting our own immunity, which will put it on the margin, we seem to be dealing with this unprecedented situation with educational protocols, which are inconsistent with the criticality of moments, as if nothing is happening outside the school and within it. When with one case we were closing down schools and classes, now they have to get half the children of a class to be able to get in the process to think we have a health issue alive at some of our schools. Crazy? Maybe. With these policies, we do not combat the virus and its spread, but especially the students - I would say - and their families. Madam Minister, I feel that you are unable to understand the scale of the problem. We are experiencing education within the containers, while the school rooms remain small and few, and the children are many and the spatial contexts are narrow. Parts with overnumbered students in schools that could operate on different shifts to share students and minimise any risk. What were you doing in that direction? How many schools in two years have you been inaugurating? How many decisions have you made in the direction of reducing and not increasing students in order? None. About the school trips? Another painful story. How many new buses were hired to share the students who are stacked every morning to go to their schools? It's like that's not the case. Two years have passed and schools have seen the same and worse image since the beginning of the pandemic. What ergonomic intervention have you made in the classes so that they can accept the same number of students in the new health data? What additional measures did you take? Different breaks or different exits? Which schools, then, do you decide? For the district schools? Did you visit them, Minister, see them? See their rooms, spaces, exits, toilets, windows. What equipment was really distributed - in our schools to deal with the pandemic in the last year? Really, when do you expect to share with our young people this year with the gigantic masks? Or are you going to get in the process this year, after your communal crust, not to give it up? Was this finally a movement of impression and only a move of substance that is not required this year? How many thermometers did you share in schools? How many plexiglass interventions have you made? How many toilets did you adjust? How many building interventions have you made? How do you plan, Minister? From your office? If that's the state's answer two years after what you're bringing us as comfy solutions, then really, I'm sorry not for you, but for our children, for parents and teachers. The same child that the state, Minister, accepts this morning at school with negative self test is unable to go to dinner with its parents in a restaurant because rapid test is required. At the same time, he doesn't need any tests to get his bus to go to school or the line bus. Is there any logic in this whole conversation? No way, Minister. I am not asking for one moment to become either Sweden or Finland. But we ask for the self-evident. To make sense in any decisions. It is no longer possible for our children to be the most vulnerable victims of this latitude. You didn't do the best for them, Minister. You don't help them, you don't support them. You're only fighting them every day. You have carried out tests and failed, according to the criterion of the minimum import base, which you have brought to the forefront, in this later state, the state, your own, keeps you intact in the chair of your ministry. But the last moment has arrived. You must listen and listen to society, parents, students, teachers. Tolerance is over in our society. Patience is no longer there. Change roller, change direction while it's still time. It's already late if we decide a few days later. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u29	Thank you too, Mr. Biagi. The Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mrs Kerameus, has the floor now. Then the parliamentary representatives will speak and in between, Madam Secretary, you will speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The series of parliamentary representatives, if you want to change it, you can. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, your topical question, which concerns almost all of our education policy, is being discussed at a key time in education, the start of school and academic year, a year beginning with challenges and opportunities. Challenges caused by many in the pandemic, which still affect decisions in everyday life. Opportunities, as already this year we have been applying in practice what we have planned and institutionalised the two years that have passed and despite the obstacles that have been found on our way. In the context of the current parliamentary procedure, therefore, I will respond to both the main points raised by your question, on the one hand, the management of the consequences of the pandemic in the field of education after a constant, uneasy effort to continue with the education process at all levels, on the other hand the reforms necessary for education, on the basis of which the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis was elected and which we are currently implementing for two years, with a view to providing more and better supplies to our children, to provide education with a modern and highly effective social mobility mechanism with many opportunities for all. First of all, I should like to refer briefly to the measures we have taken and take to deal with the consequences of the pandemic on education and to ensure lifelong learning in all educational structures. Before I begin, I would like to say a very great thank you to the entire educational community, to our students, to their parents, teachers, training managers, for the enormous efforts they have made throughout this period during this unprecedented health crisis. Of course, I want to say a great thank you to the Committee of Experts, which guides us in a valuable way, gives us valuable guidance at every step of this unprecedented health crisis. Already in March 2020, when the pandemic broke out in our country, the first measures were implemented in the country. The Ministry of Education immediately prepared a comprehensive design - response to the crisis, in complete contrast with what you say in your question about scattered and disfellowshipped measures, for which you blame us. For the truth, I can only quote some of the forecasts, which were made from zero in many cases, under unprecedented circumstances and, of course, with difficulties. We upgraded the public networks and platforms of the pan-Hellenic school network e-class or not that were exploited for both modern and asynchronous tele-education structures, which had been left to their fate in terms of previous governance. We have created a new platform for modern telecommunications for the whole educational community of the country, covering the needs of 1.6 million pupils and teachers for every student and teacher in every corner of the country. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to give you a number: when the crisis started, from 1.4 million students in the country, how many do you think they were registered in these digital systems? It was ninety-five thousand. How many are today? It's 1.4 million. All our students are now registered in the digital systems, which, unfortunately, had been abandoned by the previous government. We completed daily training seminars for the use of the platform to teachers from each school in the country. Immediately, a central help desk of forty people within the Ministry has worked since the first day of telecoms on 16 March, so that no one will stay behind. Directly created website with all instructions and information on telematics. We have ensured from telecommunications providers a zero data charge on all the platforms used by the Ministry of Education for telecommunications and a zero charge and for access to the platform for those connected by telephone. Noteworthy, Greece is one of the few countries that has secured this so-called zero rating. We have launched the strengthening of schools' equipment. When we received the Ministry's leadership, there were four and a half thousand portable devices all over the country. Of the four and a half thousand we have taken action on ninety thousand portable devices, we are only talking about schools - I will then come to our students in the context of digital care. We upgraded schools' connections to VDSL and fibre optic network, in excellent collaboration with the Ministry of Digital Governance, and these upgrades continue in all schools. We have organised a rapid training programme, which has been attended by more than eighty thousand teachers for digital skills, and immediately published instructions from the Institute of Education Policy for distance education programmes, from the first weeks that teleworked. In fact, the programme I mentioned to you is one of the largest, if not the largest educational programme, which has ever run in the history of the country, in the educational area. Similar measures and care were also available for the remaining grades, the IEKs, the IEKs, the IEKs, which used televised tools without interrupting the educational process and the follow-up of the year. We created more than two hundred twenty-two lessons of educational television, which were also being asked out of the border, in Cyprus, for example, for primary school students, in collaboration with the Institute of Education Policy, which were offered daily by ERT2. Throughout the pandemic, EPA's instructions on material coverage were systematically sent, as well as guidelines on the effects of pandemic and psychosomatic development of children, guidelines issued in close cooperation with the School Psychology Laboratory of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens. So in response to a referral by a colleague from the Change Movement, who said: "But why are we not sending instructions from the PPE?" But systematically, throughout the crisis, the IPP sends instructions to both the educational track and the emotional. Because two are the main aspects of the impact on the educational community. These have already been since March 2020, since the first days of suspension of the life of our school units. Last year, a year with objective difficulties and enormous efforts together of the educational community, which, unfortunately, you of the Change Movement deceive when you say, "the year ended without actually beginning", we further increased our struggle not to stay behind and continued to use the tools of teleworking, modern, asynchronous and educational television for as long as the suspension of the lifelong operation of educational structures was required. We have adopted a framework of measures to prevent and protect against the coronary, which are still current and valid until now. They include, inter alia, the mandatory use of the mask indoor and outdoor spaces since the age of four. When we did this, ladies and gentlemen, we were criticised very strongly, 'how do you do this to young children', 'how to breathe, will they not be able to do so'. Do you remember that? Other countries that had introduced compulsory use of the mask at older age revised, discovered and changed their age for the mandatory use of the mask. I am proud to say that our children, I think, have proved to have an impressive adaptability, both our children and our teachers. Different breaks for fixed groups of students. Antiseptics and school cleaning, systematic and meticulous cleaning of schools. Specific measures for customised operation of canisters, computer labs, use of musical instruments. Potential for attending and leaving pupils towards school units at different hours and from different entrances. All of this, according to the valuable guidance of the Committee of Experts. Additional staff. Last year we carried out fifty thousand permanent appointments and recruitments in total, having more teachers than in all the past years to meet the extra needs. We have opened more than two thousand psychologists and social workers to deal with the consequences of the pandemic. There was a UN study in 2020 on the consequences of the pandemic, and our country is only 23%, which went ahead, and it launched additional training staff recruitment. It's just 23% of our country. The additional needs also contributed to the expansion of the full-day school. You of the Change Movement say that we maintain the abolition of it, a legacy of Mr. Phil. But why did we do it? Not only did we establish it, but we extended it to limit contact with vulnerable population groups, such as grandparents and grandparents, a time when the vaccine was not yet in place to shield these population groups. We organized online meetings with doctors in collaboration with the Panhellenic Medical Association and local medical clubs. We have invested in the digital transformation of education, precisely by exploiting this unique opportunity that has emerged. For example, with the 'Digital Care' programme, amounting to EUR 112 million, we have provided EUR 200 for over five hundred sixty thousand young people, from the age of four to the age of twenty-four, for the purchase of technology equipment. In this context of the pandemic, we voted for procedures that had never been digitised before. Electronic recordings at kindergartens, for example. Electronic service withdrawal for our teachers. Instead of running from one island to another in order to sign living contracts, this whole process is going digital and it was done for the first time this year. E-mail certificate, GEL and PAAL digital certificates, e-registration in higher education, e-diplomas, digital academic diplomas, e-registration of training instructors for public IEK. For this year, the recruitment of alternates, as we have said, by fully digitised procedures, reducing bureaucracy and improving the possibility of programming teachers and training directors. As part of the National Recovery Plan, this effort continues with the installation, for example, of interactive learning systems in our schools, with robotic and STEM laboratories, digital tools for disabled students and special educational needs, training of more than a hundred thousand teachers in the new digital educational content and new technology equipment of all Fund projects. This year we begin with a specific framework and increased measures to ensure the living education process. The Institute for Educational Policy has already sent, ladies and gentlemen of the Change Movement, instructions to teachers on the new school year's road map, material management, what the necessary repetitions, guidelines on the psychosociative support of students and other guidelines are. We start with two basic differences compared to last year. I say this because it often sounds - I heard it today - that schools are opening, as they closed. Two huge differences: The first is the vaccine, this precious gift of science. Right now our teachers in primary and secondary are vaccinated, in excess of 82%. And to our children there's an increase. Is that enough? No, I will say it straight away, not enough, and I think it is the duty of all of us, of every one of us and everyone in this Chamber, to convince parents, of the importance of our children being vaccinated, about how we protect themselves first, about how we shield them much more by means of the vaccine. In children with a closed appointment dose we are at 35% for the ages of 15 to eighteen and 17% for the ages of 12 to 14. In universities, rates are much higher and have even changed within the last week. Last week I said that the proportion of students who had already been vaccinated with a single dose or had been ill is 73%. This morning it's over 75%, in just one week, from 75.5% to the students. In staff more than 87% vaccinated with two doses, over 91% vaccinated with two doses. I think that with all this, the educational community sends a strong back message to normality, utilizing this unique gift of science, the vaccine. In addition to all the measures, such as compulsory use of the mask, we have designed - this is the second difference, a big difference compared to last year - increased controls, intensive controls and laboratory tests, rapid, and self-diagnostic, for all students free of charge. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is a case within a section, it may be that the students who sat close to the case will run seven tests a week, laboratory and self-diagnostic, all free of charge from the state. I want to hear the criticism that there are a lot of tests, to hear it as criticism. But I prefer this and our government invests in it. It invests, because it costs a lot of money, as you can see, it invests in the international trend, which the international trend is exactly increased tests, the most effective it is to stop the spread, to protect the school community even more. But yes, there's a change of philosophy in relation to protocol. Last year at this time, when a child was ill, the department did close. Why? Mostly to prevent the spread of the virus at home, not to get grandpa, grandma, mom, dad. Now all these people are already vaccinated or, if not, they can be vaccinated free of charge by the state. On the other hand, we also have a duty to continue education. Let me tell you differently. If the same protocols were in place this year, that the department would close down, what kind of message do we get for vaccination? Why is the world being vaccinated? So since an important part of the population has been vaccinated, should education not continue? To do that, we invest. That is why the government and the Greek state spend a lot of money on many free tests, laboratory and self-diagnostic, in order to shield living. In addition, we created the Edupass Platform, which is interconnected with the National Register of Vaccines, the National Register of Patients, a special platform of the Digital Certificate of COVID -19 and controls the control of health conditions both from the academic community and from the school. We have also introduced the possibility for universities to recruit additional staff, as we discussed with them, to monitor compliance with health requirements. In addition, we have provided for the establishment of vaccination centres within universities and all that given the increased rate of vaccination in universities. So all that I have described to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Change Movement, is, as you say, our frustration in the emergency. You say that we are urging the developments, that we are announcing far-reaching work. We speak with deeds, with design, with actions, with mobilisation, with care, so that in difficult conditions we can support the weakest and not stay behind. I come to the second part, which concerns your criticism of ideological policies, a lack of answers to what school we want and I will briefly answer your questions about the reforms that we have carried out this two-year period, despite its pandemic and difficulties. I would remind you that in this Chamber many colleagues in the opposition said in the midst of a pandemic: “Why do you legislate? You must not legislate. To stop any legislative process.' For one and a half years the House has not been working on the substance because we had a pandemic. We said that we should also deal with the management of the pandemic, but we should also proceed with the reform work, for which the Greek people elected the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and proceeded with the implementation of the largest part in the two years of the announcements already made in November 2018 on education. I'll just mention, for example, primary and secondary. We did the two-year compulsory kindergarten, the two-year compulsory education. Since this year, it has been in force in every municipality of the country. We implement skills workshops in all kindergartens, primary and high schools, after the pilot run last year. Skill workshops are part of the mandatory timetable and give a new dimension to school. They're backing up. Of course, the main mission of the school is the transmission of knowledge, but we firmly believe that the basic task is to cultivate skills. What do I mean by skills? Critical thinking, empathy, problem-solving. All these skills, through new themes, are introduced into the mandatory timetable, such as respect for others, respect for diversity, road safety, sexual education, entrepreneurship, STEM. All these subjects in the mandatory timetable are weighted by educational age. Here, let me mention this. You say, gentlemen, the Change Movement, that we do not have the courage to restore school guidance. But they're inside, ladies and gentlemen of the Change Movement. It is in the program, which is already being implemented and planned to be implemented by primary school, but also in the 3rd grade. English in kindergarten. Last year's pilots, this year all over the country. This has led to many more recruitments, precisely in order to meet this need. I'll say it exactly the way I feel it. Why just private kindergartens? Why in public kindergartens would the parent pay to make his child English? So activities in English at every public kindergarten in the country. New curriculum. The hundred and twenty-three are already ready. Some of these had not been updated since 1998. There had been an important effort in 2011. Many of them hadn't been informed for decades. We do the evaluation of school units and teachers, the multiple book. Almost double standards and experimental schools since this year. They've already begun. Bank for classified issues. Training. Planned training that exceeds EUR 40 million, for example in new curricula, key scribes, skill workshops, neo-definitionists. For the first time, a national action plan on equal access for disabled people to education, which deals with all levels of education. Ladies and gentlemen, permanent appointments. We acted - not in the words - sixteen thousand permanent appointments to education. In this special education, they had never been done in the history of the country through ASP. In general education, more than twelve years had not been completed. The ten thousand seven hundred were proclaimed on July 6th. A month later, in August, they had already been completed. All these people are already in their schools. Vocational education and training. Only indicatively, overall reform, in order to bring vocational education and training closer to the real needs of society and to make a solution for a few, conscious choice for many. Indicatively, have we already created and operated the central and regional councils, which are what they do? They go and see what the real needs of society are, what society needs, and these elements are taken into account in the formulation of qualifications and curricula in all structures of vocational education and training. The first Standards of Professional Lycees were founded. Mrs. Kefalidou, you've made us a little bit more complicated. You voted against it, Mrs. Kefalidou. You voted against the Professional Lycees standards and you come now and you are appalling us because we have not done enough! To accept this criticism. I assure you we will come here and do other professional high school standards. We're going to expand them even further. Experimental IEC, Thematic IEC. We started running Professional Development and Career Offices. For the first time, the training of two thousand five hundred teachers, training specialists and continuing. We have established IEK training guides and certification by the EEA. Specifically, a training programme. For the first time, we have introduced the paid practical exercise. I'm closing, Mr. President. In tertiary education, the National Higher Education Authority was established under the large reform of the funding - among other things - of universities, not as the Minister said - as was done on SYRIZA - not as each Minister decided on the basis of arbitrary criteria, but on the basis of first objective criteria and secondly on the basis of qualitative criteria, criteria based on evaluation by the National Higher Education Authority. We have liberated the postgraduate programs from strangles, the procedures of the PPE Group. I wish we could do more, within the framework that allows us also in the Union framework. With the law on security at universities, we have introduced controlled entry to universities, the establishment of protection teams, the minimum import base, the limit of education. We shielded academic freedom, streamlined the field of translations on the basis of academic criteria. We anticipated private and public partnerships for the construction of student restaurants. We have at least three parts of Greece at least at the moment students' homes, manufactured through PPP: In Crete, in Thessaly, in Komotini, students are built through public-private partnerships. We have invested in the internationalisation of our universities, because we have excellent universities, excellent staff, excellent students, but, in my opinion, we do not have the place worthy of our universities on the international academic map and that is why it was our duty to release this framework. Do not need, Mr Skourletis, the signature of the Minister of Education in order to approve any foreign language postgraduate degree in SYRIZA. Oh, no. Clear. Aristotle founded the first English-speaking medicine in the country and now begins in September, with interest by more than a thousand people, from all over the world. No signature by a Minister, no intervention by the Ministry of Education. Our universities are free to open their horizons, to extend their horizons. We have already established a framework for cooperation for our universities. We are trying to open doors from there on, and it is up to our universities if they want to take advantage of these opportunities. Framework cooperation. The European universities. We have seven Greek universities that participate in European, so-called European Universities. Framework for cooperation with America, with leading universities that participate, such as Yale, Harvard, Barclay, Columbia, NYU, all of these universities, which are interested in cooperating with our excellent ones. Framework cooperation with the United Kingdom. Framework for cooperation with China. All of this in full development, in order to give our country the place it deserves in the international academic charter. Columbia University has announced its intention to integrate Greece into the least countries worldwide, where it has established a global center. Yale has just announced cooperation with the University of Athens. All this in the context of increased internationalisation, an effort to strengthen the internationalisation of our universities. I'm closing, Mr. President. In the two years that we have had difficulties, there are no doubts, and in the pandemic there have been too many difficulties. We acted immediately, despite adversity, to minimise the impact of pandemic on the educational process and to ensure a better education system for all. I shall return, ladies and gentlemen, with answers to all the issues that have already been raised, to the fullest possible extent, in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Andreas Patsis, by letter to the President of the Parliament, is requesting permission from a few days' absence from 22 to 27 September, as he will be abroad for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u32	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Scandalidis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u33	"Our place is closed, all mountains that have roofed the low sky day and night," said George Seferis for our country how he saw it through his own glance. I remember, little boy, who I had read a very small book of philosopher Axelus, where he said to a revulsion: "Do you know what the difference between the Israelis and the Greeks is? That the Israelis heard their prophets, while the Greeks did not hear the poets and their philosophers." It's not just the anniversary for Seferis. I believe that what I have said now is entirely related to education, for which we are now invoking the government. Because our unsurpassed cultural heritage makes the Greek education an element of Greek identity, if he wants to bring together the three basic elements that we all want for a time of rebirth and for our country: Be a humanist, be a patriot and be a democrat and progressive man. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sakhara Sakhara, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council,]] If, therefore, in today's treaty with today's crisis and with the storming changes that are taking place, we want to think, to see about Greek education, we should take all our care, whatever our care, whatever our measure is to make a decisive contribution to this objective. I, Minister, claim that in order for our education to go to this objective, you have no comprehensive plan and you do nothing and no educational reform. You're doing micro-definitions, not reform. I have listened very carefully to you about the dozens of measures you take at every opportunity, about individual small votes in education policy, which do not constitute any change for school and which, in the end, are at great odds. Do they overthrow the average citizen's image of school? They don't overthrow her. Because the average citizen for school would like an integrated pandemic plan, not to see after two years the student's inability to watch and feel the anxiety about it, not to see after two years another experiment on entry into universities, not to see after two years what your government has done at this time, not to see after two years everything that your government has done. You do not have a complete plan to deal with pandemic or vaccination, much more, you do not have the contents of the studies. And it's very simple to see one - one of these elements. Let's see what school will shape cultural identity. What is different today from yesterday, as far as the contents of studies are concerned? What is it that connects our country's course with the development of vocational and technical education, along with humanitarian studies? Where is the school, where can there be the national planning of education through the relevant bodies, by the National Education Council? Where is the national sanitation centre that will carry safely and with merit - and not in the way it took place both years and left out thousands of children - the student from high school at the university? Where is the creative employment school that Greece should have all over the country a lot of schools all day? The experimental and the standards, which you say are developing, where are they being developed? There had to be a massive effort in each region to become bright signals and today these schools, based on new developments. There aren't any. It is not enough to say 'we have voted', 'we have given a computer', 'we have made some arrangements'. These are normal, they would be done by everyone. You are inferior to the circumstances. Where, in fact, is the National System of School Assessment, first and foremost, which will be able to mark an assessment of private educational institutions outside our country, instead of having an eternal conflict between private colleges and universities and all of this, which so far have been unresolved and have been reproducing a confrontation for so many years within the Greek Parliament? I see no such difference between policy and what you are doing and, in fact, you are making things worse. I, Minister, believe that both the learning gap and the lack of research into this gap and the under-education that is being done today and the misinformation of pupils about vaccinations and issues relating to creative employment and the time that schools give it and the abandonment of the support structures of the educational system are today in a reality that is contrary to the needs that we have today. Of course, we also have this permanent controversy with teachers, who have no scope for understanding, who simply calculate that those who express today the institutions of teachers are some bad trade unionists, who do not have a dialogue open to education before you take any measure and bring it here in the House. How many bills have you brought? Where is the infamous university police, which you are again changing the procedure today - from what I understood - silently, changing the minister? Are these reforms or are they patches? That's the question. Minister, those who lived in close proximity to the great reform of the 1980s for the democratic and anti-austeral school and university, laws that have lasted for many years and which have given another dimension to the education process in the country, those who experienced the innovative and anti-powered change in the 1990s - which has nevertheless taken place with great, painful dialogue, with conflicts with procedures and although they have been lacking - those who experienced the mature consensual and modernist intervention of 2010 are aware of the fragmentational and selective and, above all, the ineffectiveness of government initiatives. They do not only suffer from the content of the choices by which we are generally dealing with real problems in the wrong way. They are suffering mainly in terms of their process of shaping and enforcing them. All the previous reforms found resistance to possessed. All of them went ahead with obstacles. They all left incomplete efforts and gaps that were not covered, but pushed things forward, because they were based on a condition, the consent of the educational community which was the only one responsible for implementing any reform effort. Otherwise there is no reform, there are simply arrangements for dubious utility that are generally not implemented. This lesson, unfortunately, cannot be taught by a conservative government because it is out of its nature, it is out of its choices, and the way it decides and how it is implemented by a seat. And here is the warning difference from the progressive party. Against the centralised and authoritarian model of power management, a model of participatory governance should make in the field of education a revolution today. If you believe that this is what you have told us before, and it is a revolution in the field of education, I think you are in the wrong direction. We have called on you for too many issues, and the Members of the movement have set us so long as we are discussing this particular question. I'm telling you, without a plan, the country's not going anywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Colleagues, New Democracy MP Andreas Koutsoubas asks for permission from a short-day absence from 7 October 2021 to 11 October 2021 abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u35	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr Ioannis Vroutzis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Kefalidou, who was the rapporteur for the Change Movement in order to put forward this topical question, as I have followed the debate so far - and I think that this is also a common view of all those who are following the issues of education, their imprinting and their description, and of the Minister, but also of what you have raised - I appreciate, as the Minister said, that the question you are asking is at a time of particular importance. On the other hand, on the part of the government I feel I need to tell you that by asking this question, you are giving it the opportunity to reflect, hide and update all the major central issues of the Ministry of Education, the reforms that have been made so far and to be raised by the Minister, Mrs. Keramos, all these important initiatives that have been taken in the difficult period of the pandemic, but also the positive consequences for education, the unprecedented ones, through the actions and reforms that have taken place, reforms, Mrs. Kefalidou and fellow Members of the Change Movement, which we will agree - and not only the Ministry of Education, the reforms have been carried out, I will say them, the Minister will say in its secondaryity, for reasons of time it has not been possible to expand - that as they are done everywhere in the Ministry of Education have their time. When a major reform that has an impact on the population as a whole and on the sensitive part of the young people of the students, these changes which have taken place do not automatically come to show the positive print. They want a period of maturation. And slowly, it will appear in the course of the years and years how importantly they have benefited Greek society. The criticism, which has been heard, I do not know whether you believe it or did it for just a preliminary reason to show on the part of the Change Movement that you had to say something, and on the occasion of the start of the school period, to say something as a Change Movement, to show that we are moving politically and we have an interest in education. In fact, all these questions you raised were questions which have been answered on the one hand, they have been explained in the last laws of the Ministry of Education that came to Parliament and, most importantly, they are being implemented. You criticised vocational training. Is it a law or is it not a law? Does anyone argue that for the first time in our country, at last, a government, the Ministry of Education, is making an important decision on a major issue which was pending? It was necessary for vocational education and training, ladies and gentlemen, to take place in our country. For the first time with the Ministry with the political leadership of the Ministry of Education and this government. The consequences of this reform that is currently being implemented will be seen in a long-term perspective. It will also be short-lived because for the first time they will graduate at the level of vocational education students, students who will have vocational training and a certificate in their hands, which we now have a lack of skills in the people's labour market. I come to the question of the minimum import base. It is unnecessary to analyse it. From this step we talked about three whole days. A debate was held in public consultation when the bill came. The minimum import base has been applied. For the first time now, we have a framework through which they entered universities, which have the academic condition of completing their studies. This has been recorded and transparent everywhere. For the first time, we have a minimum import base. I come to the issue of upgrading the academic environment. You said we abolished university asylum. Your right is also your opinion. But the reality is that we have restored university asylum to its true meaning and dimension, that is, through an effort to ensure the safety and protection of universities and students themselves. Is it something that's lame? Is that an announcement? No, it's true, we legislate, it's the work of this government. I come to another major issue which has not been very strong. Besides, how's that sound? It was the issue, Madam Minister and Madam Secretary, Mrs McCarry, that she had been working for decades in this Chamber. These are the appointments of permanent trainers, teachers and teachers. The school year started, and we wondered where the books are, where the teachers are, where the teachers. For the first time, then, during the parliamentary term, Mr Skourletis, fifty thousand appointments have been made in total, eleven thousand seventeen thousand permanent appointments have been made in general education, the first time after twelve years. That's what we deserve to say. It's a real fact. Eleven thousand seven hundred appointments, Mrs. Kefalidou, have been made for the first time in the last twelve years. Four and a half thousand assignments have been made in Special Education. We've been recruiting deputys for the first time by a full digitized procedure. That means transparency, efficiency and speed and no bureaucracy. In addition, we had hired two thousand two hundred fifty psychologists and social workers. Is this not a factual proof that this government, this leadership, the political leadership of the Ministry of Education, has done a job, that it has stood by the schools in this critical period that we are currently experiencing and have been side by side with innovative measures and reforms that had the courage and courage to bring to the Greek Parliament? We have heard the Minister - I will repeat, because it has the value of - saying that at the level of vaccines in higher education, there are 75.5% of registered vaccinated students, 87% of managers and 91% of members of the CPI. Here it seems that scientific training and formation lead to the vaccine - but they deserve congratulations - and last year with this. Let's see the distinction now. The distinction is this, ladies and gentlemen, this political leadership and this government in the field of education has faced an unprecedented situation, an unprecedented sea. Never before did the Minister for Education and Government have to deal with this difficult environment around them, one deadlock: on the one hand, the pandemic and, on the other hand, the reforms that had to be implemented. Last year we closed a academic school year with his difficulties with his problems. It was a newborn. It was nothing written and specified to deal with. Of course, there will also be deficits, of course, there will also be mistakes. No one said we were incorrect. However, an effort was made and the academic year and the school year were completed. And it all just happened. And at the same time, there were reforms. Legislative work has not stopped. With determination, the political leadership of the Ministry of Education proceeded and opened the horizons to what we had undertaken in the pre-election process. Be careful, what Mrs. Keramea and Mrs. Macrie do, is not arbitrary and creates them now, from zero to zero. It was New Democracy announcements before we became a government and we do it. Ladies and gentlemen, because I happen to be a parent, I would like to tell you that I have had personal experiences of this particular situation, because if you are a parent you see from within how the system works. I, along with my family, experienced the pandemic period at educational level. My son completed his postgraduate at ASAE, his second degree last year. They deserve congratulations to both teachers and the University of ASEAN for the perfect function of the pandemic period, by teleworking, from home. It also needed two, three lifelong lessons. And I had my second experience with my daughter, who completed the Department of Electrical Engineering in Metsovio Polytechnics willingly. And he spent the last few years in the pandemic period. Madam Minister, I would like to say, with my personal experience as a parent, congratulations to both the ASE and the Electrical Engineering Department at the Metsovio Polytechnics University, where I had the experience. They have worked perfectly, beneath you, this difficult period. And I close, Madam President, - and the Minister will say much more, I cannot say more in six minutes - with my constituency and also with Greece's islands. I will tell you specific figures for island Greece, where there are particularities and problems. In Cyclades we have two hundred 11 teachers in secondary education and four hundred four teachers in primary education. Six hundred fifteen teachers, that is, they are ready, appointed today - and with books the children - in the Cyclades. In the Dodecanese we have six hundred fifteen in secondary education, four hundred thirty-four in primary education, 11 in music schools, a total of sixty. Overall, in the southern Aegean - in the most sensitive area of our country, in island Greece - we have a thousand six hundred seven hundred seventy-five teachers and teachers in schools to teach the children of our islands with the specific features. Ladies and gentlemen, the enemy of goodness is the best. But we must not be miserable or petty. This government and this political leadership of the Ministry of Education did the hardest things, in the hardest environment, with the most difficult portfolio and went extremely well. Congratulations to the political leadership, Minister, to you and to Mrs Makre and to all your partners. The hard stuff has been overtaken. We are optimistic about the future of both Greece and society and the educational community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Foreign Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Zetta Macrey, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Madam President. I will imitate Mr Scandalidis and I will begin, in response to the Members of the Change Movement in relation to what they have told us, with a paraphrased Central Municipality: 'I am a little angry with me, because I should have matured and wondered about it'. Ladies and gentlemen, a serious and responsible government, elected to implement major, substantial and necessary reforms, invests in education and shields the new generation and the country. In order to meet the challenges and unprecedented conditions of the global health crisis, it gives children - regardless of economic potential and origin - equal opportunities and supplies to survive in the multi-dimensional society of knowledge and information, in an extremely dynamic and globalised environment, in a labour market that is not static but incredibly competitive and unpredictable. Kyriakos Mitsotakis of twenty-five months of his administration has shown that public education is a national priority. It's not just his political and government choice, it's more a New Democracy bet and his, personal bet. Our parliamentary representative explained that it was our government programme. With Minister Niki Kerameos and with all the political leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we have now proceeded to an extremely large number of reforms in public education at the level of legislative work, as, after all, we committed ourselves to our election programme. We have also moved on to extensive initiatives and interventions, major and small, systematic and pilot, but absolutely essential, necessary and beneficial for the educational process, reforms that will be implemented in order to blow up the air of renewal, innovation and freedom, reforms that will finally end the anachronistic pathway that is suffering all the levels of our country's public education, reforms that will radically change a finalised system that remains the most centralised and highly centralised and bureaucratic, with very little administrative decentralisation in relation to the rest of Europe's education systems and cannot continue to go ahead with the anachronistic and traditional limitations of the past, cognitive memorialisation and distraction, the fragmentation of knowledge and their passive acquisition, reforms - finally - that unleash the educational process from bureaucratic aggression and commitments, with greater degree of autonomy and freedom. In order to adapt to the specificities and needs of the Greek system, it is necessary to adapt to the specificities and needs of the Greek system. So, concisely and indicatively - because the Minister has mentioned them in detail in its prototype and because of the limited time - for my area of responsibility, I will mention the following: We upgraded and adjusted the public school to cover all levels of infantry and primary and secondary education. We modernized private education and private school. We have strengthened initial vocational education, training and lifelong learning, creating the first six ESDP standards and implementing parallel computers to make more use of the alternatives of our young people. We are also universally implementing the two-year pre-school education at the kindergarten. We build methodically and coordinatedly the modern school with renewed content and philosophy, introducing a hundred and twenty new curriculum programs, including skills workshops in the compulsory timetable and English language in kindergarten. In addition, we organise dynamic and modern standards and experimental schools by doubling their number from sixty to twelve. We are finally changing the philosophy of the matter being examined and replacing the biblicentric model of memorization with the cognitive model of the multiple book, aiming at cultivating critical thinking and real acquisition of knowledge and skills. We are also investing in our human resources, our teachers, training them horizontally and doing an act of eleven thousand seventeen hundred appointments of permanent staff, the first after twelve years - the Minister made a reference, I will repeat it - following the four and a half thousand permanent appointments made in our special schools last year, the first ones in educational time. We apply and promote school autonomy. We are strengthening the structures for supporting the educational project. We are moving on to the evaluation and improvement of teachers and training staff. We apply the 'theme bank', we promote, within school units, the strengthening of teaching for all university courses in question. We restructured church education. We are setting up new educational structures, increasing the training advisers to eight hundred and hiring even a thousand psychologists and social workers to support children as a whole and address extremely worrying phenomena such as that of bullying, and every group of schools will also work with counselling offices as well as professional guidance offices. At the heart of the reforms, ladies and gentlemen, it is the digital shift in public education that made it compulsory, due to the health conditions, for the implementation of distance education that kept the process alive and functional and was a challenge to all those involved in the school year before. The pandemic crisis, despite its dramatic consequences for all the manifestations of life, was the golden opportunity to achieve the digital leap in education. It has been founded catalysts in the review and reorganisation of our educational system in order to make it more effective, inclusive and comprehensive. The digital switch in public education resulted in the digitalisation of the entries at all levels of education, the installation of digitally substitutable teachers, the elections of councils in schools, the award of secondary and tertiary education, the training programmes for teachers in the use of digital means, and the development of skills in vocational education, the establishment of digital curriculum, books and educational materials, the upgrading of connections of seven thousand school units to VDSL, the strengthening of portable digital equipment in schools of four thousand in June 2019, and the provision of EUR 90 000 for five hundred students, students, trained for the purchase of digital equipment. Our teachers, whose adequacy, competence and zeal we trust, who recognize our agony and daily efforts for the best possible level of educational work produced, and whom, of course, we warmly thank for their great devotion, but also their enthusiasm to embrace the challenges of telecommunications in the past year, these teachers will continue to improve and enrich living teaching with the digital acquis. Last week, ladies and gentlemen, our children returned to school in lifelong learning, which cannot be replaced by teleworking, after about two years with the greatest possible safety, with adapted strict protocols, with a large number of self-diagnostic and laboratory controls - almost daily in some cases, as the Minister said in detail - as has been indicated by experts and with what was missing in the previous years, namely the vaccine. We must therefore all agree in this Chamber that we must, with reasonable and scientific arguments, convince and appeal to teachers - the few unvaccinated, almost 10%, but it is an important figure and it is our concern at the Ministry - to hurry to make the vaccine and to urge our fellow citizens, parents, to move forward with the vaccination of their children from the age of 12 and over - or when scientists and younger ages - always in consultation with the children, because vaccination is the right option to shield children against the fourth wave of pandemic. We already have encouraging signs of vaccination in adolescents. I will not tire of repeating the figures as the Minister said so. But we can do better. That is why our Ministry has taken the initiative for information activities in this regard. I do not see, ladies and gentlemen, that we have great ambitions for building modern public education. The moments do not allow inertia. When there's a matter, when there's a problem, we don't retreat, we don't want to blind ourselves. We are dealing with this with negotiations, controversy, consultation, theory, but also with policy that is planned, planned and implemented. We don't go beyond the found weaknesses as if nothing had happened. We do not think that everything is open, that everything is allowed and no one should be criticised. We do not fortify behind ideas of self-sufficient and self-sufficient or modest bricks. We're not talking abstractly. We don't have any delusions. We don't make enemies. We select modern educational policies for new legislation. Change and improve chronic pathogens, overcome resistance, break taboo. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] It is our duty, our duty, a condition for our existence to implement reform policies, correcting wrongs and injustices. We will not apologise for that because it is our moral and politically and morally legitimate obligation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, too, Minister. Mr Skourletis, SYRIZA Member of State, has the floor now. Here, Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, Madam Secretary, I heard you before when you were speaking from the Stepma to feel the need to thank the educational community for its efforts all the time in difficult conditions for schools to function. And if that is true, a political leadership must do so. However, I understand what you are doing that you have a full understanding of the content of your thanks. I do not understand the "thank you" teachers on the basis of your 16th Circular that you are threatening them, instead of calling them into dialogue on critical issues relating to the functioning of the school. I do not understand the "thank you" against the seventeen thousand additional students who, for the sake of your choice on the basis of the minimum import base, remained out this year of those who would have stayed. We're talking about seventeen thousand more. I do not understand the "thank you" to the students who have promised them policemen instead of new recruits in the LPI. I do not understand the 'thank you' to the children of night schools. You have effectively abolished 1% of these children who have had the right to enter higher education. We are completely in solidarity with the forty-nine parents who have appealed to the S.H.E. against your own decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the infectious, doctors, say that one in three cases is children. On the basis of this reality - which I imagine to be without question and which leads you, as from what I learned, a moment ago Mr Economou announced that every Wednesday the EGE will provide particular data on cases in children - you realise that it means a great burden to you. It seems, however, that this burden has not been understood, because the schools - and it is not a form of speech - are opening this year as they closed down last year. One-and-a-half year after the pandemic you do not have to present to the large urban centres in the direction of the dilution of the school population or one more room, saying that they need conditions. Did you sit down with self-government? Did you sit down with every municipality to see what possibilities there are to find new rooms or do you think that the measure of 'five plus one' of the cases to close a section is not an extremely risky, dangerous measure not for children themselves who are supposedly going to pass the disease slightly due to age, but on the basis that a 40% of the population is inconsistent? These kids have families. They'll go to their families, and possibly they'll be the broadcasters. There may be the reality of a reduced based on the objectives we should have achieved a rate of vaccinated, but there are still many unknown parameters in this case. How, then, with a health system that you did not support and left without recruitment - not more people work, equal to your punishment and there are very many hospitals in the region at the moment - you are choosing for the second year to risk health care in Greece, the functioning of the health system? And we are not only talking about COVID, because when the system is pressed by COVID, it leaves the other diseases behind. At some point, there will be evidence of what people, unfortunately, have not been able to deal with the chronic problems or other serious diseases due to the fact that just a large part of the public health system is geared to the fight against COVID. You had the tools to do that. You didn't. The EGE should have the responsibility of opening the schools. In the large schools, in consultation with the municipalities, mobile workshops should be available to perform tests on the school population and on the educational community. I didn't hear anything about the masks, this last year's fiasco. This year's masks aren't necessary? Do they have to pay for them by themselves? You told us we were blaming you because some people didn't want to put a mask on. Not in this Chamber. There was no one in this Chamber. These can be said to create impressions outward to those who may be irrational and say such things. This year, why didn't there be such care, but for masks that work, not like last year's case? To school cleaners the same. The money you've given is stuck, not enough, and there are worthy mayors who show a different way of dealing with, who put on the money of the municipalities themselves to deal with these issues. Madam Minister, I have been steadfast in your attitude towards an incident that has no precedent. It is rare. I am referring to the attitude of the New Democracy MP, Mr Bogdanou, to publish information on young people in an extremely unimportant and racist manner, and you did not find yourself as Minister of Education to say a word. Do you agree with his attitude? Don't you feel the need to say something? What kind of inter-educational message do you give the students themselves, when the Minister of Education says nothing on the same day - maximum hypocrisy - the Prime Minister calls Antetokubo to welcome him to the Mansion of Maximos to give him citizenship, and does he now cover these messages that are dense of your lines that are a more permanent element of the identity of your prolongation? Congregation with extreme right-wing attitudes, racist perceptions, with intolerance, is the common identity of many others today with whom you coexist in the New Democracy. On this occasion I would like you to tell me: The twenty-five thousand refugees on camps will have the opportunity to go to school? Is that what you're concerned with? We saw bright cases and we applauded, moved by children of refugee who through very difficult conditions were able to finish school and went through the exams. Your party, however, has given examples of how it perceives these issues when it voted against the regulations of the SYRIZA to enable the second-generation children to acquire citizenship. I am referring to the previous government. As if this were not enough, since we are talking about the issues of pandemic and cleanliness in schools, Mr. Voridis denies twenty three cleaners who have been working in the Municipality of Athens for years in the cleanliness of schools, who are legally employed, but do not have Greek citizenship, to be hired this year. Another sample of racist intolerance and discrimination. Ladies and gentlemen, I was listening before what colleagues from the Change Movement said, and I thought, Minister, that perhaps during the recent remodelling you were anxious, because it could be Mrs Diamantopoulou in your place. Such a coincidence of opinion now? This is not something new, of course. Many things together your party has done with Mrs Diamantopoulou's party. In the issues that seem to be going on this year, in evaluation issues, you choose a completely distorted way to approach the question of evaluation. You do not understand that it cannot mean an evaluation of a school unit without being coexistent with permanent institutions and training procedures for teachers. In fact, you also consider the question of training to be an unfavourable transfer. There can be no evaluation if it is not overcome to its greatest extent or fully the issue of permanent education workers and the reduction in the number of assistant teachers, which, if you look at the percentage based on those employed in education, has not been reduced in recent years. Will there be a direct replacement clause for each retired person with an equivalent permanent intake? Why don't you do it? You did the permanent recruitment contest, and it is the only thing that you followed the way the previous government opened up. It's good, but it's not good enough. Instead of dialogue, penalties, threats, anachronistic views and methods that turn us into '82 on the crucial question of evaluation, which should be a collective matter. Madam Minister, you have made a policy which is clearly well-defined and socially biased. The minimum import base has created new customers for private collegeers and at the same time it seems that you are confronting education, education, self-evidence of education and training. It is a tragic mistake, it is a deep anti-educational one, at the same time that direction from Europe - and you know it well - is to increase the population of higher education graduates. You are taking measures which will lead exactly to the opposite result. I would therefore like to say clearly in this Chamber that these punishing provisions which you have recently voted on on on the subject of evaluation will be abolished by the next SYRIZA Government - Progressive Alliance. We are in solidarity with the fight that teachers are taking, and we will cover them completely, and we will restore those who are being persecuted. I say this because we have experience of your own government, the previous one, of what a vengeance means to teachers. School and education today need twenty thousand teachers' appointments that need to be launched directly, they need to double the membership of the CPI, they need an expensive school, a school that is a priority, as well as health. You know that in order to find the money to support an expensive school and a reliable public health system, you cannot give taxes to the 'nexts' through extreme class tax reliefs, as you did in Thessaloniki in the case of people holding eight hundred and eight hundred and eight hundred thousand - because it can also be three - objective property, that is, a two-tier property, making it a parental provision to their children and not paying a single euro and that in the name of being allowed for others. But there was the previous one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Comrade, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u42	I shall conclude, Madam President. Restore the Topic Bank, a choice which, together with other measures, will increase the school leak. In short, your policy is a policy that creates an outbreak of tension, is biased, old-fashioned, anachronistic, sees education through the narrow horizons of the needs of a certain economic order and specific economic interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece and MP for the Thessaloniki I, Mr Delis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, fifty years will be completed today by the death of George Seferis, but I will not begin with any of his verses. I will simply ask myself what, really, is the position of George Seferis' work in Greek education, in schools and in school books. The answer hurts a lot. It explains several things and, of course, highlights the time-consuming responsibilities of the Greek Governments. This year at the beginning of the new school year, except for children’s smiles and vivid youth, who have been so missing in the past months, there was also a diffuse anxiety about the conditions in which education will work. You see, it's been a week since the schools opened, but the government has again been untapped and unprepared. As if we are not in the fourth wave of pandemic, as if it did not see that the "delta" mutation now threatens youth, the government neither took from what we heard nor intends to take those minutes, the preventive measures to curb the pandemic in schools. And yet, Minister, you had time and time to have had money if there were no sections with more than fifteen students - that's what thousands of teachers and parents have been telling you so long - and to find the extra rooms, which are there, as long as you want to find them, and so that there are no vacancies of teachers and to locate the educational gaps that the pandemic has caused, of course, in order not to expose them, but designed to cover them. What didn't you have? You didn't have political will. That's all you need. Money, of course, you know how well you share here and there. To the big tourist and transport companies, let's say, the millions you give with the scoop, but for education you prick them, you consider them to be a cost. So, for schools, you were suffocated into a sanitary charm you actually made, that is, a dispersal protocol, overtransmission of the virus. It is true that this protocol does not even provide for the decontamination of the Chamber after a case, it does not even provide for quarantine of the close contacts of any case. And you come here trying now - and all the time - to hide your heavy responsibilities for the safe operation of schools behind the vaccine. But the vaccine, however necessary - and of course we agree - is not in itself enough, Minister, because it cannot replace all the necessary measures we have told you to ensure that the schools operate safely. And you really don't know that the vast majority of teachers have been vaccinated? You know. Aren't you aware that all of these people will be in a large mass of pupils who either do not belong to the age of vaccination yet or have little vaccination coverage rates? That's why free tests must be for everyone, not just for the invaders you're talking about. Or tell us how there will be complete surveillance and full reporting of cases. This is why, instead of looking for EGE for the schools, teachers and students and parents from here and there, EGEY must be in his schools with his stairways so that EGE himself can take over and inform about the vaccination responsibly of the parents, students, teachers and educators and, of course, the EGEY will monitor the course of the vaccinated students individually. At the same time, however, as a government, Minister, in the pandemic, you are moving quickly and without, in fact, any practical measure, the protection of schools, in very few schools in the country at the moment when we are talking about it - and we are telling you it responsibly - an integrated, complete programme with all the teachers can be established. At every school, a teacher, some specialty will be missing. The identified gaps are at the moment twenty - three thousand, which are very many. The phenomenon is more acute in special education, both in general schools which have inclusion departments and parallel support, and in special schools themselves. Let me give you a typical example. Here next to Byron, the 6th Municipal School and the 7th Municipal School of Vyron do not function in the field of integration because there are no teachers. As far as parallel support is concerned, the needs of parallel support in our country, Minister of Education, are at 30%. What does that mean? That an instructor of parallel support instead of having a child tracking him from morning to time he's going to comment, goes to two, to three, possibly even to more children. This is not parallel support. This is parallel suffering. And the rest of the time, what are these kids doing? They admit from here and there. Thousands of teachers are inseparable and according to research carried out to appoint the fifty thousand teachers who have been returning in a suitcase all over the country would need less than 1 billion, i.e. one-sixth of the expenditure you give for NATO. The question of school roofing is ringing a bell. You will of course have heard Lagada's two gymnastics - outside of Thessaloniki - looking for a roof from here and there. You will hear of course - and tomorrow or tomorrow, I think they have a mobilization - that the 3rd Elementary School of Eukarya, a popular, populous neighborhood, was decided by Christmas, he says, to take a lesson only in the afternoon because the building is inappropriate. What does all this show? They show that there is an acute problem with school roofing. Anyway. So at the time all this is happening, you all your time - and energy, I would say - are dedicating to him how you will implement all those reactionary educational measures that you have voted on in the pandemic and with closed schools and universities. We did not question you the right to legislate, but what happened was not so fair. What should we want to do first? The law you voted on last July that schools are turning into businesses with parents and you make them run for sponsors to be able to function, since the state gives you less and less? This law that you divide schools into categories a, b, c, d - autonomously say these schools - which each according to their category will also learn different letters to their children? The law with which you are now going to impose all these reactives on teachers by means of the so-called 'assessment', with threats and fears? So nothing is taught from the past? Listen, no matter how many falls you squeeze the word "upgrade", no matter how many threats you put off, no matter how terror you exercise on teachers, never, but you will never succeed in making them accomplices to your anti-educational plans, nor in the policy that adds new obstacles to education and to study the children of the people's family. Already the teachers - you know it, of course - are being organized and will again collectively and massively cancel the new operation of their manipulation. And since the phrase 'upgrade of education' made it a candy of your propaganda, we ask you directly: What kind of upgrading of education is it that inappropriate places in kindergarten rooms should be turned into completely inappropriate places? What kind of upgrade are preschool education infants, tender young couples' sprouts, forced to form teams in kindergartens to play on the children's corners and this should be forced to do so in the gypsy kits of kibo and container boxes, with which you have flooded many school, high school, and even high school yards? Or do you want to remember that recent "bare" of the minimum import base that you brought last February in the middle of the school year - and what year? Not whoever and whoever packed a package with the police at the universities? We have seen the results: fifteen thousand more than last year, forty thousand in total, the ones cut off by the universities. And of course, all of these are too many, that's what the numbers say, there's too many of these forty thousand for the few positions they give public IEKs. And what do you think? Isn't that a jealous clientele for private traders in post-training and training? Unless that's what you wanted. Tell us. Let us not forget that, since this year, New Democracy and the Bank of Issues which, along with those measures of SYRIZA which have made high school even more competitive, will become a psycho-corruption centre, as will the fact that this year's limitation of choices in computer technology will apply. If we remember the law you passed last December on technical training then the picture was completed. From the fifteenth of the years - yes, from the fifteenth of their years! - the children of the undergraduate vocational schools are kicked out of school to get to work. You are practically baptizing this, underage work. You have even reached the point instead of caring for those so vulnerable children who are growing up in social institutions to complete the school, you have been sending them from sixteen years old to the work of big-time and businessmen. That's where you arrived. This is the rot of your farm system. Finally, someone will say, after a year and a half, that the universities are starting to function alive. We recall that in the time of the pandemic so far the casinos may have opened, but the universities have remained hermetically closed all this time. But you know what? They are good for you - and we have heard them a little while ago - for the high rate of vaccination of students and staff in universities, but they would be of greater value if you met the other demands they have - because they have other requests - to be diluted, let us say the students in the course, to operate in the universities for vaccination centres and rapid test, to recruit missing teachers - and there are many missing - as are cleaners. Now to close - and, of course, I thank the President for her tolerance - if you think that youth will accept all the things that are blackping her life you are wrong. Our people's youth will surprise you for its struggles once again. These struggles have already begun with the great rally last Wednesday and of course continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Asmakopoulou, Member of the European Parliament, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the problems in Greek education are many times over, but during the pandemic period they became glossy, from reduced spending on education to the lack of equipment and teaching staff. We in the Greek Solution have made a series of questions about flaming education issues such as, for example, on 31 August we tabled a question on the conditions for participation in the pan-Hellenic examinations of the Humanities Guidance Group of the previous years as regards whether they will be examined in the Sociology or Latin. The graduates of 2021 who intend to re-evaluate all-Greek exams for their introduction into higher education schools are many and have not been taught Latin, since the Latin teaching was launched in the school year 2020-2021 for the second grade during which a significant part of the grammatical phenomena are considered prerequisites for the acquisition of the material of the Latin Graduate 3 course. This means practically that if the Ministry does not allow graduates to choose to study in the course their families have been taught, they will have to put their hands in the pocket and pay tutorial courses to cover the matter taught in two educational years. It is important to remember that Article 166 of Law 4635/2019 on the introduction of old graduates in higher education through pan-Hellenic examinations for the school year 2019-2020 provided for the option for graduates of the previous school year. In particular, it indicated that for the 2019-2020 school year, the graduates referred to in paragraph 1, who wish to participate in the universal examinations of candidates in general high school, may choose to participate in them either, first, under the terms and conditions applicable to school year 2019-2020 or, second, under the terms, the conditions, the material examined and procedures in force in the school year 2018-2019. However, as far as the publications are concerned, which I shall present, in the end, candidates of older years in the next pan-Hellenic examinations will be considered in Latin and not in sociology. We hope that this will not apply because we consider it imperative that the Ministry should allow graduates in 2021 at least for one year to choose which of the two courses will be considered if they want to take part in the pan-Hellenic examinations for their admission to higher education. Otherwise, the account of free education is also formally broken down. What about preschool education? The first bell for thousands of preschool treatment children finds them in precat rooms and tiny containers placed in uncovered apartments. Containers on public plots, in school yards, as well as improvised structures within already operating school structures, prove the truth. Relevant publication I'll submit to the Minutes. So you made sure to find viable solutions for the thousands of pre-school children even though you had three years at your disposal? The kindergarten area cannot be treated with caution, but must be characterised for its modern standards on the basis of international standards, promoting its smooth and long-term functioning. With regard to the practice of students of the Public Institutions of Vocational Training on 26 August 2021, a CSR was published for the practice of students of Public Institutions of Vocational Training of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs setting out the amount and manner of coverage of the costs of the paid practice in the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, the public participation in contributions and the remuneration of the trainees during the practical exercise, as well as the terms and conditions for its performance. There are no references to DIKs from other ministries and public bodies, while there are press releases which do not specify that they are Vocational Training Institutes of the Ministry of Education. Confusion also exists with OAED's DIAKs supervised by the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs and the DIEKs of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs. The OAED DIEC in Aegaleo, for example, appears to be the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, while the OAED's DIEC in Agios Ioannis Redis does not appear to be the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, as does the IEK of Sivitanidia. There are other serious issues as to whether to continue to be paid for the practical exercise in them, as well as what is to be done with the IKUs under the supervision of other ministries. There are too many issues and time limited, but tell us, really, what happens to the Ministry of Education websites, since the website of the Public Sites and Applications Register does not work for a long time? I'll testify in the minutes the response of the browser. We would like to know the opinion of the NSA on the Ministry of Education's website and if it received the approval of the Minister of Digital Governance for its inclusion in the MIDISEF. The same should have been done on the websites of the public school units of the central regional services, as well as the supervisory bodies of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, Article 106 of Law 4823/2021. We have also found that you do not inform them. For example, the last question of parliamentary scrutiny posted on the Ministry's official website is on 15-2-2019, the corresponding card, too, will be lodged in the minutes. We in the Greek Solution believe that there are no other discounts to the education of the Greeks. Finally, support all areas and all levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, my colleague. Ms. Apatzidis, Member of the Eastern Attica, Mer25, now has the floor. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is a key problem in the government's education policy, which has not been sufficiently emphasised in the question of the Change Movement, and that is its classic character. This is a class trip to the friends of the government - oligarchs - the individuals we see everywhere, at all levels, unfortunately. Why and all the e-food scandal what is it exactly? A simple application of the Hatzidakis law that destroyed labour relations. It is the well-known tachychychychychychychychychychychychychychychychychychychychychychychychum. In this way, a company moves the cost of its insurance to the worker and takes away the working rights that it must provide. The Prime Minister does not like social media - social media - and it is clear why. As social media struggle prevented the abolition of rights conquered by hard struggles and the conversion of workers into insecure 'precariat' to the mercy of speculators. What happened with the company e-food shows that society has woken up for good and that the days of "Metsotakis SA" are counted. Prime Minister at the IGC thinks he can buy out the young with crumbs, bytes, as Mr Samaras has once said. This is the same youth that has been humiliated by beatings in the squares, cracking down at universities, abolishing importers, because the government wants young people not to be shaped, but to be unskilled, cheap workers without supplies for the future. But this youth gives its answer to the streets, squares and amphitheatres and yes to the social media, which today have the power to cancel the policies of big companies, such as e-food. They have the power to even overthrow authoritarian regimes. They did it in neighbouring countries, they will in Greece too. Young people resist self-government and the commercialisation of education. We would remind you of what you have legislated: the abolition of university asylum, the establishment of a university police, the deterioration of public vocational education, which actually pushs youth into the lap of private IEKs, a minimum basis for introduction, with the same results as the equalisation of diplomas and private colleges with those of public HEIs. The logic of all this is - as I said - deeply classic and is to exclude children from public education from poor and middle households, especially from tertiary education and to give up the education process in full to the rules and market conditions, by transforming education into a privileged field of enrichment of the government's schoolmasters' friends, by reproducing a class and toxic oligarchy. In primary and secondary education we had legislation to transform private schools into purely speculative businesses and are generally awarded superpowers to managers, increasing their term of office and with a hierarchical authoritarian model, reminiscent of armies or téléloric-type factory of the previous century, where the teacher is treated as a mere application of administrative orders. As regards higher education, however, the aim of the Government is to weaken Article 16 of the Constitution in order to allow individuals to establish colleges which confer the same professional rights as higher education institutions, see NCAs, etc. This is why it establishes the minimum basis for introduction to higher education. Over twenty thousand candidates stayed out of universities with the only outcomes in private colleges or the creation of an army of unskilled late workers. As MERA25, however, we immediately tabled an amendment to the immediate abolition of unfair and irrational HSE. Obviously it was not accepted, because it opposes the government's plans for education. We will continue to testify, Minister, over and over again. And of course, we have tabled an amendment to Spanish high school, which has been irreparably affected by the minimum import base. The Government has taken the form of a standard of sperm and day-to-day high school in terms of the conditions of admission to higher education, through the minimum import base. However, the students of the summer struggle on a daily basis within the vortex of their professional and family obligations, while not having the time to study and are usually unable to resort to private care centres for economic reasons. This means that the single minimum import base for daily and evening high school - in essence the abolition of 1% - is, in fact, nullifying for schoolchildren the possibility of social mobility through public education and perpetuating social inequalities. It is also alarming, however, that the police dominance that is being promoted in universities is also worrying. The government treats youth as potential terrorists. This practice, however, violates paragraph 5 of Article 16 of the Constitution concerning the self-employed, as Greek Police with the IEO as responsible for the processing of personal data is constrained. It breaches Article 16(1) and Article 16(1), as the collection of any information could pose serious problems for the freedom of academic expression and the promotion of research. The privatization of higher education is the true motivation of the New Democracy and of the commemorative parties that are consistent with its logic. That is why we will always be against you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, my colleague. Now we are going to secondary and by the honourable Members, Mrs Kefalidou, MP Dramas, have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Madam President. We expected the Minister and the State Secretary to become a little wiser, to understand whether there is a coherent rationale for government choices on education issues, to get a reasonable explanation of the criminal delay in taking measures to ensure the safe opening of schools and universities - the EGE has not been heard at all by the Minister's lips of entering into some of the educational procedures for reliable tracking - to finally learn the roadmap of the current school and academic year in measures to treat oligopoly - because these are happening in a state - the ways of controlling the implementation of those announced and decided by the Ministry of Education's leadership. We waited, like the Greek people, for answers, but we didn't. What did you tell us? That everything happened right. And after you did everything right, then why did the kids forget to read? Why were university seniors unable to do diplomatic duties and could they not practice them? Why are so many thousands of kids left off? Why doesn't the Architecture of Xanthi have any freshmen from general high school? Zero is the number of importers. Why do regional universities experience sudden death? You say "We put English in kindergartens, because we don't want parents to pay for schooling". Why don't you do the same in the Free and Linear Plans to the High School children? Why do parents have to pay, pay, actually, pay these extra lessons? So you do very well to thank parents, students and teachers, because alone and deserts lifted all the burden of the Ministry of Education's insufficiency. The fact that the schools were able not to shut down, not to collapse, is not because of the government, but because of the Greek society, which is already ready to do anything for her children. What are you telling us? "You know, we are consistent, we are following the election programme of the New Democracy and we are on this basis moving forward. We'll agree. You have a box in front of you, what you do at every moment the loose ends are left and you vote. You don't do it. Then what happens? You said about professional high school standards, which you already told us we voted against. Well, in order to be clear, Mrs Keramemos, Mr.4763/2020 on vocational training was voted on by us as regards Article 16, that is, the philosophy of having PSAI standards, but we disagree with the way you go to implement it. First of all, you divide the general high school from professional high school and secondly, we talk experimentally and PSAI standards, a completely different philosophy from yours, so we voted against the way in which you go to implement it. Now let's go to the E.R. How predictable was the situation that has been formed in universities and retrospectively breaks your head how you can correct it? So I answer directly that it was perfectly predictable. The establishment of the minimum import base, a tool that could be serious, for the resolution of the quality of our universities, was treated by the Ministry of Education's leadership as a firework in the hands of ignorants. It was implemented without planning and without the elementary study of the impact it would bring. It is like wondering how it is possible to believe that only with the announcement of the minimum basis would the image change in the HEIs. So far it's your interest, a measure for the eyes of the world. And August came, with the results, the known ones, and the glow of the moment was erased. Today, omissions and failures are being wasted greater and deeper, regrettably losing their child's effort, not because their knowledge was insufficient, but because the new system is coming from everywhere and no one thought to check it out before it was put into practice. Schools without students, because while the Ministry was busy with statements and announcements on the channels, university teachers put the cubit very high, without taking a look at the degrees of importers in the previous years. Classic examples are the School of Forestry in Dramas Prefecture, mine. Schools empty shells, because their subject matter has no demand or because - even worse - it is far from home for children interested. Remarkable sections in the unclaimed, because you did not bother to inform students about the possibilities of business future they provide. Minister, the measure of the minimum import base but also the evaluation is necessary, but not as a vehicle to close universities, but because it is dishonest for the state to pretend that it forms its children and shares degrees without a job and even more often without an impact on education itself. As the essential work for quality school and quality studies is postponed indefinitely so that professional rights can be automatically granted to graduates of all kinds of unreasonable colleges, even retrospectively. At the same time public university schools are being abandoned in self-regulation of their shortcomings and the secret wish in your mind is to close, if possible, by themselves. What academic criteria and what redeployment map are we now talking about? Ladies and gentlemen, the universal assumption that modern, functional educational institutions are firstly open, filled with students, students, teachers and academics, automatically creates a great obligation for the state to ensure their conditions of operation in good time. The pandemic's spiral, for twelve months, has come to be summed up to the critical chronic problems, which remain open and unsolved. And since you spoke about reform, the great contribution of the Ministry of Education and the legislative choices of today's leadership lies mainly in highlighting the extent and extent of the distortions, but which it is still in practice maintaining diligently, reproducing shortcomings that have become obsolete and sometimes clashes. To this day, the government has only managed to sum up its own. I fear that the moment is near, which the President of the Hellenic Paediatric Society said quite rightly, "We will not manage to keep our schools open until December", because the children have not been vaccinated or have not been vaccinated sufficiently until the school's operation begins. The days are over. Schools have been opened. At least take care of the minimum time left until winter, not to be shaken by other communications without content. Don't stay uncomfortable about everything being done right. Bend on the problems, which are many, are complex and the pandemic adds to them. Finally organize and implement a program that will keep schools and universities open, functionally and mainly safe. First of all, responsibility is yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Kerameos, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the fruitful remarks. I want to come to this, to the positions that each of us takes within Parliament. I listened with great interest to the representatives of the Change Movement and I would like to place myself specifically in the positions it has taken. Point 1st: professional high school standards. Ms. Kefalidou told us earlier that she sought to find other professional high school models, wanted more, Mr. Scandalidis told us about "they had to develop massively". What did KINAL do? She voted against professional high school standards. Subject: Minimum import base. In the timely question, the Change Movement spoke about the correctness of this measure, not for this year but in general about the correctness of this measure. What did the Change Movement do? He voted against the minimum import base. He voted against the parallel computer. Why, Mrs. Kefalidou? Why not allow children to have the choice, that is to say, to choose the way of the university and have the choice for the public IEK? The Change Movement has chosen to vote against. Point 3: evaluation. And here I want to read positions of the Change Movement that speak of evaluation, with the aim of improving the quality of the educational project. What did the Change Movement do? Not everything. Not in Article 104 for evaluation of an educational system. Not in the training manager's evaluation procedures. I mention them, because we're talking about other things, Mrs. Kefalidou. But you say here over and above the Step of the House, and in the end you do. In these two years you have been in a systematic - more than SYRIZA - a tendency to vote negatively on everything. You said today - I noted it - about English in kindergarten and skills workshops 'these are very good, worthy, self-evident'. What were you doing as a KINAL? You voted against. You voted against English at the kindergarten, you voted against the skill labs, and you just told us that they are very good and worthy! Who are you laughing at? School guidance: In the timely question you tabled to the House, you say in particular that school guidance needs to be fully restored. What position did the Change Movement take? He voted against the skills workshops which have been in place since this year and which include school guidance. It also voted against the establishment of internal rules of operation of school units and the evaluation of the educational work of pilot and experimental schools. He voted against the schoolteacher and the measures against school intimidation. Really, why doesn't the Change Movement want the measures against school intimidation? Why doesn't he want the schoolteacher? He voted against the transfer of students on the basis of economic and social criteria. He voted against the establishment of foreign-language undergraduate studies, although in the KINAL proposals it was a matter of setting up foreign-language undergraduate courses for foreign students. And I ask: why did KINAL vote against it too? I mention only some indicative positions of the Change Movement, and I am sorry for that, because I cannot believe that the Change Movement disagrees with foreign languages. I can't believe he disagrees with the evaluation. I can't believe he disagrees with the skill labs, English in kindergarten. And yet, the Change Movement chose "not all". I now come to individual issues raised during today's rich and fertile debate. First of all, there is no doubt, and I think we all agree that teleworking is a valuable tool, but it can never replace living education. And I think we all agree on that. Moreover, there is no doubt that there have been great difficulties in education in the middle of a pandemic. There have been failures, clearly there have been difficulties, but training has stood up. In this context, as I have said before, I am very grateful to the educational community for having made a decisive contribution to the continuation of the education process in the middle of a pandemic. You said that the EPA should issue directives on the coverage of matter, on the repetitions and so on. And yet it has been done. It's been done since the beginning of the pandemic. Since the beginning of this process the ILP has systematically sent instructions to school units and about the educational process, i.e. the educational content itself, but also about the emotional part, the psychotic evolution of children. The question has been raised because the departments have not doubled because teachers have not doubled. I really want to say it the way we feel it. If it was possible for the ninety thousand sections to become one hundred eighty thousand and the sixty thousand teachers to become three hundred twenty thousand, we would be the first to want to do that. It was said, too, why not follow the school on two shifts, eight to twelve and twelve to four. And I ask, what would the parents do? So, for example, if the school went eight to twelve, when would the parent work? Nine to eleven? I say this because it has been followed by the Civic Opposition. I would also remind you that SYRIZA found no rooms to extend the kindergarten to four to five, namely to extend the kindergarten year four to five for one of the fourteen years of school. He didn't find any rooms. This is where we're talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u53	The same thing is kindergarten? The art of lying you've adopted!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u54	So here we are. SYRIZA didn't find it, and for that very reason, when we took over the Ministry of Education's political leadership, it was clear from the services that in dozens of municipalities there were no rooms after the election in July 2019. Here I would like to stress this. The international trend is vaccine, it is compulsory use of the mask and it is also increased tests. And I would like, if I may, to read you a paragraph by Mr Majorkins, who says the following in a recent article. He says: "All statistical models show that the most effective transmission control policies in school halls are the often test, the use of the mask and the control of symptoms, while the less efficient level of students' density is reduced. Mathematical models of the University of New York estimated that in order to achieve a 40% reduction in transmission in school rooms through a decrease in density, students should be divided into three and be rotated every three days of school alternately. On the contrary, a 70% reduction in transmission is achieved once a week through the universal test. Current policies provide for a universal test twice a week." This is what Mr Marjornin says at the 'Kathimerini'. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I'm coming from now on. I referred earlier to the need for the new protocol, which was put forward by the Committee of Experts itself, and I reply to Mrs Kefalidou on the EGE. EGEY has sent to schools a detailed protocol on the functioning of the schools. Over fifty pages, cooperation between the EGE and the Committee of Experts. This protocol has been sent to all schools in the country. And I ask, what's the proposal of the Change Movement? We have a specific proposal, the international trend that says vaccine, compulsory use of the mask and increased tests, too many laboratory tests and self-diagnostic tests. Is there another proposal proposed by the Change Movement? Refugees: I want to remind SYRIZA that during the pandemic the Ministry of Education together with UNICEF and other international organisations ensured that the teletexts were translated into eleven different languages, so that the children of refugees, migrants, can follow distance education. The flag skill workshops also respect for others, respect for diversity. It is a huge priority for the Ministry of Education to respect the other, respect for diversity. I would remind you, Mr Skourletis, that SYRIZA did not vote for skill workshops which include precisely the integration of these children through the workshops. He chose not to vote 'yes' in that provision. To cleansing staff, you say 'coated money'. The data are specific. For your day, the funds for cleaning staff were fifty - five million. This year is eighty-five million. Mr. Vorides has announced the details of the cleaning staff. Not only do we have 30 million more cleaning staff, but we also have 20% more staff for our schools across the country. You say 'no information campaign in schools'. I want to remind you of this. Directions of the Institute for Education Policy. Instructions of the EAFRD. Campania with a TV spot. Frequently asked questions and answers by the National Committee for Vaccines, questions and answers by parents themselves, and their responses to concerns about vaccines. It was announced a moment ago by Mr. Economou that tomorrow at four o'clock there will be an online event on Facebook and on the official website of the Ministry of Education, in which Mrs. Theodoridou, who is the head of the National Committee for Embolisms, and Mrs Papaevangelou, will answer questions about child vaccination. We were criticised because we did not make a campaign earlier, and the answer is this. As you know, in the summer, approval was given for the vaccination of children under the age of eighteen. And as you can see, starting a campaign in August would not be very effective. That is why, at the first opportunity, we have worked effectively together with the National Committee for Vaccines and with doctors and doctors in order to answer the legitimate questions, the concerns of parents. Too many of us are parents, we have children, we have concerns, which is why it is very valuable to assist the Committee of Experts and the National Committee for Vaccines with answers to the various questions. I would like to point out this: the fourth wave of pandemic is pounding the invasive ones in particular. It is true that our children belong to the invaders very much. And as Mr Economou said today, if you look at the numbers, you will see that before the start of schools children and, in general, the invasive people are clearly many more cases, they are at a much greater rate and grade than they are obviously vaccinated. As far as universities are concerned, I referred earlier to the increased percentage of students vaccinated, staff, members of the IGC. Already in just a week we have had an increase in student staff. From 73% we went to 75% to the students and stay very high, for example, at 91% to the LAG members. I'm closing up on the reform issue. She said Mrs. Kefalidou said there was no training. Mrs Kefalidou, as you know, we voted for a bill which for the first time provides for a holistic reform on vocational education and training. As you know, five thematic IEKs have been established and already operate since this year. The Central Council and the Regional Councils which participated in the social partners and which have the task of detecting the real needs of society. All this information is integrated into the process of both curriculum and skills in vocational education and training structures. We have the STEM in Aegeleos, Thessaloniki "Health, Social Care and Services of Wellness", in Acharnes "Natural Environment, Sport and Recreation", in Yannina "Primary Sectors, Processing of Products and Sustainable Development", in the Twin "Primogenous Sector of Product Processing and Sustainable Development" based in Suffli. We have five experiments in Carditsa, Patras, Glyfada, Thermi, Lamia. Do we want more? Sure. Let's go do it together. It's a first step. We still have a lot to do, to expand even more, and professional high school standards and experimental and thematic IEK. Of course, I would remind you of the Recovery Fund, where in particular in education we have a budget of EUR one and a half billion, which is a very important part of vocational education and training. More than EUR 100 million is allocated to strengthening equipment in vocational schools, public IEKs, vocational education and training structures. Appointments: I want to believe that everyone in this Chamber agrees that appointments were absolutely necessary. They had been assigned for over twelve years. There was a need to strengthen, enrich the human resources of education. SYRIZA went to Thessaloniki and never more or less with the good morning he told us that he would make twenty - nine thousand assignments to education. Why am I saying twenty-nine? He said twenty thousand are going to be done in schools, two thousand ICPs, he put one to one, he says - for every one who leaves. We've got over six thousand, nearly seven thousand. We have reached the twenty-nine thousand assignments to education. How many did he do when it was government? He made zero appointments. This is the reality of SYRIZA's attitude to the needs of educational staff. I'm coming to the minimum base. On the minimum basis I have heard various positions. I heard Mrs. Kefalidou saying the system missed. The topical and urgent question itself is about the correctness of this measure. How's it going? Things are as follows: We are no longer mocking our children. I would remind you that this time last year we were discussing how the green light was given to young children to enter the university, while objectively they have no opportunity to study and graduate from the university. At the same time, studies have been upgraded and for the first time our universities have been given a speech on the criteria for admission of students. Of course, I find it incomprehensible that the debate that is taking place on colleges, when the opposition ignores public training, when thousands of young people have chosen to apply for public IKUs in our country in specialties that are in too great a demand on the labour market, such as web designers, such as web developments, such as tourist accommodation technicians. We cannot ignore the area of public training and public IEKs. So I, ladies and gentlemen, would like to close with the wish: everyone taking a clear position in two directions. First of all, 'yes' to lifelong education and 'yes' to vaccination. Can we do that? I want to think we can all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Scandalidis, MP of Athens of the Change Movement, has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, unfortunately, you continue the same tactic in your dentistry. You identify our 'no' every time with our absolute refusal. I would like to remind you that on a large number of issues that we agree with the government we are generally voting on, as well as on many issues that we have tabled other than yours are deaf. We have tabled an alternative proposal on asylum. You didn't accept it. Your policy does not apply. We tabled an alternative proposal for the notorious university police. You didn't accept her. Your policy does not apply. We have tabled a proposal for technical education. We have tabled a proposal on standards and experimentally integrated. We have tabled a proposal with measures against the pandemic for the start of schools. You didn't accept them. Today, we have huge problems. We have tabled a comprehensive proposal on vaccination and you have not accepted it. This tactic is wrong. And you asked us a number of questions with headlines. In the headlines, we agree, in everything you said about whether we want the standards, if we want one, if we want the other. Of course we do. In the proposals and choices that implement the headings we strongly disagree. We disagree on the contents of your policy. We say 'no' to semimeters and selective choices. We say 'no' to timeless experimentation. We say 'no' to insecurity practices for students. We say 'no' to inappropriate policies. Obviously we say 'yes' to lifelong education and vaccinations. Can we say 'no'? Our 'no', however, is not a denial. There is another alternative that we are presenting, and you do not accept it and, finally, you are making policies that are facing the whole society. Do you know where we wanted to say yes? We would say 'yes' to a national project which you cannot bring. You have no opinion on the national plan for an integrated educational reform. And we suggest that you have the initiative, because you are the government and you can credit this plan to open up a dialogue with the entire educational community, with its institutional bodies and give content to institutions that are written in earlier laws and do not apply them and make your own decisions. Make a brave move for a truly great educational reform, as we did at times and you never acted like a party. As far as I remember, you didn't do anything in the training that stays in history. As for the headlines you're saying, we're the ones who brought them, we're the ones who gave it content. So don't make striving policies. There are no straitjackets. There are parties. There are routes. There are proposals. There are controversies. In this controversy, you have unfortunately been measured and found few.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor for your tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Scandalidis, each party has the right to take a position. And you can well, since you believe in evaluation, since you believe in the standards of schools, go out and say it, support it, do not vote 'no'. But now I have called on you to take an official position on two issues. First, lifelong education. You want her to be trained for life? Go out and say it, go out and call it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u59	We did.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u60	And, secondly, in vaccination, we all have to send a message together.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u61	We also voted for the mandatory vaccination you brought, and we also say 'yes' to lifelong education.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u62	I say it is very important to send together a message in favour of vaccination for the ages at school, a clear message. I think there's a chance to do it, and we have to do it for our educational community, for our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the number 24/19/27-5-2021 topical question of the Parliamentary Group of the Change to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs on the concerns of the Greek society about education and the future of children is being held. At this point, we will have a short break and at 16 a.m. the topical and urgent debate will begin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that the following questions will be discussed today: Question No 1054/13-9-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Apostolos Vessiropoulos. The numbers 1043/13-9-2021, 1044/13-9-2021 and 1055/13-9-2021 are to be answered by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Question No 8379/679/2-8-2021 (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure), to be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. The number 1038/10-9-2021 and 1039/13-9-2021 topical questions, which will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy Mr George Amyras. The number 1036/10-9-2021 and 1050/13-9-2021 topical questions, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Eleftherios Aygeakis. Question No 1047/13-9-2021 (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure), which will be answered by the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Georgios Karagiannis. The number 1049/13-9-2021 and 1053/13-9-2021 topical questions and the Question 8034/15-2021 (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) which will be answered by the Secretary of State for Rural Development and Food Mr Georgios Stylos. We move immediately to the third debate under number 8379/679/2-8-2021 of question and application for the submission of documents in the circle of petitions and questions by MP B2' West Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Subjecting high-voltage lines to St. Anargyros, Agia Varvara and Aegaleo". Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this question was put in writing a month and a half ago and it remained unanswered. That's why I'm coming back. Why is it impressive that he stayed unanswered? On the one hand these self-evident questions are not answered with very specific questions, and on the other hand, the Prime Minister came and made another commitment to the mayors of western Athens two days ago that the work of substituting high-voltage cables will proceed. We wish that, but we have too many questions. I'll be clear. The Prime Minister again announced on 29-32021 that he will proceed to subjugation the UV network and the Municipality of Agia Varvaras. Let me remind you - and we have discussed this many times in the House - that in the Municipality of Agia Varvara we have the pillars on the houses. I mean, for example, it's a building - it's hundreds of them - and the pillar is on top of it. At the same time, we have such examples within the schools of St. Anargyros. The basketballs are almost on the pillars. These are unthinkable situations when the World Health Organisation speaks very clearly about the effects on the health of the high-voltage pillars. The Prime Minister again announced, as he recently did on 29-32021, and Mr Amyras came in response to a timely question and said he will go ahead with the works of subjugation in Acharnes, Cameroon, Heidari, Fly, Petroupolis, Iloon, Byron, Nea Makri, Penteli, Oropo and will follow Mandra, Megara, Paienia, Koropi, Cesarean, Nice and Glyfada. Nowhere I love it! Holy Barbara nowhere! As far as the Saints Anargyros are concerned, we know that there is a problem with the contractor and a timetable has not been announced. We wonder what will happen. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, I would say that the questions I ask you are very clear about why they are excluded from the notices on the Recovery Fund and what is going to be done with the Ruff Plan, which, as you say, depends on the subordination of the cables for St Barbara and Aigleo. Yet, FYROM Ruff has serious problems of urban nature to start, while it is on the archaeological site that many antiquities have been found. We are calling among the documents for financing these projects, for inclusion tables in the Recovery Fund. What is the provision of the Archaeological Service? What's gonna happen? Is there ever a chance that the FYROM will be completed, or will the Prime Minister come again and again and promise a project that will not be done with this planning? We want tangible answers, because we see general declarations by the Prime Minister. We want you to tell us that they are in place and to explain how they will be implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis. The State Secretary for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. Here, Mr Tagaras, you have three minutes to answer Mr Arsenis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, as far as your first question is concerned, I will also refer to DEDEN projects and, of course, to projects relating to the IPTO networks. The DEDDIA airline substituting projects that have been integrated into the Recovery Fund concern medium- and low-voltage networks, because the DEDDIA, as I think you know, does not have a high-voltage or high-voltage airspace within Attica. The high-voltage network of DEDN in the Attica basin is all underground. The proposals put forward to the Commission for accession to the Recovery Fund concern, firstly, the upgrading of the network within urban environment, in order to enhance the resistance to climate change, but also to protect the environment - subordination of lines, line shifts - and, secondly, the upgrading of the network to protect forests through the liberalisation of forest land from the transmission network, the replacement, relocation and insulation of equipment. The submission of the technical lists of projects shall be pending in order to approve their funding through the Recovery Fund. With regard to the second question, the construction of the Ruff High Voltage Centre and the new underground transmission lines 400 KW, which will then allow the removal of any existing air transport lines of 150 KW, is included in the 10-year Greek Electricity Transmission System Development Plan drawn up annually by IPTO and approved by RAE. Therefore, as is the case for all the projects included in the 10-year development programme, the funding of all those projects is guaranteed as they fall within the regulated asset base of IPTO and are compensated in accordance with the existing provisions and regulations. In your third question regarding the removal of air transport lines 150 KW from the areas of the Municipalities of Aigaleo and Agia Barbara, this can be done, as you know, after the implementation of the modern closed type of high voltage Ruff. The construction of the Ruff Plan is included in the 10-year development programme with a view to completion in 2025. However, it is essential for the timescale to be adhered to in time to respond to the relevant bodies - municipalities, regions, bodies - and public utility networks in order to issue all necessary permits for both the ultra-high voltage centre and the new underground transmission lines. It is important to complete the individual operation by the Municipality of Aigaleo - because this is where the implementation of a town plan is concerned - which concerns the ownership of PPC and IPTOE, within which the construction of the Ruff Board is foreseen. It will enable the immediate start of licensing and construction procedures for the timely implementation of this important work for citizens and IPTO. I shall continue in my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would also like to address you. I'd like you to guarantee something. Mr. Tagaras is an excellent colleague. He never avoids filing documents. I'm sure he'll testify. However, since we had a previous incident with another colleague and had not submitted the documents to another timely question, make sure that the submission of the four requested documents, i.e. works contracts, is followed...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Undersecretary, you have said you'll testify to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u71	I'll testify it in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u72	Go on, Mr Arseni.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u73	The four documents required are the work contracts that have so far been concluded for the cable sub-projects in Agios Anargyros, Agia Varvara and Aegaleo, the list of sub-projects to be included in the Recovery Fund, the list with sources of funding, as well as the amounts per project. It is also the view of the Archaeological Agency for the Ruff, to know that everything we are discussing will be implemented. Mr Tagaras has indeed tried to answer to a certain extent the questions he has raised and I thank him very much. I'd like to insist a little. You have not said which grounding projects are part of the Recovery Fund, not the general category. We were in fact asking whether the subjugation to St. Barbara and Aigaleo has joined. We ask again, because we saw the Prime Minister announcing it once on March 29, second time the other day in western Athens at the meeting with the mayors, while we saw Mr. Amyras answering here in the House by name what the subordinations are and exempting the two municipalities, so something is happening here. Also, who have guaranteed funding? You referred to the implementation of the Ruff FD and then to the beginning of the substitutation. You're saying that implementation will take at least '25, so we want to figure out what the timetable for works in the Saints Anargyros is, so if you want to finish the 1925s, when will they have subordinated, when will the high-voltage pillars have left the homes of the people? Minister, you really have to go to St. Barbara in the square to see them, go to the neighborhoods near the square. It's not funny. It's not a political exaggeration to talk in here. It's shocking. It's worth seeing, and, if you see it, you'll be mobilized yourself. You can't imagine having homes, apartments and on top of them building the ultra-high-voltage pillars. I would ask you to reply in detail and in the next questions, so that the citizens know that the commitments which are being made will be implemented and when, in order not to talk in general terms, we will be able to know what is going to happen, so that the local society can also take its decisions on how to mobilise it, so that these projects of sub-institution can finally be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr Arsenis. Mr. Tagaras, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, while continuing on this issue from where I stopped, I will say that just to achieve this objective a memorandum of understanding was signed, at the initiative of the Ministry of the Environment in July 1920, between the PPC, IPTO, the Municipality of Aigaleo and RIS. The main role of the whole procedure regarding the Ruff is the Municipality of Aigaleo and the services that have undertaken the implementation of the individual operation and the payment of the related allowances to the beneficiaries, while for the construction of underground cable lines the Region of Attica and the Municipality of Agia Varvara, Aspropyrgos, Heidari and Aigaleo have a primary role in the construction of the underground cable lines. As far as the timescale is concerned, which you are quite right to ask, you have seen that there are interactions and that there are institutional bodies involved. In the responsibility of each of us - for the part that is of course related - is the speed. In any case of delay on the part of the Municipality of Aigaleo in examining the demands of IPTO and the actions necessary to implement the single implementation act, there will be delays in the implementation of the project. The question of the application of the act is exclusively of the municipality. We, where aid is requested for the acceleration of the municipality and depends and it is our responsibility to offer it immediately. With regard to the subordination of sections of the existing air transport lines 150 KW, Ruf - Aliveri and Chalcedona-Aliveri, the construction of the underground lines, according to the 10-year programme, has been defined in the second half of 2024. Then the decommissioning of the respective air sections will be followed. It goes without saying that in this case compliance with the timeframe depends on the speed of response from all stakeholders. Question four: IPTO has already asked for opinions from the archaeological services. For this, I will submit to you the documents which are available and the opinions ahead of the launching of the proletarian process for the construction of the High Voltage Centre in Ruff. During the environmental licensing process, the archaeological services considered that they had no objection to the construction of the project and requested that the architectural study of the super-high voltage centre be submitted before the start of the work. As has been the case in a number of previous works of IPTO, in case of discovery of ancient findings it is permanently regular during the construction phase of the Ruff Ruff Board the IPTO cooperates with the Archaeological Service for the most appropriate, according to the law, to deal with the issue by applying commonly accepted solutions, leading to the rescue of possible findings. As far as questions five and six are concerned, the competitive procedures for awarding the construction of all the projects mentioned above to contractors will be initiated in accordance with the procedure for the licensing and settlement of the property regime - I mentioned before - in order to ensure that the minimum waiting time for contractors has been minimumd and to avoid any claims made. You know about delays and clauses. In your seventh question, in addition to the projects already mentioned in the ten-year programme, the submission of the 150 KW Kyti Koumundouros - St. Georgios steam power station in Keratsini is also included, with an implementation horizon of 2.6 km in 2025. In accordance with the timetable for the 10-year programme, the relevant studies will be started in 1921. Finally, I will say that I know and fully respect your remarks on the protection - and indeed in a residential area - of such loose ends and, unfortunately, there are many of them, the result of which we have experienced many specific natural disasters, which is why we must make use of all the resources from all the programmes. I referred to the Recovery Fund and also to the ten-year programme of IPTO. All these loose ends are definitely causing problems. We owe as much as we can - because these too need credit - to be able to meet such obligations and needs and to be sure that every possibility will be exhausted. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u76	Thank you too, Minister. And we go to the first with number 1036/10-9-2021, a top-level question for the first-round question of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Soltanas Eleftheriadou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Participation of PAE S.A. “Kavala 1965” in the Super League 2 and in the fifth under number 1050/13-9-2021, a topical question from the second cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, entitled “Participation of OLAF S.A.”. “Kavala 1965” in the Super League 2 championship, which refers to the same subject. They will be discussed at the same time, without affecting the rights of speakers in their speaking time, pursuant to the provision in paragraph 4 of Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Sultana Eleftheriadou has the floor for two minutes, and then we will give two minutes to Mr Kegeroglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on 19-6-2021, after the end of the championship, with Law 4809/2021 you made a huge change about football data: You abolished a whole category of Football League, the professional championship of the Second National Men, and for the first time all the teams, not only those who were left behind, had the right to go up to the second category. First of all, your legislation was positive. However, you have at the same time set strict economic conditions, an increase in the share capital of 30,000 to 350,000, a guarantee of 150,000 and a short deadline - less than a month - to 15-7-2021 so that the groups that wanted to move forward can settle these conditions. Of course, the deadline was not enough. You have extended up to 30-7-2021, but it has again been very small for any group at any time, let alone now that the groups have not had any revenue lately due to COVID, so that they can respond. At the same time you said that the celebrity paragraph 4 of Article 77A of Law 2725/1999 does not apply, as amended and applied, with the result of our group, my group, OLAF SA. Kavala - which would normally be made due to racing performance and not because of the possibility that your law, as it ended in second place, could not meet the deadlines you set. Of course, no provision of law under Law 4809/2021 shows that the special deadline of Law 2725/1999, which says that the teams can deposit the documents and transmit up to thirty days before the start of the championship and in any case Article 57 of Law 4809/2021 must not apply in the case of the AOC. Kavala, because, as I said, she acquired the right to advance because of its racing performance and not because of your bill. And, Minister, the unjust possibility of being downgraded - because the case is not over, it is in the courts - of the AACC. It's a bad thing not to be moved, but there's a big deal about the championship. You do not understand that, with this bill, what you brought in and its implementation, the required teams - thirty-six together according to your bill - cannot be assembled in order to become the championship. Of the thirty-six teams gathered thirty, according to my information. And yes, the Committee on Professional Sports is an independent authority, but the organization of the championship is yours and of the NCA and, of course, all the institutions - I will listen to your arguments - operate under the sport law that you have brought to the vote and you are responsible for its implementation. So I ask you: do you intend to issue the relevant circular, which will clarify that at least 30 days before the opening of the championship, as provided for in the last subparagraph of paragraph 4 of Law 2725/1999? And if not, because of the inability to find the thirty-six teams required by the Super League 2 Championship notice, do you intend to move to legislation in order to give the opportunity to teams that have managed to carry out racing - I repeat: racing - not because of your bill, to resubmit an application for participation in the newly created category? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Eleftheriadou. The same is mentioned in the timely question by Mr Kegeroglou, MP of Heraklion of the Change Movement, or by number 1050/13-9-2021. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. The question, of course, concerns the Cavalas Sports Group, a historic group. It is not intended to motivate the Minister to intervene in the work of independent authorities, in particular the independent authority in charge of the matter, but it is intended to see, in accordance with the legislation in force, what the Cavalas Sports Club won in the field, not to lose them, due to bureaucracy or potential ambiguities of the law, which has happened with the completion of the championship to have its entry into force. I'm referring to Law 4809. This is for our part the point of intervention and we really want to see how the team that won the second place in the Football League in the 2020-2021 season and actually acquired the right to move forward is justified, of course in the current legislation. Mr L.4809 states in Article 4(4), inter alia, that, in the case of a public sports company or part of a paid athlete, if there is a part of the paid athletes who have received a lower category, the application for the certificate referred to in paragraph 3, which is also the appeal, shall be made at least thirty days before the commencement of official quizing obligations. In our view, therefore, the law is provided for, but in any case ambiguity we should see the true meaning of the law, whether through clarification or in any other way. That is why the Committee on Professional Sport, in judging the request from the OLAF Sports Group, decided that the deadline should have expired on 15 July. It is a question of interpretation which we should see at the purely legal level and which is why we are asking for your position on the possibility of clarifying what is true of the law or whether there is any gap to be covered in the most practicable way. We would therefore like to know your intentions, Mr Secretary, for the specific problem that has been caused. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Mr Kegeroglu. The speech is given by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports Mr. Eleftherios Aeggeakis for six minutes. Mr. Ausgeus, because you have a tendency to escape, don't do this to me today, you're happy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u81	I'm happy, but I answer three colleagues, not two. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you have asked the same or similar questions about the Kavala PLO. So I will answer all three questions that have been raised. Mrs Adamopoulou cannot be here today the day before yesterday, and I noticed that she has tabled the same question, so I am replying to the questions she has put. Mr President, you will allow me to have some more time, since I will reply one day and of course I know that a number of friends from Kavala are attending the meeting, and they are anxious to hear truths, as they have heard very dear colleagues, first of all Mr Pascalides, a Member of the county, with whom I had a personal meeting two and three times on this subject, as well as Mr Lazarides, as well as my dear colleague at the Minister of National Defence Nikos Panayotopoulos. The restructuring of the categories of professional football is an important part of our sport reform, serving the basic principles, which are transparency, housekeeping, as well as worthyness. But let us remember a little what happened before Law 4809/2021. My predecessor, Mr Vassiliade, with an amendment to Law 4612/2019, had set the framework of professional charges in football. Specifically, he created three professional categories of two that existed: Super League 1, Super League 2 and Football League, where only teams of football anonymous companies participate. In fact, for equity, it was defined as follows: for the Super League 1 FDI, the equity capital was not allowed to be less than 500,000, for Super League 2 it was not allowed to be less than 100,000 and for Football League it was not allowed to be less than 30 000. As far as television rights are concerned, central management is provided for Super League 2 and Football League, contrary to what was the case at Super League 1. The results are well known to all of us just as much as they are. More problems have arisen than have been solved and too many injustices. Football League was provided for a share capital of just EUR 30 000, which did not favour the credibility of the participating groups. It was a restructuring completely state-run, mainly unprepared, as it would rely exclusively on the money from public television, and unrealistic, as the funds were too much for ERT's real economic forces, which appeared halfway through the first year of the new championships. It has further demonstrated the abundance of an extremely unprepared arrangement. The situation in professional football was tragic. And I'm not saying it, everyone involved with Greek football has said it in these accusations. They are known to all of us the results and, yes, we had to change them. So what did we do? At the end of August 2020, the NCA asked us to consider the abolition of Football League and the conduct of Super League 2 in two groups of thirty-four groups. It is therefore, in principle, acknowledging the failure of the existing structure. That's right. For our part, we have shown our willingness to resolve the issue together with everyone's responsibility - but everyone! - the competent bodies. Specifically, we have been asking for a week from the organizing authority - which is Super League 2 and not the Ministry of Sport, you are wrong, dear colleague - to take a seat. The lack of initiative and the inertia from the OSH and Super League 2-Football League led Football League teams to teleconferencing themselves, so arbitrarily, to decide symbolically to deposit their stamps. However, we have remained fully in place and have continued to move forward in the institutions. We were calling for the position of all the authorities before we started the consultation, especially to ensure the necessary time for it to be implemented. No, that is, surprise movements and gonatograms, provisions without time to prepare and ferment. What did we do? We set up a working group, at the end of the day, with a representative from the SSU, the Super League 2-Football League and officials of the State Secretary of Sports, which started its meetings from the beginning of October 2020 and with a lot of methodicity ended up in the contents of the law. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, we have made it quite clear: we have put all operators on the same table as equal interlocutors - I pray that they all have knowledge of what is decided and, above all, of what is being decided, but - keep that word - and responsibility for what is decided and implemented. The restructuring or merger was announced in good time in January. So there was time for everyone to look for investors and for the development of investment programmes, which all groups need to find themselves in a category extremely competitive like that of the new Super League 2. On 3 June, in view of the submission of the draft law, a teleconferencing conference was held with all, without any exception, and the thirty-fifths of the Super League 2 and Football League, in the presence of both Lingua Presidents, Mr Leucakou and Mr Boutsikari from the Super League 1. I would remind you - because you are probably missed - that twenty-nine representatives of the AACC told us good and congratulations - have recorded all of what I am saying to you - and only two APRCs, just two APRCs have been reserved. They didn't oppose, they were reserved. We have sought an institutional and substantial change, which is essential to our country's new economic and social conditions in the time of the crisis. Professional football is necessarily shrinking in order to make it sustainable, more qualitative and more competitive as an event, and that is why the Second National Category of Men Football League was abolished. With Law 4809/2021, we set two categories of professional, with effect from the 2021-2022 season. The two categories are the A1 National Category Men Super League 1 and the A2 National Category Men Super League 2. I would remind you that the criteria we have set for restructuring, in consultation with all those involved, are: firstly, equity. It streamlines the minimum share threshold of the MIPs participating in the MIP Championship of the A2 National Category Men. It must not be less than EUR 350,000 to ensure the sustainability and soundness of the teams participating in the relevant championship. Second, a guarantee letter for the A2 Soccer Championships of the Super League 2. The amount of the security letter shall be fixed at a minimum of EUR 150,000. And, thirdly, Greek footballers. It is stated that for the teams participating in the Super League 2 professional championship, at least half of the players declared on each match card throughout the championship must meet the conditions for participation in a Greek national team of any age category, in order to ensure the staffing of national teams by active and militant players. So we are actually increasing the credibility of the product and giving greater and stronger sustainability supplies to the groups. To sum up, the restructuring of professional categories with the merger of Super League 2 and Football League was necessary and shared acceptance due to the new economic and social conditions of our country, but also to create within the new championship conditions of credibility, sustainability, competitiveness and upgraded quality. I repeat that they have all agreed on this. The increase in the minimum limits of the share capital and the guarantee letter is intended to create a professional category in which financial interest groups will be exclusively involved, strengthening both the credibility of the Super League 1, Super League 2. Of course, I would like to point out to the UAE who will be involved in Super League 2 that there are of course still controls by the Committee on Professional Sports on the acquisition of shares, whether when it comes to establishing or increasing equity. Therefore, the authorisation procedure for acquirers of shares - Article 69 and Article 69A of Law 2725/1999, as applicable - also entails research at the next time in the statement of their ‘from the outset’, increasing transparency and reliability. In particular, for the OLAF, I will respond to my dentistry, since of course I am allowed by the Bureau to have a little more time, as I had in the protology, and I thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u82	Be well. An entire county is watching what to do! They love their team. Mrs. Eleftheriadou, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we know the law, you analyzed it to us, we heard it again. In any case, PAE A.O. Cavalry right now meets all the conditions you mention. It is a fictitious group, there is a possibility of increasing its share capital and an investor has also been found to deposit the guarantee letter. So, at the moment, this group's problem is not the preconditions you set with your new bill. The problem is the time limit which, in our view, has not been abolished, that is, the time limit laid down in Article 77a(4) of Law 2725/1999, that is to say, all the documentation 30 days before the start of the championship. This article does not state that any provision of Law 4809/2021 has been repealed. Neither that it has been abolished nor that there is a suspension of its validity for this particular period, in the current 2021-2022 season. If the legislator, or you, wanted to abolish this article, then you should explicitly anticipate it in the law. And in any case, Minister, you see that there is a formal - let us say - failure, which is largely due to the horrific, narrow, deadlines that you have set by your law. It is not easy, Minister, in the current situation, for a group with a share capital of EUR 30,000 to suddenly go to EUR 350,000, and even if it was made with the previous law, it would have a share capital of EUR 100,000. It is not easy, Minister, to find an investor in today's day, not just to invest in a team, but to make any investment. The institutions which control supporting documents must therefore be flexible, at least in the first application of the law. We are asking for nothing but the law. If you think that you have abolished the '99 Act' and the deadline laid down there, you should have said so explicitly. And, obviously, I want to think that was not your purpose, but instead your aim was to facilitate the participation of the groups and not to exclude them. Unfortunately, Kavala is one of the most wronged, because, as I said, she was retreated because of racing performance and not because of your bill. To say something else, something that's come up in the last few days. Kavala has filed a request for cancellation to the administrative court. The administrative court has sent you a letter to reply and you had a deadline of 16 September to reply to the appeals made by the court. You got an extension for September 24th. But Kavala will have to say if she'll fight the Third National. Is he going to lose, or are you going to create a subject in this case? Why did the Ministry ask for an extension from the court? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Eleftheriadou. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u85	Minister, we have no doubt about the interest of the Minister, Mr Panayotopoulos, and Mr Pascalides, but we must say that there is an agony throughout the county. And anguish is what the team won in the field, not to lose it, either because of bureaucracy, either because of ambiguity of the law or because of a distorted interpretation of the law. All three are possible. We have seen too many times, especially at transitional intervals, when there are no specific forecasts, there are ambiguities and issues of interpretation. So what does the team, which I see for my part, support, with the advisers whom I asked and consulted, say that it is true? The right to submit is one of a specific deadline law and provides for thirty days before the opening of the championship. The fact that the Committee on Professional Sport tells us that the team accepted the initial deadline and submitted the application, submitted the application for it to be obviously also in the short term, but bearing in mind that it also has the deadline for submitting and supplementing the dossier with the supporting documents. The deadline of 2 August which was set and which the Committee on Professional Sport maintains that it could not extend until mid-August, which was requested by the group, I think it is not a proper interpretation of the law, because the other provision, which is in force - one month before the start of the championship - had to be applied, and given that the championship starts at the beginning of October, I think that the deadline until the days we are discussing, that is to say, until the beginning of September, was a given one. The question is not about intervention in the work of the independent committee, but about the institutional framework, which is our competence, is the responsibility of the state, the government and the Parliament. It's not the first time there's been ambiguity of law. This is not the first time that there is a need to interpret the true concept of the law. Everything you have said, which is valid by law as preconditions, is respected and no one asks to be respected by specific or specific groups. No way. In fact, so far, virtually from the thirty-six groups required by the notice, only thirty of them have been involved and that is in relation to the criteria and conditions that you have said, but not because the deadline has not been given to fulfil the conditions, as the group we are discussing is entitled to. We would therefore like to ask, in the second instance, that there should be a procedure for the true interpretation of the law at issue in the present procedure and a deadline, so that the Committee on Professional Sports can facilitate and not give alpha or beta interpretation, of course, depending on what its lawyers will be, but that it is the law, the right, the right and the right, and what it will not overturn for this group - but for none - what it has achieved in the racing spaces due to the lack of a specific interpretation of the law. That's what we're asking. That's what we want. And I think the Ministry can seek and find a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr Kegeroglu. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u87	At this point I would say, Mr President, until the Minister takes the step, that we are particularly interested in Kavala, even though Heraklion, because half of our relatives are in Kavala.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u88	Because I have served in Kavala, I have to say that the Cretans very much love the Cavalian and vice versa. Now, of the thirty teams you've said, we'll see how many people they can handle. Of course, it's not the Minister's fault here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u89	I have to say, Mr President, that the Cretans love Kavala, whether they have or have no relatives, because we have many friends. Ladies and gentlemen, the right to participate in Super League 2 has all the teams that meet the criteria set out in Law 4809/21 and have participated in the championships of Super League 2 and Football League, plus the four groups, Olympics, PAOK, AEK, Panathinaikos of Super League 1. These are added to those from the 3rd National at Football League, except those who were demolished by Football League in the 3rd National. In particular, during the 2020-2021 season in Super League 2, twelve teams participated in Football League, twenty teams participated in Football League from the third National teams, four teams from the OAE and the Super League 1 team will participate in the new Super League championship 2. In total, then, thirty-six - it is the maximum number - groups, since they meet the conditions of the law and receive the certificate from the Professional Committee for Football, will have the right to participate in the restructured Super League for the 2021-2022 season. We clarify that Law 4809 does not set up a maximum or minimum number of teams to participate in the Super League 2. Until today, Monday, a certificate of participation in the Super League 2 by the Committee on Professional Sports provided only twenty-six OEMs from the thirty-two that would be fighting in the professional championships, since we did not proceed with restructuring and development practices with the criteria I have just mentioned - I repeat - all the stakeholders have accepted. And along with the four second teams of Super League 1 OEMs, we reach a total of about thirty teams that received a certificate of participation in the new Super League 2 championship. Six of the existing OIPs in previous professional categories did not obtain a certificate of participation. More specifically, PAE Panahiaikos, Rhodes, Jalysos, Santorini, Drama and Kavala and three other newly created ones, from Amateur III National, Panonios, Zakynthos and Herodotus. And I repeat here that the control stages have not been completed. I repeat, so that, if matters arise in the next few months, do not consider that we did not say so or that we had not informed everyone in advance. It remains in the coming weeks, in line with the current deadlines, to review whether the certificate of participation of all natural persons who acquired shares in the increase in equity or when the new AIF was set up. But let us look in particular at the case of the Kavala PEA. The PAE ‘Kavala 1965’, during the period 2020-2021, played in Football League. From this category, only groups who have been degraded lose their right to participate in the new, restructured Super League 2. So the Kavala PAE, whether or not it has taken a forwarding position - no matter what I repeat, because you are making a mistake - would in any case have the right to participate in the new Super League 2, but if it submitted its file to the Committee on Professional Sport and received the certificate of participation. Article 77A(4) of Law 2725/99 sets a date for the submission of the application to the Committee on Professional Sport on 15 July. This date is for existing public limited companies, as is the case with OLAF Kavala. In fact, since only for the capital increases had been extended until 31-8-2021, the only new outstandingity that the OEM Kavala had to regulate by 15 July was the submission of the guarantee letter. The OIP Kavala submitted its 15-7-2021 application for a certificate, but it was found to be incomplete after a few days. According to the Committee on Professional Sport, the application was not accompanied by any of the supporting documents mentioned, except five responsible statements on photocopying, of persons who did not come out because of the lack of other documents that were relevant to the OEM, says in detail the communication of the Committee on Professional Sport, which I present in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Consequently, it was given the ten-day extension until 2-8-2021 to cure the deficiencies, but still the OIP did not respond. In addition to this, the Committee on Professional Sport could not grant any further extension, i.e. the Law allowed it to do so. In your questions you have invoked the last subparagraph of Article 77(4) concerning the deadline for applying for a certificate to the ESA, at least 30 days before the start of official obligations. That interpretation is wrong, with all due respect. The law is very clear. This provision applies only to newly created AA or AAAs which are subject to the professional categories of amateur categories. In other words, it concerns the teams that in the 2020-2021 season were struggling in the 3rd National, that is, amateur category, and that were carried out in the Super League 2, i.e. a professional category. I would remind you that the Kavala PAE, as we all know, as already existing PAE, does not belong to this category of groups, as you misinterpret. Ladies and gentlemen, I personally like Kavala as a city and as a football team. I do know personally and the team's executives. I repeat that it is not personal, as some have tried to turn and describe. It's not a matter of sympathy or not. The implementation of the law must concern us all and be equal. And that's what we're doing. We're applying the law. However, I must add something more. My interest in Kavala has also discussed it with the very good ones, I repeat, colleagues, first with the Minister of National Defence and MP Kavala Nikos Panagiotopoulos, secondly with Glossos Lazaridis, also a good friend, and also with the good friend Yiannis Paschalidis, who is here and watching us. And we have discussed all these arguments and the facts in detail. We have said a lot more than that, not that it is something secret from you, even if only time allowed. We all remember the period when my predecessor, Mr Vassiliades, changed, I remind you, the charges and raised teams at the beam. We then condemned it as opposition. We thought it to be unacceptable. Well, we're not doing the same today. I shall also refer to the letter from Mayor Kavala, Mr Mouriadis, calling for an extension of the letter of guarantee. I am addressing the mayor and transferring him to understand his agony, but I am still waiting for the plan, studies and planning to upgrade the "Anthis Karagiannis" stage and to modernise the sports infrastructure of Kavala. One detail escapes you, dear colleague: The self-sufficient football is respected and has the responsibility of organising the championship. You're making a wrong interpretation, you've done that twice. We don't use a card to organize it if it's in Super League 2 or the Ministry, that is, the self-sufficient football. That's clear. However, tomorrow, Super League 2 meets, and it will be interesting to express its opinion, the opinion of the official body, which is responsible for organising this championship, taking into account the legal framework and the discussions that have been ahead of us, and the views that have been put forward here, in the temple of democracy, without, of course, implying that the opinion prevails over the law. But I repeat that it is worth listening to the opinion of the Super League 2 official body. Ladies and gentlemen, we respect your agony, which, of course, goes beyond the over-optimistic interest in the healthy image of Greek football. That is why we should work together, all together, in a framework of values for strengthening our country's football with transparency and, above all, with merit. However, as far as the judicial procedure is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, we are not in a position, nor of course have we any wish to intervene. I note with perseverance that the Ministry's political leadership has been identified with the independent Committee on Professional Sport, not by Mr Kegeroglu, who made this clear. Please respect the autonomous functioning of this institution, such as, of course, the independent functioning of Greek justice. We are prepared to discuss, listen to the views of directly, and those involved by organising the Greek football and this category. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Minister. The answers were clear. From there on, the OSCE will have to take care of it. Have a good follow-up to Mr. Ayggenakis and Mrs. Eleftheriadou. Mr. Kegeroglu remains in his place because he continues. The fourth under number 1035/10-9-2021 is a topical question for the second cycle of the Athens Parliamentary I, Mr. Angeliki Adamopoulou, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: “Super League 2 Championships: severe problems and unfair treatment of PAE Α.O. “Kavala 1965” and the fifth under number 1033/6-9-2021, a top-level question for the first cycle of the Parliamentary I of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Angelikos Adamopoulou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Serious complaints about the placement of containers by the Municipality of Athens as temporary school rooms of the 153nd and 154th Preschool Halls of Athens in Patisia”, are not discussed due to a blockade by the MPs. Nor is the sixth question dealt with under No 8403/682/2-8-2021 question and application for the submission of documents of the circle of petitions and questions by MP B2' West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The irrigation of individuals and the account to farmers". We move on to the next two questions to be discussed together by Mr Kegeroglou under number 1047 and by Mr Mamulakis under number 7067. We begin with our second question under number 1047/13-9-2021 of the second question by the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Questions on the northern road axis of Crete". Times are the same. You have two minutes to start, Mr Kegeroglou, and then Mr Mamulakis, since I read the subject of his question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, it is a success in your duties, since it is the first question you answer, at least to me. It is about the northern road and today's question. It is well known that my disagreement, my personal but also my remark, on the government's choice to follow the previous government's swamped manoeuvre of the work on the method of study and construction, and of course it did not provide for all the necessary resources. Of course the Recovery Fund came because of pandemic, and when the New Democracy was electionally saying that it had secured resources, obviously not, because today a solution is being sought for tolls, not for maintenance and road management, but for the financing of their construction, which overturns all that has been announced for a few minutes per kilometre, etc. Because we have also seen them on the other roads, that at the request of companies, tolls go up with legislation. Following government communications and information meetings, which have recently taken place, a number of questions have arisen, which are raised by both local societies and institutions, such as the region, the Regional Association of Municipalities and the Technical Chamber. Firstly, the lack of overall planning of the entire BOAK except for the option for the Kissamos - Chania section. There are no specific questions about the section of Agios Nikolaos - Sitia on the road system in Crete as a whole concerning the connection to the trans-European network. The sections of the BOAK with a new engraving have ultimately been reduced to a minimum. We have started with a great deal of interest to be the new development, and we end up with very few interventions. Provision for nodes, city bypasses. Connect the new airport to the south and not just. There are unclear timelines, a lack of studies for many departments and disagreements locally both in Rethymnon and in the track from Agios Nikolaos to Sitia on the subject of environmental study for the design and feasibility of this study. We are therefore asking, Minister, because it is precisely the Regional Union of Municipalities as well as the Regional Council and the Technical Chamber that express disagreements, concerns and questions: what is the overall development of the whole BOAK project? So what are the government's planning to implement in detail with a specific timetable for all the length from Kissamos to Sitia? What are your forecasts for parallel networks and the necessary connections to the trans-European network, airport and southern axis, nodes and city bypasses? And what you intend to do for the section specifically of Agios Nikolaos - Sitia and Agios Nikolaos - Ierapetra. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much, Mr Kegeroglu. Similarly, the first question will be discussed under number 7067/4-2021 of the circle of petitions and questions by SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Charalambos (Hari) Mamoulakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Questionally about the financing and cost of the tolls of the northern road axis of Crete (BOAK)". Mr. Mamulaki, good evening, good week. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, since May 29, 2021, following the announcement by Prime Minister of Chania on the architecture governing the new northern road axis of Crete, your withdrawal was essentially sealed and certified after two years of obstruction and arrogance in the original design, as the colleague said earlier, which the previous government had prepared. A certain architecture through hairbending and the conduct of three distinct competitions, which have been in complete progress for three years. In fact, we have had a two-year loss, and from what the Prime Minister has said, we also have a quasi-collapsing toll. The exact height of these is still unknown. ID heard something about six minutes per kilometre. But I'm actually going. So we see that you are obviously also familiar with the'molybdenum on the map' which you have mentioned a few times. You added a pencil, of course, to Saint Nikolaos - Sitia. Now, let's go to the cost, and that's the key point, Mr President. The final cost of BOAK in your assessment, Minister, exceeds EUR 2 billion. More specifically, there are EUR 290 million for the Hersonissos - Naples and EUR 145 million for Kissamos - Chania, EUR 1,32 billion for Chania - Heraklion, EUR 290 million for the Hersonissos - Naples and EUR 145 million for a project that had advanced a lot and matured for Naples - Agios Nikolaos. No reference to estimated costs for Agios Nikolaos - Sitia. I would stress that there is no reference. In terms of funding now, the resources. As far as we know 600m euros from the ESRB and 427m euros are concerned, this is at least the amount shown on the lists of the Greek democracy proposal for the recovery fund. So there is a reasonable and great financial gap, a big funding gap of 1.08 billion euros, 1.88 million euros. So this difference arises and, of course, without taking into account the unfamiliar cost of Agios Nikolaos - Sitia. So, including all that has been said, Minister, six distinct questions have unfortunately not been answered by the question we have asked a few months ago. What are the exact sources of funding for the BOAK and what are their exact levels? What is the allocation of EUR 427 million? We are referring to the recovery fund. In other words, what parts of the project are the aids to be included in the recovery fund for the BOAK? What is the allocation of EUR 600 million from the ESRB, a brave one in other funding, but is it unknown where this money will be provided for the BOAK sub-projects? How much do you calculate the cost of the BOAK of Agios Nikolaos - Sitia, that is to say, we have no technical knowledge of the budget I mean, but neither do we of course have economics. Of course, when is the section of the BOAK of Agios Nikolaos to be determined - Sitia? Because there is still nothing specific here. Finally, what is the planned architecture of this part of the competition of Agios Nikolaos - Sitia. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr. Mamulaki. The State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr. Georgios Karagiannis. Mr. Karayannis, good evening, and good week. Iron. You'll answer both at the same time. So you have six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you know, it is a special pleasure and honour today that I am in plenary, in fact answering my first parliamentary question in my new capacity as Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Transport, and in fact, on a subject which I happen to know very well, because as Secretary-General for Infrastructure we have dealt with these twenty-five months systematically and in a way. Since the first time the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has given the first and immediate priority to the implementation of this project. After all, as you rightly said, Mr Mamulaki, the announcements made in Crete last May were precisely that objective. And you know who that was? Let us show and understand all the Cretans that the government is now moving on with projects, not in words, to implement the largest motorway in Europe. Do you know what we received? We have received a small-to-existent study ripeness, with fragmentary interventions, scattered along the axis, without any consistency and without the required specifications of a modern motorway. We did not have - and I think that from this step the Minister for Infrastructure, Kostas Karamanlis, has mentioned this many times - sufficient geotechnical data. And because from what I understand you're an engineer, you can understand what all of this matters, in order to have a safe conclusion about which projects can be implemented and in which area. It is no exaggeration to tell you that the project has been practically set up since the beginning. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis' mandate was for immediate dismantling and ripe work, and that is what we did. Through a very intensive and systematic work, from dozens of engineers, as well as other scientists, we have unified the project from Kissamos to Sitia at technical level. We finalised the financial model. We commissioned over sixteen studies. We upgraded forecasts for road speed limits. We have included the improvement of the existing bypasses of the major cities in the project, and we have auctioned for the whole time, you see all the Cretans, projects to tackle the critical phenomena, a budget of more than 30 million. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have done more than has ever been done for Crete. We completed the studies and submitted the environmental impact studies to the Ministry of Environment and Energy for approval both for the large section of Chania - Heraklion and for the part of the public-private partnership, the Hersonissos - Naples - for which we are as you all know in the second phase of the competition and we hope that by the end of the year we will have a temporary contractor. But we don't stop here. We are preparing our next steps. The environmental studies of major cities bypasses will be followed, the completion of the studies for the Naples-Saint Nikolaos section to be auctioned by the end of the year as a public task, while for the Kissamos- Chania section, studies have already been commissioned and completed in order to enter as an option in the concession contract. We are even studying the Souda-Airport department, while we can tell you very proudly that the project program we have in Crete is currently developing beyond the right. We are dealing with years of issues that have remained unsolved, such as the Tauroni dam in Chania, which we will implement. Over the past few days, we informed the district manager and the district manager of our plan for the public-private partnership for the Tauronite dam, the Platy dam in Rethymnon, the Bramian dam in Lasithi. Castelli Airport is moving rapidly. We are negotiating and carrying out road safety projects in the existing BOAK until the new project is built. You will give me at this point the opportunity to tell you some of the particular technical features of the new BOAK. The new BOAK will have thirty new single-sector tunnels about forty kilometers long, almost twenty-eight kilometers of new bridges, twenty-five new unequal nodes, as well as eighteen in the bypasses of Chania, Rethymno and Heraklion. On your questions, the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Kostas Karamanlis, replied in detail three months ago, but on our part, as a Ministry, we have no problem answering once and twice and three times as much as is necessary to make the best possible understanding of the issues you raise. You asked us what sources of funding are. But I think you mentioned it. The Recovery Fund and the ESRB have guaranteed a billion twenty-seven million. The Chania - Heraklion, Hersonissos, which will be implemented by a concession agreement, including the optional exercise in Chania - Kissamos, will be financed with two hundred million from the Recovery Fund and an additional six hundred million from the EIF's funds '21-'27. For the Hersonissos - Neapolitan section, promoted by a public-private contract, we have secured eighty million from the Recovery Fund, which is all the public's financial contribution. And for the Naples - Agios Nikolaos section, which is being promoted for implementation by a contract of classical public works, the total budget of 40 million will also be financed by the Recovery Fund. For the Recovery Fund, things are clear, since disbursements should be completed by the end of 2025. For all the rest, disbursement is made with the progress of the project, as is done in all concession contracts. So I continue with the cost and engraving of the section of Agios Nikolaos - Sitias, because I saw that both Members raised this issue. At the moment it is being done, the development of the studies, and at the moment the estimated cost, because we have no definitive cost at the moment, is more than three hundred million. For the same part, however, approved environmental conditions exist. The engraving has therefore been determined and finalised. For the Agios Nikolaos - Sitia section and the design of the competition, I would like to tell you that in 2022 we will seem to have final studies from the OAS so that within the same year we can proceed to the tender and move on to this. For all your other questions, you will allow me to answer his second question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u96	Thank you very much for keeping time. Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. We are all being watched and judged for the style and clarity of the answers. What do I see from the reply of the Minister? I note that first of all what the Cretans know is that sixty kilometers of motorway, which of course took place very late in Crete, were made until 2012, the last auction in 1912 and then in one way or another, the time was rocked and we do not have a section auction, although there are ready studies on sections that have even joined the new road without any change of engraving. Secondly, it is confirmed that there is nothing in the decisions taken subsequently for the section of Agios Nikolaos - Sitia and for Agios Nikolaos - Ierapetra. I didn't hear anything about St. Nikolaos - Ierapetra, nothing, but nothing. You know, it is a town in Ierapetra, which is on the trans-European network, and the BOAK must be connected to the trans-European network. Of course, Ierapetra is looking for a way to reach the new airport and you had to tell us something about the new airport section - Ierapetra through the southern axis. You should have said something. You didn't say anything. So you say to us, while the New Democracy as Opposition said it had guaranteed all the resources, it was all ready, that your main financial instrument is the Recovery Fund that emerged from the pandemic. Prophets are you that pandemic will come? Are you prophets? Where were the money anticipated when you were telling us that resources were secure? Where? These, then, who were secured plus the Recovery and Resilience Fund, should not have any financial gaps for the whole project. So what did you do? Because he came after the pandemic and said to suggest it to the Recovery Fund you removed those resources that you intended to put to the project. If there was no recovery fund, would the project not be done? We ask to understand exactly what your purpose is. First of all, the twelve projects announced by the Recovery Fund were not 427, I think. I hope that in the next period it will be launched. It is true that what you said is four years of disbursement of the Recovery Fund, so in front of that they must finance projects that are mature in order to avoid loss. But here comes the main question. I certainly did not agree with SYRIZA's system. I have charged you with saying that, while with the election with us, you have complained - not Mr Mamulaki because he is a new Member of Parliament, Mr Spirtzi - you have then followed the exact same method. Apart from the part that you put Kissamos - Chania you did the same thing, there is none. Where do you have a difference? Tolls? But Mr. Spirtzis also predicted tolls, but he said by closing the eye wickedly - which is not the case - that only tourists will pay, not the Cretans. You come and say they'll all pay. You say it directly, because that's what it is. The question is not whether there are tolls or not, is a false dilemma. The real question is how much money will put the public and what sources including the Recovery Fund and the NSRF, so that tolls only concern maintenance and management of the project. This must be done for Crete. Crete is an island, a closed road system. It is not meant to put tolls on project finance - it is not meant - for the maintenance of the project and its management. And I want you to make this clear to us, because it's very important. It is a violation of the constitution, which imposes on the islands the different treatment. If we were to know that we were to do it before the project, we would give it to private individuals to pay 15 euros from Heraklion to go to Rethymnon and do it. But it's not like that. It is an island of Crete and wants a different approach to this part. Thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Mamulaki, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. I'm going to start a little bit of the technical stuff, Minister, and I'm going to end up in the mathematics. Report a complete engraving. Really, what exactly are you talking about? In the engraving you asked of the Greek Technical Chamber of Greece of the Department of Eastern Crete, which is the state's institutional technical consultant to express opinions on the ICM, on the environmental impact study, without, however, making available all the necessary information? And I stress this because it is incomprehensible for the Ministry to request approval, positive or negative opinion on an ICM without providing - the Technical Chamber clearly highlights it - the necessary elements. In fact, I have here the report from the Technical Chamber of Greece, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes, Mr President, which states that the premeditation, drainage and drainage of water, an essential technical element for the valley bridges and for the tunnels and for the entire engraving, especially for the Heraklio - Chania road, you have not presented it. As I am also referring to the statement by the study company, which renounces its responsibilities for the accuracy of the backgrounds, which we know technically play a crucial role in the formulation and preparation of budgets. The study company therefore dismisses the accuracy of the backgrounds as well as references to other studies that have not been made available. I stress, Mr President, that I shall begin with the technical work, because these will also lead us to the economic aspect in which we shall end up. Is the part of the BOAK Chania - Heraklion not a single project? I guess so. I have listened very carefully to your remarks, probably you have referred to the financial aid per part of the project, per part essentially. I note, of course, with what I have heard that the funding gap is being strengthened, the big financial gap for the Chania - Heraklion part. And at this point I come and will assist in the words of my previous colleague, Mr Kegeroglou, because, with examples and not with theoretical approaches, I quote: Sicily, Sardinia, Corsica, Magorca, Minorca, Ibitha, Cyprus, seven island regions in the European Union did not demand that the citizens of these island regions submit tolls on their island, because there is a norm on islands, a very clear predicament in the Community which protects these island regions. Of course, for the maintenance arm it's not utopia. Obviously, it will require participation through partnerships to be maintained, because, as we know, everything that is manufactured and not maintained dies and sometimes kills. So obviously in this part we agree. But, in construction, can we, Minister, discuss when the country has the golden opportunity, have a Recovery Fund, even because of the pandemic crisis, and there are resources, not to give the construction arm, a front, an aid to Crete in this respect? In order not to abuse time, I will close with this: you are the government of blockades. You exclude the citizens of Crete by imposing tolls on the island itself. You exclude the citizens of Crete on another issue, which concerns the airport "Nikos KAZADZAKIS". You rule out the local society that owns the plot, the well-known "fileto", the "Greek" of Crete, through its subsidence to TIADED. So you are the government of blockades, and that is what the citizens of the island know. So it's your blockade time too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr Mamulaki. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u101	I had thought of answering a little differently, because I thought we would have a very sincere dialogue with elements and arguments, but I understand, ladies and gentlemen, that we are now in the process of inviting ourselves to provide funding and why we are going to do the work with studies, because we have been engraving in the work, because until now there has been no development and we have not known where it is going, because we have geotechnical studies, because we have sixteen studies, because we have a financial model and we have tolls. But we never lied to the Cretans. The Prime Minister of the country himself, like the Minister for Infrastructure, Costas Karamanlis, has said the truth from the outset and we are not going to change that. We have worked systematically, too systematically, so that in Crete very directly, we can make tenders. As you know, words are very easy. And the Cretans have been listening to words all these years. It's the first time they've seen engraving. If I may, Mr Mamulaki, tell you that the Department of the Environment has sent the region the engraving, it can be because it is also on the Internet to see the engraving and all the studies that have been done and can be made. And that is the logic, and when consultation takes place. That's what we say. But now you all have to see exactly what we did. So you cannot tell the Cretans that we would do a work without tolls, because that is not true. Like Mr Kegeroglu quite rightly, what he says: 'Were we not tolled for the Cretans and for the Cretans?' This is not happening in any country. Let me see it because I read your question very interestingly. You write that there are no tolls on any island. Let me tell you that Sicily has tolls on the motorways in Magorca there are tolls on motorways.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u102	For maintenance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u103	So I'd like to ask that we all be more careful. And we never hid reality as opposed to others. I will read to you here a letter of 11 April 2018. It is the service and I will submit it in the Minutes to see: "Expected toll receipts of 75 million. Financial assistance from the Greek State of 500 million’. These figures are provisional because the financial model is not finalised. Do you know what this paper says? That you didn't have a financial model, you didn't have any studies, you didn't have drawings and you had tolls. Still, you went and said we wouldn't have tolls. This paper I will present to you to see, read it and with great pleasure come to the Ministry of Infrastructure along with Kostas Karamanlis to show you all the necessary information and work that has been done these twenty-four months. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport Mr Georgios Karagiannis submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] We believe it and the Prime Minister of the country, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, as much as Costas Karamanlis, believes that public works should not be a field of confrontation. You may have different approaches. Let's talk about them. But on some issues, let me tell you that there is evidence and evidence that is undeniable. We cannot question them right now. Mr Kegeroglu, I have seen that you have asked me a few more questions and I would like to answer exactly what the timetables are for all of this. I think in my first speech I told you some of the timelines. For Chania - Heraklion we expect within 2022 to have a temporary contractor. For the Hersonissos - Neapolitan the estimate is that by the end of the year we will make a race, so that there is a temporary contractor. With regard to the parallel road network you mentioned, you know very well that this is the responsibility of the region. Nevertheless, all the studies, the pre-study road constructions that have been submitted for both Chania and Heraklion and the Hersonissos - Naples ensure fully through the unequal nodes planned for the connection of the BOAK to the existing road network of Crete. So we've already predicted it, and we're moving on. Now you mentioned Castelli at some point. For Kastelli it is ensured that both the northern road axis and the southern axis are connected. That's why we exist. Now for tolls, we don't have to say much more. The tolls that Cretans will pay are the tolls that all Greek citizens pay, the 0.063 per kilometre. And, indeed, I have to tell you that there will be electronic and proportional tolls in Crete. Now for the funding gap I think that there is no need for a debate. When we do work on a concession contract, there are also tolls and there is also funding gap and, in fact, on DIGICOM, as you have done during your own administrations, you send the information on the funding gap and the European Union answers exactly what it should be, since it will be an offer anyway. That is what I wanted to say, honourable Members. I'm at your disposal for anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, too. Have a good time to all three. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce that the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs is tabling its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'The Legal Council of the State (NCCC) and the situation of its officials and employees'. Let us say that the following questions are not discussed in consultation: The fifth, number 3423/21-7-2021, reference to the circle of petitions by the Member of the Heraklion Movement, Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Reviewing the exclusion of Xanthopoulou laboratories from the responsibility of operating hybrid imaging systems' and the fourth, number 8108-19-7-2021 question of the SYRIZ MP's cycle of references - Progressive Alliance of Theophilos Xanthoulou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Continued degradation and repression of the Drama hospital in medical and nursing staff - Government reluctance to strengthen it - Appointing cleanliness to contractors - Awarding and repealing units and clinics of the hospital'. Here is the fourth question by number 1038/10-9-2021, the first question by the Deputy of Serres of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Boubas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Reactions and inconvenience to the creation of a granite quarry in Achladochori Serres". Mr. Booba, good evening, and good week. You have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u105	Good evening, Mr. President. Good evening, Minister. It is a matter of very high national importance and it is about the mother land, it is about the environment, it is about the next generations, it is about the future of the Lailia forest, Minister. Because I will also invoke journalistic status, it is a matter that comes from the past, but it is what we often say that the future is the past coming from another door. This is a forest of truly high natural beauty. It has five hundred and fifteen species of different plants. It has a wild lavender, and if you see lavender in Europe, but if you hear businessman, the former mayor of Amphipolis, who grows it, has great prospects. It is what we often tell the Greek Solution that we need to give weight to the healing herbs and plants. But what now? A protected 'NATURA' area is currently being violated here. But unfortunately, Mr. 4685-2020 gives us the opportunity to "strong through the engagement" to enter NATURA areas. This issue has come since 1991. We are talking about ninety thousand nine hundred and thirty-five square meters where mining will be eight thousand nine thousand cubic metres of which thousands of cubic metres contain granite value - as estimated - three million euros. This is why the specific operator of the project comes up all the time and insists on it. Already if you look at the evidence, unfortunately - and we have to talk about it, but should we not scare the world, but where we arrived? - Serres Prefecture, Drama Prefecture, Kilkis, Grevena have very high and high cancer rates, - carcinogens well keep - by many factors. You want Chernobyl? Do you want the Kozloduy that is a big wound and should come as a topic in the House? Do you want pesticides, chemicals from Bulgaria, but also the domestic ones? Do you want the uranium that exists in the region of Lailia - and even there the IGM has identified this place with a map red - and we have also taken it side by side with a modern HYTA? And here comes the granite, radioactive rock. Geologists what do they say? Granite and uranium are sleeping giants. Don't bother them, you'll have a painful impact. And we're talking about granite, Minister. I say this because - it is not up to you - you must press beyond the Minister and as a journalist. You did a very nice show "Mead Greece". The inhabitants of Achladochori, Karydochori, Kapinofytos, Sidirokastro and Serres will tell you that we are staying Greece, we are staying Serres, we live in the forest of Lailia and in order for our children to stay primarily in the place we should not do the family in this particular area, which is also "NATURA". Does it have rare bird species, has foxes, wolves, does it have brown bears, has a vintage, golden eagle and will we make it damari when it is located three hundred meters from the border of the Lilia forest, two kilometers from the Lailia ski centre, near the Sfangon region, which is officially designated as a natural beauty area? So we're scratching, we're looking for it, I'll tell you. The damage will be incalculable. We are talking about forests of paramount importance. This forest does not belong to you, nor to the government, nor to us, to anyone. It belongs to the earth and to the next generations. They are being created in the first place and they need to be created in the first place. Unfortunately, there is only an advisory and advisory nature for local government. But if you see what a friend Vassilis Tsavlidis, the President in Ahladochori and the residents, we should listen to them if we want to have self-government and not heterodical. They love their place. It's a part of their lives. And because this has been coming since 1991, the body has been doing its job, and we must protect Lailia's mother land and forest, Minister. Some time ago the Minister of Transport, who is also Seraeus, was given 1.5m euros for the Lailia ski resort. We can't have both. Either thamari or ecotourism and ski resort we'll have. Both don't make the pie ignorant and the dog full. It's a crime, Minister, what you want to do in Lailia. It's a crime! Listen to the inhabitants, hear to the land, hear to the forest itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, too. He has the floor for the Secretary of State for Environment and Energy George Amyras to answer. Mr. Amyras, good evening. You're sensitive to these issues. We're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening to you and all colleagues. Dear Mr Bouba, of course I understand your concern and the inhabitants of the wider region not only Achladochori for the creation of or not - because no decision has yet been made - a granite quarry in the Hersso area. First of all, you will allow me to clarify something. You are right to say that in the mother land and in the future it belongs to our ecosystems. Neither to me nor to you nor to anyone else, but to the future, to the next generations. So it's not up to me - and I wouldn't do it - to decide for myself, like you, anyone else whether or not an activity in any part of Greece needs to be spaced. Those who decide are a set of European and national laws which must compensate for two major issues: on the one hand, the creation of employment, economic development and, on the other hand, the protection, safeguarding and enhancement of our natural environment. So there are different steps until we reach that decision that opens the way or not to any investment. We, of course, as a government have clearly shown that this balance which I have just mentioned to you has been fully taken into account. On the one hand there is a pro-investment climate, you see it. In the last two years we have indeed taken too many obstacles from people who want to attempt, but in compliance with rules, laws and measures which the European Union has defined and also national legislation which, Mr President, on many of the environmental issues, is far more advanced and more stringent than European Union law. So here we have a pro-investment climate that we want and of course we cultivate with rules - as I have said to you - and on the other hand, we need to protect these wonderful landscapes, this great value of the Greek land that is what we see and experience. So let us see what happens in this particular case. Initiation of the authorisation procedure after several intermediate steps due to size falls under category A2, i.e. the environmental licensing of this granite quarry falls under the responsibility of the Environment Directorate of the Decentralised Administration of Macedonia - Thrace. The work today is in the process of consulting and collecting opinions. I will say in my dentistry who have been consulted so far by the institutionalised bodies and what they have said. The Greek state must also listen to and give great weight to the opinion of local communities as expressed through the municipal councils, because, for example, here we have a negative decision of the municipal council - as, of course, other actors and, of course, listen to the scientists. They will tell us, they will show us the image of other institutionalised bodies taking decisions. I have to say something you mentioned about the NATURA region. Yes, of course, is it in the NATURA area, but a priori? It is not forbidden to operate certain uses within the NATURA regions. That's well known. When we go for a walk to Sounio, we go through the road. The road has been built in an NATURA area. So the issue you are addressing is about those in the area that are protected extra, and that is where a specific ecological assessment is needed. If the competent authorities consider that it should not be authorised even if it has received the environmental study because of the study of the specific assessment - if they have doubts - the project is rejected. I'll answer my dentistry about where we are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Mr. Boobas has the floor for three minutes for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much. Greater science, I stand by it belongs to nature. Except for a journalist, you're legal. You know the windows. There is no confidence in the relevant agencies and the praisers, because that is what the past shows. There have also been sins in Romania in Baja Mare and elsewhere there have been quarries in Europe. It's going to be a dark place. What does the bibliography say, my Minister? This restoration - what do the English call it? - it is difficult to achieve it as impossible. I remember my colleague Anna Luis who has been running this since the beginning of the 1990s. And I did TV shows and people would come and say the restoration was done under very special conditions. It is very difficult to make this restoration and correction of the environment, because this is like a fire that doesn't stop or if you want it to be a cancer that we make in the environment and it has metastases. People don't complain because that's how he smoked them. They feel it, the environment speaks to them because it is also a waterproof horizon, Crusovite winter, where the area is irrigated and watered. Another parameter goes against the Sfangon under the rock of Katanga that is the area, because those who ruled and described it "NATURA" this was after many research and studies. They say, then, experts and we can easily find it through their scientific work: in order to make the restoration, it must be done with endemic plants that are consistent with the environment, see what erosion has the environment, change of geological composition of the environment, and these plants must be native. The point is, however, after the alteration of the landscape - are scientists concerned - will the rest of the region accept these endemic genius plants - the experts say - as the composition of the soil will have changed? If you see in Italy, there is a program called Mezzogiorno. Because after the fires it's not just the forest. There are geological phenomena from the fires, where different ingredients are created in the soil and there can be no sustainable development. You know it, Minister. You've made a lot of show. You've seen beautiful landscapes. Now listen. So, what about the furnells, with some wires coming in, with some explosions going on? In fact, the decibels have fallen too. They consider the 40 decibel limit, which is the function of ecological movements and residents - and rightly so - to be the limit of a household refrigerator. Why are the decibels throwing against the hearing of the man? Aren't we going to have strong decibels with the furnells, the explosions and all these lorries in the woods? They'll be done. So the whole balance of the wider region will be disturbed. There is also health tourism near the wider watercourse and we do not know the consequences. Let's go to the experts. What's going on now? I've said it because I've served in the second degree of self-government. What cannot pass through the hereditary region - it is not a matter now, is structured so Kalikaratis - goes to decentralised. In other words, if a matter of the highest importance cannot be passed by a majority, even if it does not want it, or if the regulator wants it, it freezes, and if there is no decision in three to four months, it goes to decentralised. We do it differently, that is, the decentralized trick. Decentralized is in a situation that it says cannot give its opinion, because it will be restored with self-ingenious endemic plants of the environment. So they don’t match what the study says in it. I'm taking it more than that. The literature shows that in areas where the geological, environmental, ecological and ecological nature of the area has been altered, the damage is irreparable. So I will sacrifice an area and you will come - not personally and you as Minister have your responsibility from the sensitive, neuro-algal position that you have - confronted with five villages and a holcorn Prefecture of Serres, the birthplace of the founder of the ideological parade? Is this the future of the Serres Prefecture with the river Kerkin's watershed with the Ramsar Treaty, with the NATURA, which we are violating? We did No.4685, and we reacted because that is how you enter NATURA regions. So we will develop ecotourism, walking paths, Lailia skiing, the gorge of Angitis, the caves of Alistrati, Tymvos Kastas in Amphipolis, the old Christian Amphipolis? Listen, Minister, this post is a break in our lives. We're coming and we're leaving. What the sovereign Greek people say by vote. Because we must be not representatives but representatives of this people. It makes a difference. If you return to journalism and go back to the area for the immortality, to show it and say, "We live in Greece, we live Serres, we live in Lailia", what will you show, Minister, on your show? Damari? Will you show the tomato so that we can get a radioactive granite worth three million euros against an area not counted with money? That is why I say: do not play with fire, do not play with our home, do not fall with the planet, do not deprive our children of it, no matter what the service of forests and forest protection in the decentralised region tells us. Look at it with sensitivity. I'm not talking to you personally. You're a journalist, you're a lawman, you're sensitive. You did good shows. Transfer it to the others there, the mentors, to change this situation, because in 1997 with an FEK 275, on 7 April the late Phillips Petsalnikos as Minister of Macedonia - Thrace had described it as a region of the highest natural beauty.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u110	And hang up with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u111	I shall conclude, Mr President. Don't neglect that. Petzalnikos knew something, the ministers knew something. And it is not possible for a businessman since 1991, in 1997, in 1998, to bring it all to his attention in 2007. Tell him, Minister, that I ask above all for the next generations and the mother land of the Serres, which we have come from there, and that is where we will return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr. Buba. Mr. Amyras, you have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Bouba, first of all I have a little clarification: Law 4014/2011 is the law that determines the locations of such activities in particular. I'm just telling you, why you referred to Law 4685. But, Mr Bubas, I agree with you too much of what you have said about the way in which we should approach issues in the whole and in the long term. And quite clearly, we are all part of politics. That's all he was missing. Anyone who has seen it differently in politics, I am not at all sure that he is doing it for politics. In politics you have to get in and out, do your job and come back and say that "something I have done, something I have left, something I have achieved in synergy, in help, in cooperation with the local communities and colleagues of all of Parliament's wings". Now let's go see in particular about the license. If he gets permission. We'll see. An Environmental Effects Study has been submitted for this activity of granite quarry operation in the municipal community of Ahladochori, the Municipality of Sinti, in the area of Hersos, as we said. Mr. Ioannis Germenides. This activity falls within the boundaries of the zone - not to tell you the code "NATURA", it is not so important - in the mountains of Brondus, in Lailia the wonderful Caves of the Warm Waters and Falls. That is precisely because this is an extremely important landscape for both habitats and ecosystems and forestry systems, a special ecological evaluation issue needs to be presented. This is Mr.4014/2011 I told you. Then there are other steps. But let's go see the opinions, because opinions play a very important role, Mr President. The study I told you doesn't have a special ecological assessment, because it hasn't been done yet. The study has been submitted for consultation and opinions and most of the services to which the study issue has been sent have unfortunately not responded. There is a bad public administration, which is squared, takes over time and creates gaps in what must be done, so that there is legal certainty, that everyone knows, whether he is an investor or a resident, what the decision is and how it will be placed on it. First of all, let us see what the Region of Central Macedonia gave its opinion and, in particular, the Committee on the Development of Innovation and the Rural Economy. On August 30th, he gave a negative opinion. The opinion is negative. It has already been posted to 'DENMARK'. Let's go down. The Kirkin Lake Management Agency has done a major job and now with the strengthening of all former management bodies of protected areas under the umbrella, under the cover of the Organisation for the Natural Environment and Climate Change, it will have to do even more. In fact, I am referring a little backwards, Mr President: with the ability to raise resources, of course, to be financed by our Ministry's PPP and to receive scientific programmes. That's very important. It matters. The Corkine Lake Management Agency expressed a negative assessment - opinion. We're keeping that, too. That's important. Finally, the Senate Municipal Council unanimously...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u114	And Iron-Castro, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u115	And an iron-castro. I imagine, with unanimous resolutions - it doesn't matter so much - they gave a negative opinion. These days the Ministry of the Environment, and in particular the Department of Natural Environment and Biodiversity Management, will examine the studies and within the time limits of the law it will deliver an opinion. This, in my opinion, is of major importance because they have the experience and in any case know that those in a scientific way and not in a simple and shallow way to assess the depth of the time you have mentioned, and what impact it will have, whether or not the effects can be mitigated in an ecosystem by an anthropogenic activity. So, as I said, and as you can see, ladies and gentlemen, the licensing procedure goes through several channels. If someone stays behind, if someone forgets their role, there are others that will be enough to know how each scientific body, each institution, is placed. From there on, the final decisions will see that it will be such as I imagine we will all agree under European and national law that the necessary and necessary to maintain what you have said, the natural ecosystems, the goodwill of the mother of land as you have rightly said. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. I wish, as a Seraios I said this and as a Greek, because many times the “underneath” do the great damage and every minister is exposed. Thank you both very much. Let's go to the next six months with number 1039/13-9-2021, a topical question for the second cycle of MP II Western Athens of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Panzakian term and Aegialia: Wind generators in protected areas". Mr Arseni, again good evening. You have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I will address you, Mr President. The last debate we had with Mr Amyras was again a question and a request for documents to be lodged which were converted into a timely and for the first time in Parliament's history that the two documents were not delivered as due by the Minister. It is the file on the technical proposal and the financial offer of ELLACTOR for the project that the West Attica OED and also the Interministerial PPP documents, which met on 5 November 2020 and decided to incorporate two waste management projects in the Attica region such as public-private partnerships. These documents were due by Mr Amyras to bring them to the House and he never brought them. This is the first time in parliamentary times and I would also like your recommendation to the Minister to deliver the documents.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u118	Minister, do you have the documents today with you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u119	I don't have them, but tomorrow, I'll testify to the services.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u120	That's enough. To our question now. The area of Panachikos Mount and Erymanthos on the basis of the Greek Ornithological has a registered nest of rare gold eagles and on the basis of exactly the environmental organizations is one of the most vague cases of irrational placement of winds within special protection zones. We already have a huge wind farm. So far in Panahikos, we had the largest wind farm in Greece, but only recently, you want to double the wind turbines in the area over sixty more wind turbines in double-jobed areas of NATURA. Let me remind you of Mr Amyras' statements that since 2015 and six years ago, he has been talking about the PPAs, he has tabled parliamentary questions and tabled parliamentary proposals to the committees that participated. The PDP is the road-free area. Minister, you have said very positively and that we do not need to suggest it to you, you are studying it to promote it. It is this area that is an area of PDP, to an extent of enormous, almost eighteen square kilometres, and yet with these production authorisations in wind, there will be nothing left of this protected area in the rest of the region. There are also four of these wind turbines located above Leonio, one of the few mountain settlements in Greece that are so alive. We have a settlement of farmers - beekeepers with twenty children who go to primary school, produce fifteen thousand tonnes of organic goat milk, and there they will open up with these permits forty-five kilometres of new roads in forests and grassland. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] And I'm closing. It is precisely because the European Commission is clear when we were condemned by the European Court of Justice for the NATURA areas, we were practically banned from engaging in activities in protected areas before the management plans were made. A new sentence with a reasoned opinion is pending for wind licenses in NATURA. How does the Greek Government come after this condemnation of the European Commission and place activities on NATURA such large scale and impact? It's a reasonable question, I think, for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u121	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. In my dentistry, I would like to tell you that there is no imminent complaint as mentioned in your question from the European Commission against Greece about the proper assessment. But I'm going to answer that in my denology. Well, first of all, let me make it clear that what you are saying in your timely question that there are production assurances from RAE for some areas in double-engineered areas of the NATURA network, I really don't understand what you're saying. There is no dual integration of a NATURA region. It happens once. It can't be twice. So I don't get it. It may be a wrong wording. Now we're going to the wind parks for the Panahikos mountain and here I say it again and we've said it many times that the producer's certificate from the Energy Regulatory Authority is something completely different than actually doing a project. It doesn't mean that he got a producer's certificate from the RAE that he'll be able to reach the end. It does not mean, too, that its environmental licensing will be approved. These are clear things. In addition, only a very small proportion of RAE’s production licences in NATURA areas have been proved to result in wind park installation projects. Furthermore, it should be noted that RAE has never recently granted a new producer certificate in the wider Panachian region. I'm surprised you're saying that. Immediately we contacted the RAE and in its elements also via the Internet one can find, there is no such new producer certificate. As we also immediately did research into the archives of the General Secretariat of Spatial Planning and Urban Environment and it emerged that no environmental study has been carried out at this point in time on the installation of wind stations in the Panahean region and in Ayyale. Let's go see what's going on today in the real picture. Within the NATURA network, we are always talking about the region - with official RAE data, eight producer licences have been granted for 184 MW, but in operation only 48 MW power projects have arrived and reached the end. In addition, four engine projects of 102 MW have GDP approval, while two 33 MW power projects are at the initial licensing stage. I don't know if you're talking about it after all. For the existing wind stations you speak on the Panachikos mountain these are known to be made from 2006 to 2009. In that case, it was not provided for in the legislation and no specific ecological assessment had been carried out and no appropriate assessment as provided for in Article 10 of Law 4014/2021 has been carried out. During the GDP renewal process, a specific ecological assessment study should be submitted to the services in order to ensure the ecological integrity of the region. This is the whole real picture. Always have in our definition that within the next few months the management plans for all protected areas of NATURA 2000 will be adopted in conjunction with the amendment of the legislation in force for appropriate assessment ensure the compatibility of new wind power plants projects with the ecological requirements of NATURA 2000. The rest in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u123	Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the dual inclusion of NATURA - it is very common - relates to the inclusion of an area for Ornithony and a region at the same time for flora. As far as we are concerned, of course, we are at the bench of the European Court of Justice. A reasoned opinion has already been sent to the Greek Government. Almost never do reasoned opinions avoid ending up in a complaint. It was a matter of two years before the European Court of Justice and it has been more than a year and a half since this two-year period, so it is considered to be finalized that the Greek Government will be brought to court. Of course, the various RES companies will not pay anything. The Greek taxpayer will pay again. Our condemnation recently, in December 2020, to place activities in NATURA without prior management study, namely the area of absolute protection and so on. It is expected that the amount of the fine will be unthinkable, very simply because Greece from there and beyond, instead of complying, will continue to do so. It is expected that the fine will initially be over half a billion euro and with a time increase depending on non-compliance. As for RAE, the RAE grants production permits in breach of the RES's spatial planning, a landfill that your government and you personally have said so many times that it is incomplete and you will bring in a more stringent one. Your predecessor, Mr. Economou, was committed to being ready by the end of 2021. Now it's for the end of 2022 and so on. However, the RAE, because you do not have exclusion zones, continues and is licensed in the exclusion zones which, in your opinion, are not strict enough to prevent. This non-rigid spatial framework forbids it, and RAE overlooks it, exclusion zones, distances from provincial routes, examples in Evia, will pass the cars under the ages of an accident, distances from settlements, from traditional settlements, from archaeological sites for the ability to carry, and every time we will discover a new violation. These violations are corroborated by the RAE. Here we ask you to stop these procedures very simply because we have a double "NATURA", we have an area without eighteen square kilometres streets, we have a live livestock settlement and they will basically open about fifty kilometers of road. It's huge the alteration in an area where ornithological says it has a threatened species very important. These are selfish reasons why if he passed the work from proper appreciation they would be rejected. We ask you to respect European legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u125	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I do not understand what is going to be a double 'NATURA'. Is there a triple and quadruple? What do you mean? Once an area can be integrated and enjoys, depending on the importance of ecological, environmental protection. I assume you're referring to this, to priority habitats. There is no double 'NATURA' nor is there any complaint as you say against the country in the European Court of Justice for the absence of a proper assessment. There's nothing you're talking about. Don't wish this would happen. It is not of interest first of all and you do not have to go out into Parliament and say that the country will definitely sit on the stool by the European Court of Justice on environmental issues. Is it possible in this House to say that it is surely a matter of time that we will be condemned? First of all, there is no complaint about proper consideration. There is a warning letter, the so-called ‘EU Pilot’, which is the opening of a procedure, which refers to the application in general of environmental legislation and not, in particular, to windscreens. So you have to take these into account what I'm telling you. There is no judgment of the European Court of Justice. Where did you see that conviction? Please testify to the Minutes. We must not say in Parliament that the country has been condemned or that the country will certainly be condemned, confusing the procedures laid down by the European Union, following them all, and that is why we have also given the response to the Commission's letter of warning which the Commission is studying and awaiting its response. I also say again that the specific spatial framework - to which you have referred and that it is strict - is very good and strict. You say that RAE cannot trample on these institutional ways of protecting the environment. He's not breaking anything. The RAE gives the producer certificate, but this does not mean that the project will be licensed and constructed. I said this before in reply to Mr Bouba saying that a very small percentage of the producer certificates given by the RAE ends up with the establishment, placement and authorisation of the project. With regard to what you might refer to here, the specific spatial planning, therefore, in Article 6(1), says something very important, that it is not excluded that wind facilities are located within, among other things, priority areas of the territory which have been included as sites of Community importance in the 'NOT 2000' network. Perhaps that is what you mean when you say "NATURA". Furthermore, in order to proceed with environmental authorisations to such projects in such areas, environmental authorisations should be carried out on the basis of the relevant provisions of the special presidential decrees and ministerial decisions. We all know that in NATURA areas where there are presidential decrees, where there are ministerial decisions, it is almost impossible to develop such activities. This is certain that they cannot be developed. But other activities, like those mentioned by you, Mr Bouba, before and constantly address Mr Bouba, because they have a relevance to the issues, common or 'NATURA', different or anthropogenic activities that some might want to see, but it can be decided by the public administration on the basis of its scientific view that they are inappropriate and rejected by the public authorities. So that's where we come from. I repeat that it is very important and I imagine that, from this time on, we will not have a debate in this House on such matters, on the protection of NATURA, because the specific environmental studies that will lead us to the presidential decrees that will lay down the terms of protection, of course, in the mid-term, very important part of the consultation process with scientific bodies, with local communities, with individual citizens. So something that this country had never acquired almost anything but fragmented, that is a single system of visas and protection and promotion of protected NATURA areas, which I am passing away to about one third of the country's territory, we will now know how to move, what the commitments are, what the bans, what the permitted limits and what the restrictions are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u127	Thank you very much. We are now continuing with the third under No 1043/13-9-2021 topical question by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "To ensure the jobs and the rights of workers at the hotels of the Cyprus Group in Kos". Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, one of the largest hotel groups on the island of Kos with five hotels, a thousand five hundred twenty-two rooms and four thousand conference seats announced - and it did - the non-function in 2021, in a zone for which according to SETE data it exceeded all expectations and in some areas it even exceeded 2019 numbers. In this period, then, seven hundred workers and a series of microenterprises, which depended on their activity, have stayed dry. In previous years the Cypriot group was gypsiest, Minister. It was based on state money and, of course, applied all the anti-corruption framework that governments have been creating over time. And in this context that you have now created bets to get rid of workers' rights. Workers, who, with their sweat, supported all the years in which they were working, are invited to pay for the development with bank loans and their redemption, while remaining unemployed, without income and insurance. The management of the group gives no answer, in substance, to what is going to happen with the workers by strengthening the insecurity and the deadlocks of workers who, for another year not only will not work but are at the front of the risk of permanent loss of work and income. You have a responsibility as government because while you were aware of the group combinations and the group's attitude to workers, unfortunately, with your attitude you are strengthening the group to implement these plans. We are therefore asking what measures you will take to ensure the jobs and the rights of workers. If you intend to take measures for the financial support of workers, if you are going to receive an emergency allowance for the entire period that was unincome and have created obligations, obviously, if the workers with the unemployment benefit are subsidised for as long as they are unemployed until we see what is going to happen with the hotels. How do you place on the workers' request to freeze their loans and public debts, but also on the request that there be no interruption of the current, water and telephone in every house of these workers?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u129	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u130	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Katsotis, throughout the health adventure we are going through, you know that very well - no matter how much you do not admit it publicly - that the government has supported the workers and especially those who are most affected, such as the workers in the tourism sector. More specifically, after reminding you that the government has allocated or plans to provide a total of more than EUR 41 billion to support the economy, let me briefly mention the policies recently adopted in the field of employment. The first measure is to grant special-purpose compensation to seasonal workers entitled to compulsory re-entry for May and June 2021. The second measure is the suspension of employment contracts for enterprises in the tourism sector and the granting of special-purpose allowances to workers whose employment contracts have been suspended. The third measure is the integration of tourism workers into the open programme of hundreds of thousands of young subsidized jobs. In fact, as has already been announced, this programme will be extended for another fifty thousand jobs. The fourth measure is the implementation of the cooperation support programme, which has already been extended until the end of the year. The aim of the programme is to provide support in the form of short-term financial assistance to private sector workers in order to maintain full-time jobs. In other words, the effort made by the government to the labour support section is systemic and continuous. With regard to the company for which you have been asking me, according to the relevant data of the Kos-Kalimnos Labour Relations Inspection Department of the SEA, we were informed that on 9 July 2021 a labour dispute was discussed at the request of the North Dodecanese Labour Group on the subject: firstly, the reintegration of all personnel for the period 2021; secondly, the refusal to consult the workers' trade unions. In this debate, the representative of the group announced the intention of the company not to operate for the 2021 season. On the question of the refusal of consultation, the employer claimed that he has repeatedly contacted the workers' centre of the northern Dodecanese complex. The employees on their part argued that the decision not to reopen the group's hotel units was related to the financial interests of the owners and requested their re-entry. Following this fruitless effort to solve the problem, the Hotel Officers and waiters' Association Kos submitted a request for reconciliation to the mediation and arbitration body. The compacter took up his duties at the beginning of August and after a statement of non-availability for a joint meeting within the month of August from the employer side, the two parties were invited to a joint meeting on 7 July 2021. However, the compactor, in order to be able to formulate more fully the reconciliation practice, asked both the workers and the employer to submit statements with their positions by 15 July 2021. That is exactly what we are at today, Mr Katsotis. In other words, the reconciliation process is in full progress. Thank you and I will come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u132	Minister, you didn't light us up. We are talking about a specific issue and not about the support programme for workers in tourism. That is why we have discussed this programme several times. He was far behind the needs of the workers. It did not cover those requests which had to ensure their income, to ensure their occupational and insurance rights. You are, of course, claiming that these programmes, the 'Cooperation' and the 'NASTOLI' programmes, have covered the needs of the workers, which is, of course, the opposite side. Cover the needs of the employers. He relieved them of the wages they would pay to workers, exempted them from employers' contributions. Basically, he guaranteed their profits and did not spend money to meet their needs and obligations towards the workers. Really, who closes and when does business? The employees and the Cypriots, as well as thousands of businesses who have experienced periods of great profitability in business, now also live the period of choices of business groups to close them, in order again to ensure their profits and make their choices more profitable. The Cypriot group, the tourist group as well as several other business groups in the profitable tourism sector have now for years the full support of the governments, Minister. Not only your own, but also SYRIZA, PASOK and all the governments that have gone through financing, privileges, tax exemptions, tax exemptions, facilitations to land use, in other words, changes in the use of land and abusive labour force that have guaranteed through your legislative framework, of course by stepping up exploitation: 16 forms of work, tens, collective agreements which are not implemented, etc. The seven hundred workers, perhaps equivalent to seven hundred families, were found without work with future uncertainties and rights in the air. Indeed, for the government, where does it begin and where does it stop employers' responsibility towards workers? Where does government responsibility start and stop with the workers? What position do you take on the situation led by the Groups' choices? What is the treatment of such cases as the Cypriot group by governments? Why, while the labour movement had conquered the succession of workers to the next employer - and this was done under their struggle, of course - it is not today restrictive, as you claim to be government? Today that the wealth produced is incomprehensible wages are lower. Any employment and insurance rights are considered to be an obstacle to capitalist development. Who defines what is realistic and what is not? What are the criteria and who sets them? We do not want, of course, and neither are we asking for the support of one or the other entrepreneurs, because each one and the other operates on the same conditions, the increasing exploitation of workers for greater profitability. What workers need is to secure jobs, because hotels, Minister, will continue to be hotels. They won't be hospitals. They're not going to be an industry. Therefore, their safeguards, the succession of workers to the new employer, must be guaranteed by the Government. You have responsibilities for any young employer to be forced to employ the same workers as all their rights. Ensuring compensation for workers is an obligation for the government. There are many years of work in the Cyprus group. What do you think? Should their allowances be lost? Is that what you say, Minister, when we say that their rights will be safeguarded? Will the workers be backed up? In what way? Will care be taken to support their income up to the allowance? You need to answer these seven hundred workers to meet the obligations that were born throughout the time they did not work. Will they be subsidized for as long as they are unemployed until the succession emerges, which will of course fight for it? What does the government say about the loans of these workers who cannot pay their instalments? Are they going to freeze by setting you're going to have to do? What does it say about public debts that cannot be paid? Will they make sure that these workers don't cut the current, the water, the communication? Minister, the workers want clean answers. Will you give them up? We say you won't give them up. Because to the Government of New Democracy, as in previous years, you are very handsome to the business groups and many gypsies, respectively, for the workers, very diligent to the employers, their forgiveness of any illegality and violation and ruthlessness to the workers, and that is what the anti-government laws and, in particular, your own law, the Hatzidakis Tsakloglu law, the New Democracy law on the work that breaks down the eighth and the rest. Workers have a way of organising their trade unions to participate actively, actively, to elect administrations incompatible, unreserved to employers' interests and choices, to organise the struggle for the modern needs of workers, to collide with the governments that serve the needs of employers, to break the lives of workers. This road requires that they turn their backs on the capital parties and with disgusting force to stand against state and employers' terrorism. Without the working gear he doesn't turn around, Minister, and he can even be without the bosses. That's what they have to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u133	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Katsotis, obviously, and our views on the way in which the economy operates and the role of the state in it do not coincide, but of course this is not a reason to break up dialogue, especially at parliamentary level. In our view, the Ministry of Labour cannot and should not dictate to employers whether they will keep their businesses open or closed. What he has to do is ensure that the principle of legality is respected, that continuous checks are carried out to ensure that workers' rights are not violated. But these rights, Mr Katsotis, cannot be personalised, depending on the history of each case. Compliance with legislation is stable and horizontal. The details of each case, of course, play a role, and this is why the relevant bodies are examined each time, whether they are administrative or judicial. That is exactly what this is about at the moment. Pending the reconciliation process carried out at the FIFG, let me remind you of the conditions for joining the Unemployment Fund for hotel staff, because that was a point to which you refer in your question too. Obviously the exceptional support measures that I mentioned in my prototype no longer apply, except in exceptional cases where the economic activity is restricted by a state mandate, since the economy has now opened up. The Act, therefore, provides that the regular unemployment benefit is granted to the persons in the tourism-food sector and to other seasonal workers, subject, inter alia, to the basic condition that they carry out a hundred working days in the unemployment insurance sector of the OAED in the last 12 months prior to the resolution of the employment relationship or, in the case of the first-time unemployed, to a minimum of two hundred working days. In addition, I would like to point out, with regard to staff employed in compulsory re-entry, that this worker's right is exercised on the obvious condition that the hotel unit is reopened, and indeed at certain rates of completeness. I would like to say, Mr Kattotis, that in all these cases concrete measures are provided for by the law. The determination of any employer's arbitrariness cannot be judged and must not be judged either by me or by you or by anyone else in this Chamber. There are the competent bodies, and that is exactly where the case is at present. There are, in other words, government departments responsible for this role, and as I mentioned at the beginning of my position, this procedure is still under way. However, I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Labour will monitor the procedures in this case until they are completed and we will do so with the same warmth that we are monitoring developments as a whole in the tourism sector, supporting workers and businesses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u135	Thank you. We continue with the third with No 1044/13-9-2021 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The immediate withdrawal of the avenger dismissal of a large-scale worker in the area of Platania Chania, Crete". Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the hotel "Santa Helena" in Platanias Chania, a maiden in speciality, is being persecuted, because she and seven other workers asked for a letter to the employer to recruit additional staff in order to share the job, to stop their decaying physical and psychological collapse, fainting, crying, despair. The factory lightened and rained with vengeful and extremely threatening style said to them "some will pay for what happened" and exploited all the legislative arsenal of your own governments, the New Democracy and the previous ones, which gives air to the sails, to trample any sense of dignity and basic labour rights. It is another incident of employers' immunity and terrorism in the major hotels and, more generally, in the workplace. They fired the worker. Why did they fire her? Because she did not agree to bend her head to work unreservedly for eleven to twelve hours a day, with unrelenting tension, with unpaid overtime, even though her four-month contract explicitly states "five days work a week for eight hours a day". She is being persecuted for claiming her remuneration on the basis of the local sectoral collective labour agreement. And not just that. The employer has designed several methods to trap her, that she has chosen to leave her job, and that is the ultimate aim of removing her, that is to dismiss her, that is to say, as she did. What did the employer do? He unilaterally modified the worker's work schedule without being in her knowledge, turning her days off into working days, to build the myth of unjust absences as a pretext for dismissal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u137	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u138	Let me conclude, Mr President. If the derogation is in half a minute, let me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u139	It's overtaken by a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u140	There is a history that the Minister should know, because he may not know.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u141	All right, say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u142	There was therefore an intervention by the Chania Labour Inspectorate that confirmed that this was not a voluntary departure from work, as the employer allegedly claims to be a prosecution. On 14 September the Court of First Instance of Chania, following an interim order lodged with the Monomele Court of First Instance of Chania, accepted the request for an interim order until such time as the insurance measures were dealt with in February 2022, with a return to work, maintaining the right to re-entry, paying it EUR 1,000 for compensation, and yet the employer again unforeseen continues the pogrom of prosecuting with breaking nerves and gave her further dismissal. We're talking about nerves, about strippings, about dismantling the factory. So we ask you, Minister, bearing in mind all these details, but also the great picture of this case: is it not your responsibility for the employer to comply with the decision of the court? Is it not your responsibility to permanently withdraw the unacceptable decision to dismiss the worker and to make full compensation for the days who have not worked under the responsibility of the employer? To take the state, you, the government, measures to prevent such incidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. You've got a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u144	Finally, to make the application of the local sectoral collective labour agreement compulsory: seven hours, five hours, thirty-five hours for all workers compulsory.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u145	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Synthraki, on the subject of your question, which concerns, as you write, the withdrawal of the dismissal of a hotel worker in Platanias Chania, I will reply to you according to the information that the Labour Inspectorate, which included in its reply, in addition to the results of the checks carried out at the hotel, and the latest development concerning the outcome of the legal development of the case, which you referred to in your position. In particular, the relevant Labour Relations Inspectorate of Chania has undertaken to resolve the labour dispute at the request of the worker with the qualification of the maid on 4 August 2021 by calling the employer to the APRC. The employee told the APRC that because she refused to work overtime at the hotel, her company had to take two days of compulsory leave. The worker also had informed the local labour inspectorate in the previous period that the company had systematically moved on to the modification of its declared days and, in fact, the day before without informing it in good time. The Labour Inspectorate of Chania, following a cross-check of the information he made through the "ERGANI" system, found that the company had made a three-time change to the worker's work programme, without being informed in a timely manner, as she mentioned in the APRC. Since the worker has not been employed in those days, her business has been notified by a judge hearing an extrajudicial procedure for her voluntary departure, which was filed with the information system ‘ERGAN’ on 4 August 2021. Following these events, the worker at the Labour Relations Inspection Department of Chania applied for a work dispute on August 4th, which took place on August 26th. In the process of labour disputes carried out by the AAS, it was established by examination of the data and recording of the views of both parties that: First, the employee was recruited in May 2021 by a full-time subordinated contract. According to its individual contract, the company followed the local collective labour contract for hotel workers in Chania, which in Article 4 regulates wages in the event of work on the sixth day of the week and on Sundays. This finding of the Labour Inspectorate as derived from the hotel staff contract also answers your question as to whether the local collective labour contract was implemented. Just to say, according to the APRC audit, the individual contract signed by the hotel staff member was under the branch contract. Evidently, as the Labour Inspectorate points out in its document, work on the sixth day does not abolish the provisions on five-day work. In fact, the evidence of payment provided by the company does not show the payment of the work on the sixth day for as long as the worker has been employed, as they have shown from the supplementary statements submitted to the information system ‘ERGAN’. According to the AAS, its non-payment was also the reason why the employee did not wish to work on the sixth day, as was stated in a letter served by the company. The second thing that was found by the audit of the OSH is that the undertaking provided the worker with only one out-of-court and, in fact, at the same time as its alleged voluntary departure, which, according to the Labour Inspectorate, strengthens the view that the undertaking did not exhaust all the possibilities of resolving the issue that had arisen, since the usual practice is before the voluntary withdrawal or termination of the contract, the performance of at least two out-of-courts calling on the employee or the employee to comply with any observations. Furthermore, the company never submitted to the information system a form E8, i.e. an announcement of employment and legal overtime by 10 September 2021. On the basis of the above, the Labour Relations Inspectorate of Chania expressed the view in the course of the labour dispute that there was no voluntary withdrawal of the worker. Mr Colleagues, an effort has been made from the APRC to return the worker to work, as she wished. But that was not accepted by the company. For these reasons, the Local Labour Inspectorate of Chania expressed the view that the procedure followed by the company was not the one and that is why the removal of the worker should be withdrawn. However, in any case, it is the civil courts in which the worker stated that he would bring an action and indeed appealed. With regard to the decision of the Court of First Instance of Chania - my time has passed - and the additional checks carried out by the AIA in this operation, I shall refer to my second language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u147	Thank you. Mr. Synatiakis, please your dentistry in time. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u148	Mr Minister, these facts you have told us, we know them. So what was the conclusion of the Labour Inspectorate? The point is, the worker was fired. It continues to be terrified, the employer does not take into account the court's decision. And from this point of view you must give an answer as a government. You cannot play the role of Pontius Pilate in the face of this employer's arbitrariness in literality. The employer makes use of the management right, the provisions on redundancies adopted by SYRIZA in April 2019 and the recent provision in your own law, the Hatzidakis - Tsakloglou Act of New Democracy which provides for the introduction of a right after the notice of dismissal, and until that time the employer must be entitled to claim not to come to work but of course to be paid. In other words, the employer must be able to fire with warning and workers must be expelled directly from the workplace, making it difficult even to fight their colleagues against redundancies. This is the reality of the work jungle that you have legislated. We are therefore talking about a specific dismissal, which is unfair, illegal, avenges and, through this way, the employer wants to keep workers with little rights, to be terrified, to work unscrupulously with a slashed head all the time. What we have said many times is confirmed, namely, what is happening to capitalism. That is, the capitalist is fed on the flesh of the worker and the worker. The proof is here, in front of us, whole-hearted. Everything that the Prime Minister has announced in the ID on support for work, is literally being crushed in the face of this reality, the naked one. It is nothing but support for the labour market. The redundancies are evidence of the modern working and insurance middle ages and of what it holds for old and new insured persons. This incident of the dismissal of the maid in Chania is the epitome of the implementation of your own policy, SYRIZA, the Change-PASOK movement that you all, in essence, put your hand in time to abolish the eighth hour, legislate the ten-hour work with a reduction in remuneration, increase overtime, effectively abolish the right to strike and trade union freedoms. We therefore call on you, Minister, to assume your responsibility as government and to tell us what you intend to do in order to stop employers' arbitrariness. We will submit to the Minutes and the application for interim measures made by the worker, as well as the resolutions of workers and unions in Chania, throughout Crete, which support the worker and condemn this immunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u149	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Synthraki, I must admit that I will not use mudly expressions, equivalent to yours, and I will try to stick to the objective elements of the case. With regard to the withdrawal of the dismissal brought by your question, as the SEA informed us after it had contacted the hotel clerk's lawyer on 15 September, the same appeal was made to the Monomele Court of Chania and a request for an interim order lodged by an application for interim measures against the company. The Court of First Instance in Chania ruled on 13 September 2021 and accepted it in part. In particular, the court requires the undertaking to temporarily accept the services offered by the hotel staff in accordance with the terms and duration of the contract of employment signed at the time of recruitment and to pay it the sum of EUR 1 000 in the context of the temporary award of late payment. Finally, it provides for an application to be filed on 15 February 2022. Also, in the context of the investigation of the complainants, an on-the-spot check was carried out by labour inspectors of the competent department on Saturday, September 4, 2021 at the hotel. The audit found the overtime of five workers in cleaning - they are trousers - while another worker was overworking without being registered in the information system 'ERGANI' as envisaged. The investigation will continue and will, of course, be subject to the penalties provided for in respect of certified infringements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u151	We're continuing now...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u153	What can you say, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u154	If the answers are what the services say, let's not ask questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u155	We continue with the eighth question under number 1055/13-9-2021 in the second cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingarou Kegeroglou...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, a comment on both questions of the JRC. What we are doing is supporting legality, in which it exists and taking any measures on the basis of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u157	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u158	In this timely question by Mr Synergy, the effectiveness of this protection also appears to be apparent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u159	Thank you. We continue with the eighth under the number 1055/13-9-2021 topical question of the second question of the Member of the Heraklion Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The prolonged mini lockdowns in some prefectures also impose immediate and substantial support measures". Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u160	During the pandemic, Mr President, Minister, the Government has taken measures to support social groups, professionals and workers because of the consequences of the pandemic. However, in the regions where local restrictive measures exist due to the particular conditions created by the pandemic, there are significant effects on the economy, on workers and on social groups, the necessary measures have not been taken. Especially in Crete, and especially in Heraklion, we had local restrictive measures close to the fifty to sixty days. In particular, food business, coffee, workers in them, musicians and music workers have been particularly affected by vertical reductions in their incomes. What they are asking for is that there should be a special allowance for this period, that there should be provision for reducing the number of persons necessary to join the unemployment subsidy and, of course, that there should also be the form of support for the rental subsidy that has been in the other social groups. This is the minimum framework that the Ministry of Labour could, the government will decide to support these people. So I ask you whether these measures concerning food, entertainment centres, social events, and especially workers and professional musicians, DJ, are in agreement with you and whether you intend to take them or what else you intend to do to support these social groups? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u161	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, in your question you refer to the measures to limit the pandemic that are now being taken locally. Of course I will answer your question, but I would first like to point out that, in general, everything has so far been done to deal with the consequences of the coronary pandemic and the measures to limit the economy. Under difficult budgetary conditions for the country, the government supported almost all economic activity by measures of over 40 billion euros over the two years '20-21. This support to GDP is unprecedented especially taking into account the amount of public debt and the financial constraints resulting from it. The government has responded directly to the need to support households and businesses, and the results of this policy are visible. The latest data available from ELSTAT on the labour market show that in July the unemployment rate was reduced to 14.2% by 2.6 percentage points compared to July 20 and 3.1 percentage points compared to July 2009. In other words, despite the pandemic and the recession it has caused - just to remind us that last year Greece's GDP declined by 8.2% - the unemployment rate has declined and despite its high level of declining it is also high. At the same time, in absolute terms, employment has been at the highest levels since 2011, while, according to estimates by international organisations, GDP is expected to exceed the pre-university level this year. We've been in a new phase of dealing with the pandemic. Vaccines are available, which are effective and lead us to the next day safely. That is why the measures we take are not horizontal but apply where there is a health burden at local level, such as the areas you mentioned in your question and always on the advice of experts. However, in this case support for those affected, even if they are very specific groups of the population, is not excluded. Such workers shall be encouraged to adopt a Joint Ministerial Decision authorising employers established or having branches in regional units of the country in which specific services are not allowed to be provided or where there is a time limit for their provision by a public authority, to suspend workers' contracts of employment for the duration of that mandate. As far as the restrictive measures provided for by the workers in undertakings that have their head office or branch there on the basis of the SAR defined by the Ministry of Finance are concerned, they will receive the relevant support without even applying eligibility criteria for their turnover. At the moment, the measures we are taking are very targeted and concern specific groups of workers and sectors of activity. In the inappropriate case, however, where epidemiological data are getting worse, we have in our patronage measures of a larger scale, such as suspensions and extensions of insurance contributions, which can be recruited as they have been in previous phases of the pandemic. In my dentistry, I shall refer to other measures relating to local lockdowns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u163	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u164	I want, Minister, specifically so that we do not now have a general and vague debate and the one we have already done on what happened over the forty billion to say just one word, that we are not criticising you that you have not given money. We say that you have even given too much in relation to other countries in Europe, but they have not taken the place in question. That is what you said in relation to the 8.2% of the recession. But here, in this particular question, I would like to see exclusively the areas that are applied locally restrictive measures, as I told you about Crete, and particularly Heraklion, which lasted two, three weeks more than the other prefectures, which we had near sixty days lockdown, not just limiting the hours of operation at night by 12:00, but banning music, banning activities that means we have a burden on certain social groups. We therefore have the burden of all food business, coffee, we have the burden of their workers, the burden by interrupting the work of musicians and music workers, DJ. We therefore have specific things to deal with. We say that this burden has already been paid, and the family of each worker has already paid the price. Are they going to receive special purpose compensation? The NSA you said will come out of it. Now I'm talking about what's happened. Will it be predicted retrospectively that they'll take it? Is there going to be a reduction in the fees needed to enter the unemployment fund or seasonal allowance? You know, there's a whole thing in general. Will there be any support for the housing allowance, housing assistance? It is a specific question for specific local lockdowns and specific categories of workers and I would like your answer to be the same specific one, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u165	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Let me make a point before going to the essence of your question. Whether they caught or didn't get any place, the measures we took, I think, show it to be two statistics. I already referred to the first one. Despite pandemic the rate of unemployment is falling quite rapidly and the main thing is that in absolute terms employment is growing constantly. The second and very important thing about whether they caught or didn't get a place is that despite GDP reduction by 8.2% last year, household income was increased. That's all. But let me now come to the main part of your question, which I think has been answered in my prototype. We are promoting a joint ministerial decision - it will soon come out, Mr Kegeroglu, for workers affected by local lockdowns, such as the DJs you referred to in your question. In this way, we prove that we have reflexes to respond to whatever needs arise. I would also like to add to the above and what is going to be done for artists, creators and professionals in general. You refer to them in your question. For them, there is a specific platform in the ERGAN information system, in which they should be registered to become beneficiaries of the EUR 534 special-purpose compensation. I have also referred to another timely question by Mr Syntagakis, who left the Chamber just a week ago that this measure was implemented until last May, but in this case we are also promoting the adoption of a KHS - a joint ministerial decision - to extend the grant of the special purpose compensation for the months of June and July 2021. Mr Kegeroglu, as you can see, no one has been left uncovered and no support for the difficult situation we've been experiencing for a year and a half. The figures themselves show that the government has not just remained undisturbed in the face of developments but has made sure that it draws up real and substantial support measures for the whole economy and, of course, for the labour market. But we have already entered a new phase of the vaccine pandemic and we have the opportunity to allow the resumption of social and economic activity. However, it is necessary for society and the economy to function smoothly, but also our only hope of leaving the horizontal measures behind. Those who have been vaccinated show not only their desire to protect themselves from the coronary and to return to their pre-university life, but also their solidarity with our fellow citizens. With this in mind, I too would like to call for vaccination for those of our fellow citizens who have not yet done so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u167	We continue with the seventh under the number 1054/13-9-2021 topical question of the second question of the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr.Kosos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Department of land and sea zone of Linoprams in the municipality of Maleviziou". Mr. Besiropoulos will answer. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question concerns the granting of land and sea zones to the Municipality of Maleviziu. It is the terrestrial zone of the port of Heraklion, which extends to both the borderline of the Municipality of Heraklion and to the borderline of the Municipality of Malevizios. In our previous question about Heraklion you promised that there would be a procedure to exclude at least part of this area from the concession in order to be in the management of the Municipality of Heraklion and the common use of citizens. Today I am referring specifically to the land area of the region of the City of Malevizio, which the municipality is asking for to be granted in order to join the local development programme. It is an area that currently hosts power plants, but which is expected to be relocated in the next period, according to the planning of the Ministry of the Environment. In fact, the port of Heraklion does not have any activity in relation to this area, and we need to look very seriously at the request of the Municipality of Malevizio, so that, on the one hand, it will not be granted to the private person who will take over the port of Heraklion, but, on the other, it will be attributed to the use, exploitation and management of the municipality of Malevizi and the Municipal Port Fund, which exists and operates for the port of Linopera, and on the other hand we have a land area that belongs to a port of another municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u169	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, as you know, I have answered your similar question relatively recently. Of course, this question focuses on the concession of part of the land and sea zone of Linnopera to the Municipality of Malevizio. Let me remind you that the administration and operation of the port of Heraklion is the ‘Organisation of the Port of Heraklion S.A.’. The Port Authority of Heraklion shall have the exclusive right to use and operate the land, buildings and facilities of the port zone of Heraklion. Within the port area, the port area of Linoperamamata area of Heraklion, which is claimed by the Municipality of Malevizios, is included. In the region of Linoperama there are archaeological findings, as well as indications of the existence of port facilities in the Minoan period. You are therefore aware that any action in these areas requires the consent of the Ministry of Culture. From that point on, as you know, the total shares of Heraklion Port Authority have been transferred to the HIDE since 2012, which is now a subsidiary of the UFO. The HIAD has already launched a competitive process. A call for expressions of interest has been issued since 2 April 2021, which opened the competitive process for the sale of the majority package of the Port Authority of Heraklion. This does not mean that the area of concessions has also been included in the areas of self-government, in this case the Municipality of Maleviziou, but also in areas where there are archaeological sites, such as the Venetian Port, or areas where there are indications of the existence of archaeological findings. There is a second stage in this process, in which the spaces to be granted will be fully clarified. I shall refer more specifically to this phase in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u171	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u172	Minister, the port of Heraklion has nothing to do with the area. Historically this strip of land was granted for this simple reason: When the construction of the port of Heraklion was decided at the beginning of the previous century, the transport of inert materials from the vicinity beyond the Linoprams, where quarries were operated for this purpose. Thus, the creation of a fixed track of means of transport from this area in order to serve the construction of the port by transporting the inert materials was then also conditional on this terrestrial zone being granted. This terrestrial zone is now very close to the port area, which was subsequently created and managed by the Milevian Port Fund. In other words, there is another port in Linoperama. It is the Port of Maleviziou and next to it is the land area, which was allocated to the port of Heraklion about a century ago for the specific purpose I told you. Therefore, if we would like the land areas to be close to the ports to be developed, it should be granted to the Port of Malevizio. If we want the terrestrial zone to be integrated into local development planning more broadly into the municipality, it is certain that the concession must be exempted and transferred to the Municipality of Malevizi, where it belongs. I think that this is a Greek state's right, which even comes from this concession and the port's membership of the TEAD. It is possible not only for archaeological reasons, which exist here, but also for particularly developmental processes, provided for by other procedures of the Greek state, to have the corresponding concession. And it has been done in other municipalities and in other parts of the country. Malevisi deserves it and is entitled to it because many decades now hosts the facilities produced by energy on the island, at an environmental cost. Many decades now hosts in this region the plants which have to do with fuel and cement. Many decades now wait patiently when the state decides to relocate them. And now that it has decided to relocate and the Ministry of the Environment is going to have to be attributed to the municipality, and not to a private person who has come from nowhere to invest in the port of Heraklion, but who has nothing to do with the region. I have explained to you why this land area was granted elsewhere and has nothing to do with it. Is it like now saying a huge distance away from the port one, near another and belong to where?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u173	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u174	I therefore believe that the Ministry of Finance should take advantage of all the legal possibilities it has and is provided by law and conventions to exclude this area and be granted to the Municipality of Maleviziou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u175	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u176	Mr Colleague, as I have said before, the relevant competitive process by the GOI is under way. What you must have and keep in mind is that in the call for expressions of interest the exact perimeter of the concession area will be determined in the second stage of the competitive procedure. Therefore, in the second phase of the competitive process, we will have a full and clear picture of the areas to be exploited and of the areas that may be allocated to the local authorities. From there on, there is close cooperation between TIADED and the Greek State at all stages of the competitive process. This is because the State will be one of the parties to the concession in order to finalise the perimeter of the concession area. Then the possible exception or not of the Linoprat region will be determined. I stress that if this region is excluded, then the body to be managed will also be identified and, of course, the government remains open to realistic proposals submitted by government and other bodies. It is therefore a process under way for the successor status of taking over the management of the terrestrial port areas, which will be released by the Port Authority of Heraklion. Regarding the issue of the percentage return from the receipts of the ‘Organisation Port of Heraklion S.A.’. I note that, in accordance with the legislation in force, the revenues of the port administration and operation operators are contributors to the construction, maintenance and improvement of port facilities and port services provided for the smooth operation of the port. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u177	We're continuing with Mr. Kegeroglu. Now we're going to the Ministry of Rural Development. Subsequently, under number 1049/13-9-2021, a top-level question for the first cycle of the Hercules MP of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "To remove the unfavourable treatment of agricultural parcels from the legacy of rural rehabilitation of Miraika refugees". Mr Colleague, I have heard your question many times. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u178	Mr President, it's all the time. He has been answered by Mr Stylian, but in his capacity as State Secretary for Digital Policy. So he rightly said that he is the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development and if the Minister for Rural Development is convinced, then it is all right. So the crew of the year came, Mr. Mitsotakis listened to us and because it concerns Crete and our Asia Minor, he placed Mr. Stylis State Secretary for Rural Development in charge of the matter and it is time to resolve it. So here we come before you to ask the Minister to shape the institutional framework in such a way that it is treated in the same way as the parcels or plots which are part of the legacy of other citizens. It is a specific arrangement, which has been made and in order to be able to pay compensation - expropriations at Kastelion airport. We have shaped it and in the form of an amendment, which simply says that, for the uninterrupted implementation of the realisation carried out by the legal person governed by public law 'Greek Register', the agricultural lots are excluded from the scope of the provision of Article 9 of Law No 431 which prohibits - I recall - the fragmentation retrospectively from its entry into force and until its abolition, which was made on 22 March 2012 by Article 37 of Law 4061. That provision does not affect the rights already acquired on the lots. It is a complete provision, or in any case, if it is not, we can improve and ask the Minister if he intends to proceed with the definitive lifting of the discrimination of the legacy in relation to the declarations relating to the register, which he must, in fact, unnecessarily proceed with.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u179	The Minister knows about this. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u180	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, you know that we have dealt with this and I and the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Lebanese, have spoken. In fact, last July I happened to answer and then the Minister answered. It is a difficult issue, it is an issue to which we cannot find a solution in a simple and easy way, and it is an issue that we need to ensure that the Constitution and the international treaties signed by our country and with which it is committed. I understand the reference you make to the law for the Airport of Castel. But you also know very well that in that case in Kastelli we had a great deal of work, the second largest one in the country, the Airport of Kastelli, very important to the economic development of Crete and the country in general. You are aware that there were reasons for public interest in which the following problem was raised: In helmets, which were partitioned, there could be no expropriation. So the legislator came in order to be able to proceed judicially and to make the expropriation conditional only on this case. You also know that the purpose of our Ministry and the concession of the legacy is to enable farmers and the next purpose and purpose of our ministry to avoid fragmentation of these areas. Therefore, you understand that it is difficult to find a solution and to be so simple. We'd have done it already. We would have adopted your proposals, because we know that you are interested in this and interested in it, but it concerns a number of our fellow citizens. However, we cannot in any case circumvent the laws, constitution and international commitments which we have nor can we invoke grounds of general public interest. Our government has taken care of the extension which it has given and which, by 2024, is to give way to the owners to resort to justice so that they can legitimise the divisions that have been made in their legacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u181	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u182	As you can see, Mr President, when it comes to transferring responsibility to others, we agree and when it comes to making decisions, we say it is difficult because of international treaties. There is nothing to impact on an international treaty and convention, and I say it with the following simple argument: the ban on fragmentation has already been abolished since 2012. It has already been abolished by Law 4061 and partition is permitted. The question is the informal partitions that have been made either because the Minor refugee has shared to his two children the particular half-three and not by incompetent means if we can legalise this distribution of the informal distribution which has been made and which is allowed in the next land that is not lot. So, you're gonna ban her next door? I don't understand. The answer you gave unfortunately has the foundation for what I had told you before, which is about the legal matter and the interests of a guild to unravel people who have a value-for-money and the procedure that your own provision is currently providing for is a multiple amount to settle. So Mr Vorides, who is aware of international conventions and all that - he is legal - brought this regulation to pay for expropriations not to be paid. The expropriations had occurred. There was no need for a payment procedure to result in expropriations, but for people to be paid, it made the adjustment. It is precisely then that there is a much larger project of public interest and of national importance called the Land register - it is a larger project than the airport of Kastelion - and the uninterrupted implementation of the realisation of this arrangement, which, when it was done, was done for the reasons it has changed, and the reason that it has never existed and should have been abolished much earlier. For the sake of national and public interest in its implementation, for the sake of protecting the weak people who nickle them -1000 euros makes the field and take 1500 to declare it in the Register! That's what this is about. It is not going to complete the register in this way - I think you should review your position. Last Monday we had the question with the new Deputy Minister for Digital Policy said that he was seeing the problem, it is a light light, but it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development. I say that, Minister, don't worry, your predecessor said the same to me, now that he's in the other position, he's going to solve it. Unfortunately, it seems to be the ministers on legal matters rather than the ministers. I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u183	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u184	Let us see what choices we have and what possibilities are there to be clear about those who are watching us and who will look back at the Minutes of the House to see the answer. It raises the issue of retrospective power before 2012 and you say we start from 1968 onwards. This is where we have a very big issue. That is why I mention the difficulty and the specific position that I now hope the Prime Minister will have heard you have not only for this matter, but also for many others that had to do with the work and work that we have done with Minister Pierracakis at the Ministry of Digital Governance. It is possible, therefore, that, if we move forward with the regulation you say, we go back to the 20th year of 1988 and back to 1968 and invoke the usage of whatever property and any piece it sees has not been declared in the register and thus create a very big problem, that some areas which have not been delivered to them when they were refugees, but have never belonged to them, have never had them. This danger exists and is too great and we want to avoid it. That is why we are telling you that we are considering and studying this case very carefully always respecting international conditions and certainly always having the first to comply with the Constitution. So we can in no way escape the Constitution. However, there is the following: Article 39 of Law 4673/2020 provides a way of restoring the error by means of the validation of an irregular legal act, i.e. partitioning and extending the procedure in Article 31 of Law 4061/2000 for five years after their expiry or until 22 March 2024. And we want to bypass this law that applies until 2024. Furthermore, there is the possibility of ratification by a notary act - the law gives it the possibility of going to the notary - and not having to go to the courts. Do not, in other words, need not go for usage or invoke other provisions. What does that have as a benefit? Use requires procedural procedures that can reach the Marble Ice. So many years and many expenses. The notarial act that the law allows it is done, reaches the peace court and at much less costs. In addition, the tax paid on the use is twice as high as the tax paid on the transfer of the property. And I remind you of the Prime Minister's recent announcements to the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki where the parental benefits will no longer have the tax. This tax has been abolished. So the Prime Minister of the country finds solutions through the procedures. The government tells you a way there can be. Let's go to the notary, it becomes the notary and we don't pay a tax by law and by a decision announced by the Government of New Democracy and by Kyriakos Mitsotakis just recently, ten days ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Minister. MEP Mr Theocharis (Harris) Theocharis calls for a short-day absence from abroad from 22-9-2021 to 27-9-2021 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u186	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We continue with the second with number 8034-15-2021 question of the cycle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Additional to the list of ICES crops under cover". Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u187	Those, Minister, of course, live in the notary and partition. In 2012, the law of banning partition with the Minister of Scandalidis was abolished and proposed an amendment to Kegeroglu. So those who live go. We're talking about people who don't live. Do you understand? People who don't live, to make a contract now, they have to make a fake. And the procedure of abnormal law enforcement provides for a contract that you have him to make, that is to say, to sign. Look at Crete - if you want to be informed - there is a special property regime from the Constitution. If you say you respect the Constitution, look at it. There is atypical parental provision and informal transfer. These are all registered in E9. In order to be used, a jury is required to testify, as in the next plot. And that's what we're asking you to do. We're not asking you to do anything different, to be equal in fate. Yesterday we closed ninety years from the Asia Minor Destruction. It is shameful to treat the descendants of the Asia Minor from the Greek state because of honor! That's where you get people to be ashamed of because they're the unfavourable treatment of their offspring and those who bought them for no reason, just to make money for some people. You can't do that! That is why it is, Minister. Understood. See who's making the suggestions first. I come to the question, which concerns the update of the IACC list for crops under cover. There are crops under cover that have no code and in order for people to state them in the IACC statement state other things. Or they declare that they are an outdoor crop that is not, or indicate a similar crop. The OAU tells them by answering the phones "Secret a similar crop. He does the same, since he is not.’ So what we are asking is covered crops, greenhouse, that is, spinach, slippery, rosemary, thyme, basilica, tarragon, oregano, coriander, chicory, what is now on the market for our own and is Greek production, to join, to have their own CIS and to be able to declare them in the CIS with truth, not with lies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u188	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u189	Mr Kegeroglu, in relation to the previous question, you know very well that the same sensitivities you have about refugees, about the Greeks who were uprooted by Asia Minor and come to our country, we have them and we have them - I believe - all the MPs who are in the Greek Parliament and all the parties. In this case, we will see how many people are and we are open if we can legally find a solution, examine and legislate. We never denied it. We didn't say we couldn't. We are talking about the difficulties that exist. We openly and publicly expose them to the Greek Parliament and to you and to us and we have a dialogue that everyone knows about. And we can fix things. I am speaking to you in relation to our intentions, as the Ministry's political leadership, to resolve this matter. Another thing, of course, is to provide land, to be cultivated - and that is why fragmentation had been banned in the past, and it is a ban on the fragmentation of the farmed land - and another thing is to give land to obtain one's residence. It's not the same thing. In relation to the register, in order not to remain unanswered, I would like to remind you that on 29 July we passed the new Land register law, which allows for real estate, for the first post and for the first registration, and in cases where applications for correction are made - objections to be pending. Therefore, the work of the register is progressing. The cases where there are objections, which were very small in number - remember: 2% -3% - are being examined by special committees which were also set up for this purpose, and that is why. In relation to the list, in order to be able to open up to the IACC and to include some products, such as those you mentioned, they should surely be included in the national list and have obtained approval for their production within the European Union, so they should be in the national and common lists of resources before they are placed on the market within the European Union. I have asked the OPEKEPE for information on this matter. At the moment, I tell you that there has not been either a private person or a declaration reception centre for any of the products you mentioned before and mentioned in your question, in order to create an additional code in the IACC, which, of course, can be done by means of a procedure in the OPEKEP. This procedure is before the declarations and during the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u190	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u191	Minister, I am surprised, not you, that your answer from the OPEKEPE has not been requested. I was a self-defense witness on the phone. He took me in front of me. I'm telling him: Here, boy. Is it possible they don't have a solution? And he says, "Please state one close." He says, "But I want to state the truth. What should I do?' "There is no code, my lord, I told you!" Well, is that possible? I think the procedure and parliamentary control are official. Officially, then, ask your services for what they exist and are sold at supermarkets. Go to the supermarket and buy. Spinach buys, rosemary buys, slippery buys, royal buys. These come out of a greenhouse. A revelation! The ones you buy from the supermarket ignored by the OPEKEPE? If that's possible! Well, have we heard stuff from OPEKEPE, but this too? I would ask you, therefore, to formally ask him as Ministry to include them in market-based codes. It's the marketplace that's in the supermarkets. It's Greek production. Here in Mesogeia, if you go to Marathon, you'll see huge areas of greenhouses with these products. Everyone is lying, as the services suggest. Why? Because there's not a simple bureaucratic correction. What can I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u192	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u193	To find a solution - since you and we want to find a solution, to serve and facilitate the world - I think there can be an application to the OPECE. In any case, you can send an application from the interested parties, so that we can make the specific codes in the ICES and move forward. However, I am telling you that the answer I am giving here and received from the OPEKEPE agency is what it says that, while it is 12 million hectares to seven thousand producers producing this category of aromatic plants, there has been no application to open an additional code. So let a request be made. You say that. We can hear it. We say it can be done. There's a procedure. It's set. So let us move on to a solution to the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u194	We're continuing with the last question. It is the first under number 1053/13-9-2021 of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Pella - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theodoras Jackis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Manufacture of the Almopea (Kales) dam". Mrs. Jackres, you'll have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u195	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the issue of building the Almopius dam has been brought to the House several times with time-consuming questions. Last time was January 2021. The Minister for Rural Development then, Mr Lebanese actually recognised the importance of this project for Pella, in fact confirming the intention of the Ministry, once a truly important study that has come to an end at the last minute, which concerns a small forest road, has to go ahead with the project. It also expressed the Ministry's intention to join the Agriculture Recovery Fund. In fact, Minister, in all honesty I say this: it was not my intention to come back within such short space of time with a new time-consuming question to the Minister for Rural Development, but I will explain exactly why I was forced, much more so when I know by the mouth of the former Minister Mr Screka, that the project took little extension until the beginning of the autumn of 2021, which we are now in the process of completing these important studies and to prepare the tender documents for the project. But on June 11, 2021, I read in the local press, Minister, a press release issued by the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Karasmanis, which says: "The construction of the Almopian dam is final and irreversible. This development justifies the Member's long-standing struggle. The project has been integrated into the Recovery Fund.’ Not "will be integrated" or "will be integrated", but that it has been integrated into the Recovery Fund. Since this information has not been confirmed from anywhere since I have been addressing the relevant departments and the Ministry of Rural Development and the Ministry of Finance and both of them have been ignorant about this supposedly great development which justifies Mr Karasmanis' long struggle for the integration of this project into the Recovery Fund, so I would like to ask the Minister of Finance, Mr. Pylacaki, who also has responsibility for the Recovery Fund, given the great picture of the victory of their integration into the Development Fund. And despite the formal press releases with false cubic titles and false content, we're talking about mysteries, fantasy. It is only a fiction of Mr. Karasmanis' imagination about allegedly joining the project in 2009 that was then answered. For the record, I will only say that the study of the project joined the Ministry of Rural Development of Kostas Scandalidis in 2011. I address the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Finance responsible for the Recovery Fund declares unauthorized, Minister. Come here to the House to answer my question. I therefore need to put a new question to the Minister for Rural Development. Look, I don't ask you to apologize for Mr. Dogs' attitude and it's not personal. The local community, however, needs to be informed of exactly where the project is going if the studies which are missing and if there is a serious government intention have been completed. Unfortunately, you will tell us about the Government - because it is not your responsibility to incorporate it into the Recovery Fund - to incorporate this very important project which is both irrigational and anti-military into the Recovery Fund and what actions the Government has taken and whether it has been in contact with or is in cooperation with the services of the Ministry of Finance to integrate this very important project into the Recovery Fund, because that is what is happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u196	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u197	Thank you very much, Mr President. In relation to the specific issue you raise, I am leaving aside as far as the Members of Parliament who are in Pella, in the same constituency, are concerned, and I have no reason to say what was published by someone or what was not published. I will speak to you and tell you what the reality is up until now and what the historical history of this project has started to get on the table and enter the Ministries and start up to this day the citizens of the whole country, but also in Pella will draw their own conclusions. You can also make personal reports and local controversies for your reasons. We are therefore talking about the construction of the Almopia dam which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food Secretariat. This is an important development project for the Municipality of Pella. Firstly, on 21 May 2009 the integration of the study on the construction of the Almopio dam project was approved in Pella Prefecture. I say it again: May 2009. Let me mention the purpose of the project. The purpose of the project is to create a reservoir to irrigate agricultural areas in the wider areas of the plain of Thessaloniki and to strengthen the ecological supply in the regional treasury of Thessaloniki. On 11 August 2011, the notice for the preparation of the project was withdrawn. I don't know for what reasons. I will then try to explain them. On 16 September 2011, the reopening of the study was approved and in August 2012 the Competition Committee recommended that the study be awarded. So here we are seeing from the start to study the project, not the project, in 2009 we arrived to have a final contractor who will undertake the study that will emerge to open the project in 2012. What's he been through this three-year period? The 2009 elections, the change of government and again the 2012 elections and the change of government took place. It happens in 2009 that the government that ran the project was New Democracy and the government happened in 2012 to sign the contract for the preparation of the study and made the award of the tender to be the co-government that existed in 2012 between the New Democracy, the Change Movement and DIMAR then at the same time. In the two years 2012-2014 the studies were run and at the end of 2014 we have completed a large part of the first phase of the studies. It was then decided to proceed with the second phase of integration of the studies, which was completed in 2018 and started the preparation phase of the studies. We are re-launching these studies on the contract signed in June 2019. From 2019 onwards, studies have started and are compiled. So, by doing a recapitalisation, we have that in 2009-2012 the studies did not run, from 2015 to June 2019, the next phase of the studies that are being carried out was signed. We have the announcements from the New Democracy Government of the previous predecessors to my position that are closely and continuously following this project. And I tell you that this is correct by the encouragement and continued presence of the Members of the Pella Prefecture of New Democracy who are involved in this work so that these studies can be completed. That is what I have to say about the first phase and then I will come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u198	Mrs. Jackrey, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u199	Minister, you also in fact confirm that there is no progress in the development of the project and, above all, that no work has been put into the Recovery Fund, much more so. That's what you just confirmed. Thank you so much for turning around. You admitted yourself that the study notice was actually carried out in 2011. Let me start by saying that I have been following this for many years. The most important work of his license was his environmental license. And you know, Minister, the most important work in implementing projects is environmental licensing. This was completed in 2019 and this exceptional need emerged for this small forest road that is just 100 meters, which delayed the completion of the studies. But you know very well, Minister, that other thing is that I should like to see the work carried out on the recovery fund included, as the body of the press releases published by my colleague in Pella said. They shall refrain from these two. So, Minister, what I am asking you today - because no matter what we want to do, the projects are not part of financial instruments, and most of all in the Recovery Fund, with press releases - it is to tell me whether the final studies on the project have actually been completed, because I have told you that the environment has been completed since the beginning of 2019. In the meantime, there has been another post which you and you, and rather to this government, do not know what the left is doing on the right. On 7-9-2021 there is a report from the Ministry of Finance where this project, last in a row, is announced to be a member of the Recovery Fund along with eighteen other, Minister, who you do not know at the Ministry. And what does it say here? That they are projects of a total budget of EUR 1 billion of which 200,000 will be covered by the recovery fund and the rest by private individuals. That is why we do not know anything else. I would like you to tell me, Mr Minister, what the intentions of this government are with regard to this project. Is there really any intention of being subject to the Recovery Fund? Are the studies completed? And if the latter is the case, what action you have taken. For example, in the recruitment of financial consultants, in the deposit of a file, drafting a specific dossier? I am very much afraid that you have spoken about the implementation of this project through a PPP for which we know very well. I too, although, first of all, am not opposed to the construction of public works via the PPP, but I am asking whether there is actually a way through the PPP to build a dam, that is, a water reservoir and a network for transporting it to the crops. As you can see, this will cause a disproportionate cost for the same service offered to farmers in the region for water. And to remind you, as we are here today, that it is probably starting from the beginning, that it is a project that is very important. As I told you in my protology, it's a irrigation project. Thousands of acres in the camp area of Pella will be irrigated by this. At the same time, it is also anti-military work. We all recognise in the midst of the climate change crisis how important these infrastructure projects are, on the one hand, aimed at rational water management and, on the other, at protecting citizens from these severe flooding phenomena seen by the exacerbation of this phenomenon of climate change. In this respect, Minister, I would like you to answer me and not to give me any new historical retreats to the multitude of the construction of the Almopius dam which, as it goes, is probably the new bridge of Arta. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u200	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u201	I want to make this clear: to do this, we need studies. In order for a large project to be done, studies are needed at different levels. We are talking about a great deal of work and a great deal of work, so we are dealing with it, and we in the government understand it. So I tell you that the study on this project, the overall budget, is close to EUR 4 million. So this study of the different phases and types of studies it has, in fact, takes place in the times when the country's governance has been governed by New Democracy. This is a reality that you can't change and talk about another thing. In fact, I say to you that you can publish the answers you have received to your questions - the simple questions, not the topical ones - from the parliamentary control, where all the information I mentioned earlier is written in detail and I tried to say it sooner. You, too, have that possibility, as do other Members, so that the citizens can be informed. The fact is that the Government of New Democracy is moving on, implements, is at the final stage of the completion of all the studies, final studies, implementation studies, environmental studies, geotechnical studies, all the studies needed to proceed and certainly the tenders of the project. We do not speak of works theoretically, nor of works that we have in mind. With the tender documents, we are moving on to the next phase. Be sure that very soon the tender documents will be submitted to the Ministry of Rural Development and Food with the relevant services, and from there we will proceed to the next stage in the tendering of the project. Therefore, the Government is following this project, overseeing the studies for this project, overseeing the procedures and making its planning progress in its implementation as well and in order to secure the money for this implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-20-S1-commons.u203	With the consent of the House at 19.43 the sitting is closed for Tuesday, September 21, 2021, at 11.00, on the subject of work: legislative work, according to the agenda.
