ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the agenda, we will take the oath of colleagues, Angelou Tolka of Charalambos and Mr Konstantinos Kollias of the Brigadier General, who will replace Mr Karasharlidou and Mrs Maria - Eleni Soukoulis - Vilialis, who have lost their status as parliamentarian in accordance with the decisions of the Supreme Special Court Nos 14/28-6-21 and 15/28-6-21. Mr Angelos Tolkas and Mr Konstantinos Kollias are invited to come and give the oath before the representative of the Church. [[Members of Parliament, Mr Angelos Tolkas and Mr Konstantinos Kollias, come to this point and give the following oath:]] "I swear in the name of the Holy and Omousiasias and Indivisible Trinity to be loyal to the homeland and the democratic city, to obey the Constitution and the laws and to fulfill conscientiously my duties."
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u2	Worthful, worthy! The President of Parliament, who attended your vow, wishes you all "welcome" and a good and fertile term.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u3	We will be interrupted for ten minutes to then enter the agenda. I would ask the parties' secretariats to inform the rapporteurs and Parliamentary Representatives in good time in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We'll start with some announcements. The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance ‘Medium-term Financial Strategy Framework 2022-2025’. The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics shall submit its report to the Prosecutor's request for authorisation to prosecute a criminal prosecution against a Member. Finally, Ministers of Justice, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, Labour and Social Affairs, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Home Affairs, Migration and Asylum, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Territories Policy, Rural Development and Food, State, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Foreign and Home Affairs, as well as the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, submitted a draft law on 30-6-2021: ‘Prevention and repression of money laundering and terrorist financing – Amendment of Directive 2018/1673 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2018 on combating money laundering through criminal law and provisions on speeding up the administration of justice. They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance ‘Medium-term Financial Strategy Framework 2022-2025’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 24 June 2021 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting on the principle and the articles. In particular, the discussion of the draft law is proposed to take place in speaker circles, which will include speakers with the ratio of five New Democracy, five SYRIZA, a Change Movement, Communist Party, Greek Solution, Mer25. The names of the speakers have already been designated by the parliamentary groups by letters of this kind and the competent authority has drawn up a list to be distributed to you. I would remind you that speakers who wish to be put through a teleconferencing will speak as soon as the speakers have completed their courses in a natural presence. Addendums will not be accepted unless mutual changes are accepted. Note: They are fifty-seven colleagues who have been written. We have done a calculation and, roughly in thirteen hours, all colleagues will speak. Well, it goes without saying, rapporteurs and parliamentary representatives. The two leaders of the big parties who are outside Athens are sure that they will not be present and will not speak. For the rest, we don't have any updates so far if anyone or someone else is coming to talk. I would therefore like to see the list exhausted around 24 a.m., but in any case, because the officials will have two hours left for the vote, to conclude the meeting with the procedure that I have said is classic. Okay, not all parties, but they're two, three, four parties. So we can start with your agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u6	So, we're not going tomorrow?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u7	No, Mr. Chakaloto, that's why we're going for hours to free Friday. And I think there has also been a consultation between the Special Secretary and the parliamentary groups of the parties to end today. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Theodoros Karaoglou, has the floor for 15 minutes. Ordering the maintenance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will start my speech in plenary from the point of view of stopping at the first meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the medium-term framework for a 2022-2025 financial strategy. I said in the dialog of that position that I was told that the secret of the success of the New Democracy Government is the fourfold: Talmame, we are trying, we are planning, we are implementing. These are, in my opinion, the four most important pillars of good governance, whereby every responsible leadership must make critical decisions on the basis of self-discipline, realism and social justice. Now that political time is accelerating because of pandemic, it is important that a government builds relationships of confidence. Mobilize a collective vision and inspire co-responsibility. Because only then can it be more effective to address the major challenges. The difficult months of pandemic have in the most sincere way highlighted a global shift towards documented experience and knowledge. The right reason has become a part of everyday life again and as far as the states are concerned, it is now clear that those governments who have commanded and have not been succumbed to the management of situations can now look at the future with optimism. One of them, ladies and gentlemen, is the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, who has done what was and is humanly possible in order to mitigate the effects of the health crisis. Over the last two years we have supported households and businesses with a total of EUR 41 billion. In 2020, 23,1 billion was allocated, 15,8 billion will be allocated in 2021, and 2,1 billion will be anticipated in 2022. We committed ourselves at the beginning of the crisis that none of our compatriots, no Greeks will feel alone and we have succeeded. This is because our political orientation was clearly directed at the results produced daily by the reforms are measurable and we went, with a timetable and above all a target. The equilibrium that we have achieved between the shielding of business and the preservation of jobs is confirmed in the most pertinent way by the medium-term framework of a 2022-2025 fiscal strategy. Its predictions are not just optimistic, it is the reward of the national effort to keep Greece upright. This is how we are happy today to talk about the safe transition of the Greek economy from partial recovery to total recovery. In a few months' time, our country will benefit from the recovery fund. I have sought enough evidence and can assure you that our country has never again had the same amount of European resources to support development. In this perspective, the challenge that we have before us is not limited to finding funds, but is extended to launch several investment ideas that are capable of absorbing available resources. On substance, the Medium-term Financial Strategy Framework reveals the total reintroduction of our national economy to normality. It describes Greece of the future and shows us that we must be optimistic that Greece, our homeland, can become the country of prosperity and give its citizens wealth and security. Let us consider that the growth rate of the Greek economy will run at 3.6% in 2021, with 6.2% in 2022, while the rest of the period of the Middle-Term by 2025 will be stable at around 4%. It is not enough for us to have a strong recovery, we are working on sustainable development, while changing our productive model. If Mr. Yiannis Stournaras' proposal seems utopian, let them take into account the impressive assessment of the Governor of the Bank of Greece, Mr. Yiannis Stournaras, that our country's Gross Domestic Product is possible to develop at an annual rate of 3.5% over the next decade. On a practical level, this means that once this assessment has been confirmed in 2031, the country's GDP will reach 240 billion, i.e., at the levels of the far away in the past, in 2008. Of course, in order to achieve such an ambitious goal, a chorus of positive developments is needed. However, it is clear that we have the right conditions to achieve the longest period of growth for the Greek state. This demonstrates the importance of the proper use of the Recovery Fund's resources. Their targeted availability, in conjunction with the reforms we are implementing, is the two catalysts to ensure the country's fastest possible transition to a future of strong, sustainable, green, extroverted growth. What I am saying is not theories, but estimates based on specific assumptions. For example, in the medium term private investment, as well as the resources from the Recovery Fund, will increase this year by 7%. In particular, 2022 will be launched at 30.3% and in the next few years will continue to increase by 12.3% in 2023 and by 10.8% in 2024 and 7.4% in 2025. However, exports of goods and services will also be followed by 10.4% in 2021, 13.8% in 2022, 7.5% in 2023, 6.2% in 2024 and 5.2% in 2025. The same will happen with private consumption, which will increase this year by 2.6%, 2022 by 2.9%, 2023 by 2.1%, 2024 by 2.8% and 2025 by 2.2%. The recovery of the volume of private consumption in 2022 at 2019 levels means that next year we will have recovered all the losses of the economic crisis. From the sequence of developments, which I describe will be positively affected both the level of employment and the nominal average wage, above the 2019 level by 1.6% employment and by 1.1% the average monthly wage level. As expected, the improvement in the employment level will lead to a decline in unemployment, the rate of which is expected to be around 16.3% this year to fall to 14.4% in 2022, 13.2% in 2023, 11.9% in 2024 and 11.1% in 2025. At the same time, it is envisaged to exit the country from the enhanced surveillance regime within 2022, to reach a one-digit percentage of so-called red loans in 2022, as well as to reach an investment grade by the first half of 2023. Ladies and gentlemen, the evidence I have given to you shows that our economy has withstanded and endured, as our industry and the processing, as is the case with the competitiveness of our economy, which is greatly improved. It is also indicative that citizens' deposits are increasing for the 15th consecutive month and for those who are rushing to claim that they are saving few, I say that according to official figures, 57% of an increase of 33 billion deposits over the last year and a half is due to many households. So in the medium term it is not classic, as the committee has pointed out. On the contrary, it's realistic. It is not unfair, but from the financial area, which will result from the primary surpluses, that the way is open to support tax reductions in households and businesses by means of a new reduction in taxes and insurance contributions. It is not for garbage, but it provides for a hundred nine thousand and seventy-five intakes by 2025, without deviating from the rule of "one to one". In 2021, thirty - two thousand eight hundred seventy hirings are expected, in 2022 twenty - three thousand two hundred fourteen, in 2023 nineteen thousand five hundred three, in 2024 twenty - five hundred ten and in 2025 thirteen thousand seven. These recruitments in the public sector will be added to the approximately two thousand new jobs that will be created in the private sector at the same time by mobilising private capital of EUR 100 billion from the recovery fund and the new NSRF. In short, the economy in the next few years is the key to all developments. The economy needs to be understood, read, handled humility and slipped into the peculiarities you'll encounter. The economy doesn't want egos or promises. He wants actions, realism, wisdom and measure. He wants you to be the opportunity everyone is looking for, just like our government has become the opportunity to smile again. Nearly two years after the national elections of July 7, 2019, we are looking at our compatriots in the eyes because we have implemented most of our election commitments, despite the fact that most of our government's term of office is an unprecedented health crisis. When Opposition invested in the prospect of burning land because of the coronary, we were struggling for Greece to remain upright and as long as Opposition acted like a turbulence, we turned our country into a construction site for new investment. Indeed, what was heard at the recent meeting of the SYRIZA political council. You really don't save yourself. Indicative of your panic is the reaction to the prepaid "free card" of 150 euros in the young eighteen to twenty-five years in order to be vaccinated against the pandemic. This is not a benefit, as you claim, but a call for responsibility and participation in the vaccination programme. We are not targeting youth, but we are motivating young children who have been very affected by the pandemic without having received any return from the state, as happened with other age or professional groups. I assure you - and I think you already know that - that providing incentives for the participation of citizens in the vaccination programme is not and is not Greek inspiration. In any case, our aim is threefold, firstly to make the participation in the vaccinations more attractive for this group; secondly, to make use of the EUR 150 for reasons directly linked to culture and tourism in the country; and thirdly, to support the domestic market in an indirect way that can exceed EUR 150 million, as it concerns almost a million young people. Public safety and health protection are our priority, ladies and gentlemen. It is no different because in the economy the return to social and professional life at the rate of pre-COVID is the key that will unlock the development of our national economy. The limit of our freedom is our health and the health of others, and I think we will all agree on that. Since autumn we are separated from some sixty days from today. Any return will be devastating. To sum up, a positive vote in the medium term is a positive vote in the future of Greece. The country's economic development cannot be put under the hostage of identifiable and rightful ones. Greece is changing, Greece is recovering, Greece is moving forward. Today we are called upon to show with our vote who encourages her to look optimisticly tomorrow and who want to keep her hostage yesterday. I understand that for SYRIZA it is a difficult period, because as a movement it is unable to thrive in conditions of growth and wealth creation. They know that very well, so they do what they are going through in order to undermine the country's development. As long as you go to the political margin, however, Greece proudly joins the bloc of the powerful states. He's got a voice, he has a speech, he has a strong government, he has a vision. It goes without saying that the New Democracy Party is voting for the Medium-term Financial Strategy Framework for the period 2022-2025. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u9	The general rapporteur for SYRIZA, Catherine Papanatziou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in the debate which took place in the committees on the medium term, we put forward our objections to the plan which the government has been building for the next few years. For us, the debate should include the proposals for the pandemic tomorrow. It should include answers to the questions raised by the unprecedented health crisis. It should meet the emergency needs that have been created. All this would, of course, be on the basis of opening the way for fair growth. On this basis, we should discuss the next period's action plan, a relaunching of the economy, a support scheme for society. Unfortunately, none of this is seen here. Sadly, once again, the debate and the debate in the House are undermining. Why am I saying that? Because we have learned your plans for taxation or social security and learned them without the National Representation being informed, but we have had to expect to be informed by leaks in the media or by the Ministers' interviews. None of this in the medium term is included. Even your new proposal for insurance, what has been discussed a few days ago at the Ministerial Council, Mr Minister, is not included in the bill, which we are coming to vote on today, nothing is included in the medium term. We're talking about your new insurance policy, which will hit again the young people and the young people of this country. The government outlines what happened during the health crisis as an external observer without presenting an account of its work. The first pages of the explanatory statement are consumed in your competitivity. The words ‘work’, ‘social’, ‘public health’ are missing. The medium-term framework is normally the country's strategy for the next three years. Yours, however, does not present any plans. The only thing that is certain is that even these inadequate support measures of society that you have taken because of the pandemic ends in 2022-2023. Everything ends without any provision for what will happen with accumulated debt, with difficulties in liquidity for households and businesses. And all this ends, although on page 21 of the Medium-term, it is stated that intensification of support measures in 2020 was an obstacle to the recession of around 7%. You are entitled retroactively to our proposals. You deserve us when we have argued since the beginning of the pandemic that greater state intervention and support reduces the risk of recession. Even the Bank of Greece points out that we need to avoid early withdrawal of the support measures, and yet you do all out. But you cannot buy half the argument and do the opposite. You tell us that support measures reached 41 billion and you are constantly talking about privatising support. From your medium-term in Table 18, we can see that the liquidity supply in 2020 has barely reached 8 billion and 11 billion in 2021. Even the promotional cost of the EOT is counted to allegedly end up with 41 billion dollars. In a recent study on the risks of the pandemic in 2020, the OECD notes that almost 80% of Greeks respond to the need for more or much more state intervention. But, well, this whole world didn't get the 41 billion you supposedly shared, nor did it see the EOT campaign? We have a medium-term wish, a account that says the government will bring normality and regularity in the next two years. But how is that going to happen? Your predictions are based on a motto of content gaps. You declare where they want to reach the sizes of the economy without supporting it somewhere. The forecast for growth is reshaped to 3.6% this year from 4.8% of the budget to 6.2% in 2022 and just over 4% in the coming years. Where are they based, Minister, all these scenarios? We're a little skeptical, as you can see, because you've been out on all your predictions since the beginning of the pandemic. You are now admitting that 2020 has had the third biggest recession in the Eurozone of 8.2%, for which you are fully responsible and, of course, you are responding to us that there are even worse. You anticipate high surpluses, reaching 2.8% in 2024 and 3.7% in 2025. What are the discussions with the European institutions? We wonder what attitude the Greek Government has taken to them? What is your position anyway, since now over-performance does not compress the Greek economy, as you were saying? You are talking about a financial adjustment of nine percentage points from this year to 2023, which we are returning to surpluses, which is presented as a return to normality. Do you not understand that you should inform the delegation and the citizens of what you are going to do? This is 16 billion. Will you cover everything you say from cutting back measures and tax evasions, which you have done during the pandemic? Will you also cover it from the explosive increase of 28% of tax revenue? What taxes, and where? What else are you telling us about the verification of your script? You tell us that investment will be running over the next few years at speeds, which we have never seen at the yearly real rate reach 30%. Has this happened somewhere before, Minister? Tell it to us to know. When has it happened before and where has this happened before? You say the Recovery Fund will contribute to growth. But the resources of the fund according to your plan are not directed to the majority of society. You are relying on increasing saving, you say, to increase private consumption. What savings, though, are we talking about? The one you admit in the medium term that it occurred in fear and uncertainty about the future, in fear of health, about the uncertainty at work? Finally, you are proposing a series of privatisations not from some exogenous pressure, but from your obsessive attachment to a worn perception of growth and the productive model, a productive model of the same forty years that has brought the economy to the state that brought it with the crisis of 2010. You're talking about privatization in water, electricity, pensions, health. All offered for profit! You do not support the primary sector despite the resilience shown by the medium-term. You forget that the health crisis has highlighted the boundaries of the private sector and the need for a strong public pillar. Use this juncture to apply extreme neoliberal policies. So here we have your latest legislation within the pandemic, which you start and implement. You implement the new bankruptcy code, you liquidate property, bring further elasticisation of employment relationships, the latest labour law is the Hatzidakis law. You know, however, that in Greece 16% of contracts are collective, while in the European Union the rate of collective agreements reaches 60%. Do we really wonder what the working world has to expect from you? What it has to expect from you except unpaid hours of endless work when yourself say that with so much growth the nominal average wage is expected to remain at 2019 level. We understand the historical gravity of the new age and weigh the questions that pandemic gave birth to. We have tabled proposals for health support. We have tabled proposals for relaunching the economy. We have tabled our proposals for the Recovery Fund, which you are dragging through, Minister, and we have tabled them not after our own internal processing, but after consulting society. We have tabled proposals for a new framework for labour relations a few days ago, which provides for young people and young people in this country to work less and be paid more. Our proposal, the SYRIZA proposal, aims to reduce inequalities. It is something that has been very much discussed lately. This is something your government has not seen so far. The increase in GDP in figures means nothing when it is not accompanied by an increase in the standard of living in society as a whole, when it is not based on a fair and modern productive model, but is based on knowledge, technology, business and, in particular, on small and medium-sized enterprises, on the basis of renewal, as well as on strengthening the single and universal social state, on fairer taxation, on restoring climate change. We are voting against the bill because it does not respond to the needs of society. We are voting against the proposals and we stand against you with society, with the youth that you have taken, with the youth that you have beaten and now you are trying to buy it. We're telling you your plan won't go any further. The future you build doesn't fit us all and its overthrow doesn't pass by your hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. Mr. George Arvanitides, special speaker from the Change Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I'm afraid the government, presenting the medium-term celebrates as if they found the stolen painting of Picasso. But in her joy and anxiety to present us with a message of great, green and rapid growth, this will collapse and fall out of her hands in the same way. Afraid of them, then. Especially after all that the budgetary crisis has broken, unfortunately, the New Democracy and SYRIZA seem as if they have not understood. SYRIZA, after his Memorandum and 81 billion with the obligation to reserve and other commitments, tells us that he somehow did it and packed up the finances. The government using this stock money and its easy access to credit promised growth, which will run at a certain rate in the coming years. So, of course, the serious debate about how to create a Greek, sustainable economy, kick the can and move the problem over the next few years. We now end up talking about the medium-term 2022-2025 with a compulsory and formal procedure in Parliament. Instead of agreeing with the productive bodies of the country, instead of saying clear truths to the Greek people, businessmen, to the Greek society about how difficult it will be for us to try to build another economy, we are simply leading to discussions and generalities with good intentions. You did the same, Minister, and the Recovery Fund for the project "Greece 2.0". And you make these choices in our view, because you do not want to highlight the purposes of your economic plan. It is of no particular value to know the numbers, as they are presented just every year for investments if we do not know what investments they are, when they will be made by which bodies. Only then will we know whether your macroeconomic and budgetary scenarios are realistic. Unfortunately, we cannot trust you and we cannot also make strict criticism when we see that predictions and assumptions are made, not so to draw up policies, but to form expectations and a positive climate in Greek society through self-aware expectations. We cannot criticise when we see a government constantly looking for excuses and not solutions. And I say this, because in the medium-term explanatory statement itself, the logic behind it is: 'You know, we do what we can'. 'What do you want us to do?'. However, differences in numbers, in relation to other European countries, have to do with the country's dependence on tourism and other things. And we do not say that it is easy to make stable predictions in such an unstable environment, but with what you describe in this medium-term, you are unfortunately presenting an illusion of regularity. We have an illusion of normality in the four main points you are presenting, both in the rate of growth and in the treatment of pandemic and in investments and in the issues of unemployment. In all this, which you've been doing for the last two years, you've just been setting up accounts. But let's see what you're talking about with this medium-term that you're presenting to us. Actually, you're telling us four things. Firstly, with regard to growth rates, you say that in the current year we will have 3.6% growth, in 2022, to get out of numbers, you eject it to 6.2%, and the rest of the years we will have an average growth rate of about 4%. Of course, who will be responsible if we do not achieve these objectives? Then we will find a thousand advances to say that we did not achieve it and that it was the pandemic, the social classes, the bad public, which cannot be effective. Of course, lasting inclination, as in all recent times, the pandemic. ‘Numbers do not come out’. 'What do we do?'. Unfortunately, that is the reality. I believe you invest a lot in the 6.2 spring for 2022. Of course, you're not going back to see what you've achieved so far. The country has had the third largest recession in the European Union of twenty-seven after Spain and Italy in recent years. The government has made the most expansive budgetary policy, but in the end it has had a disproportionately lower economic return from all countries. The argument about tourism is not convincing, since it shows that countries with great tourist dependence have done better than us. The ELSTAT table, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes, says that both Croatia and Portugal, with equally important training, had better results. It is clear that the allocation of resources could be done with a better targeting to achieve better results. If Mr. Stavros does not want to ask his Portuguese counterpart, because they are not like-minded, he may ask Croatian or Cypriot. How did these countries achieve better results at the same time? I put the table in the Minutes, which contains these figures. [[At this point the Member, Georgios Arvanitidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Nor should we forget that before COVID it had appeared that your Government was aiming at supporting the major and economic strengths of the market, believing, as always, in the mere view of things, that if resources were found and the market moves, we will have growth. Of course, the word 'development' and 'growth' always identify them. We all remember that this country for decades has spent too much money on Europe, but, unfortunately, we have not been able to achieve sustainable growth. Every time, our growth was dependent on the money we were throwing into the market. Unfortunately, even now that we are talking about, the government is unable to present a new draft strategy. We're all talking about a new productive model. What's that? Where's it going to grow? What are the areas and what are its plan to start measuring the results of the effort? Nor has it shown us any intention to renegotiate with Europe the heavy heritage of SYRIZA, the primary surpluses of 3.5%. He doesn't tell us what he's going to do with the mortgage of public property through the superstition for ninety years. Unfortunately, in the next 2022-2025 years, we will see the unfair mixture of tax policy, in particular, for the people's households established by the previous government and still today. And I am thinking of the relationship between indirect and direct taxes, which, according to the medium-term, will continue to grow. So let's see, too, for the pandemic. Whatever we've given, we've given. Mr. Adonis Georgiadis, in the clearest way he said that if we have a new wave, there is no money for support. Thirdly, you are telling us that with the new medium-term it will'rain' investments. Let us not forget that this was the main reason why the SYRIZA government lost the elections, beyond the narratives, which were not similar to its policy. It was unable to convince the Greek people that it was capable of bringing growth to the country and leading it to sustainable development. You two years, with the Greek bulldozers going in two weeks, how do you handle banking issues - I remind you of Piraeus Bank - are you satisfied that you have promoted things at this time that promise sustainable development in the country? A fourth key point in the mediumterm is the reduction of unemployment. Unemployment has not, however, deviated mainly because employment has increased, but because the population outside the labour force is growing. And we are not talking about all this, Minister, to only criticise it, but to see if you are really planning rationally. You in such a labour market, where the ladder between workers and non-active, closed sharply and returned to December 2014 levels, chose to institutionalise the unpaid ten-hour and the equation of overtime across all branches. Instead of promoting the employment of many of our fellow citizens, you are institutionalising the overemployment of those who remain on the labour market. And here is the main difference in our perception, but the distance and the dividing line, which separates the concepts of "progressive policy" and "new conservative policy". I think it has been mentioned in the Chamber before that the American President, Mr Biden,'pay more', is the recipe, which shows us that more serious countries than us, with much better policy, are choosing other ways of strengthening demand and promoting the sustainable functioning of their market. Even the Prime Minister's account of the greenest government, which is directing resources to achieving the climate targets for the green transition to the economy, is not, unfortunately, such a green one. If you look at the comparative data on the programmes of the other Member States, which have been submitted to the European Commission, you know that, with the best programme we have presented! - The New Democracy Government - it is our record - will channel 37% of the resources available to the Development Fund to the green transition. What did the other countries do? Slovakia channelled 42% of resources, Austria 59% of resources, Luxembourg 61% of resources, Denmark 59% of resources, Spain 49% of resources and Germany 42%. These are the realities of the programs that have been submitted. And it is not only the personal issue, which should be our own percentage, since we are starting from lower than Denmark or Austria, which are not of the same size as us, but also of quality, because the government's plan promotes a model that is ultimately dependent on imports and consumption. And this is confirmed by your narrative on page 39 of the explanatory statement to the 2021 budget, which states that net exports of goods are expected to decrease by 2.9 of GDP in 2021 due to a sharp increase in import goods, in the midst of investments, in construction and technology equipment. The money will therefore go back to those who finance us to promote growth in the country. The same way all these years in this country. Instead of supporting local production, we are strengthening the work of other countries, because the work of the citizens of other countries is how we buy. In the medium term, however, as well as in the project "Greece 2.0", it does not even appear to be possible to calculate, take account of this performance. Extension, no substances. In other words, there is a risk that a large part of public investment will have little added value in the Greek economy. So we will celebrate for 6% growth and for the nearest 4% in the next one, two years, but, ultimately, the Greek winemaker, farmer, craftsman, who is trying to export, will see his exports decreased. In order to assess this, however, in depth, we should have a real plan in detail rather than what you have submitted to the House, what you have, in fact, tabled to full growth in the European Commission. So we could make substantial criticisms and put forward ideas for you. You are also planning to mobilise some euro private expenditure for each euro public expenditure. There is no, unfortunately, evidence of how to achieve this and the prediction, in our view, is over-optimistic. Aggregating the resources of the Public Investment Programme and the resources of the Recovery Fund in the hypothetical, of course, scenario that they relate to purely gross fixed capital formation rather than other expenditure, are at best at 50%. The remaining difference must be covered by the mobilised resources, by the remaining private sector investments, but also by foreign direct investment, which in the middle of the last five years have been moving around 3 billion. It is clear that this objective is extremely difficult and is in doubt whether you can achieve it. Even if all public investments were made through partnerships or private-sector clauses, the clauses imposing one euro on the private money on each public-investment euro would be necessary. Worried and problematic, too, is that there is no provision to support local government that is a lever for growth. And I think that's where we should start to build another state. In the medium term, therefore, we see that over the five-year period the OTAs will only be strengthened with two and a half thousand young workers against thirty thousand, scheduled to the central administration. This is not how it becomes a 'final' state, nor does it change our perception of operation. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the New Democracy Government needs to create a rapid recovery account, which, unfortunately, is not based on a realistic basis. In every way you use every tool to serve this purpose. You want to create an illusion of regularity for the years ahead. It is true, of course, that the country has a very large package of funds in front of it, which is, unfortunately, the last, perhaps, an opportunity to set up a sustainable economy. However, in the coming years, 2022-2025, there are two very great risks to the Greek economy. Firstly, what I said before, that some of the expenditure, unfortunately, will be driven out of the Greek economy and will have little added value and, secondly, the return to reasonable austerity of absurd surpluses. The Government must clearly comply with the political forces of Europe, which are pressing for the provisions on surpluses of the Stability Pact to be abolished. It is unrealistic to expect that the correction of the surplus by 165% over a five-year period will be able to coexist with an increase in GDP of 26%. It is like saying that our country in the next few years will recover the lost income in the decades of the memoranda, of course exercising a conservative fiscal policy. How are you gonna get all this done? As an intention, of course, as always sounds wonderful. The results will be judged. The Change Movement calls on the Government to adopt our proposal to permanentize the Recovery Fund in Europe. The road to recovery will be extremely difficult. The plan 'Greece 2.0', unfortunately, as you have set it up, will lead us to a two-speed Greece. We are extremely sceptical about the objectives you set in the medium-term programme, which we are debating today. Most of all, however, we disagree with the main directions of your economic policy, which is why, of course, we are voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Friday 2 July 2021 at 9 a.m. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 893/25-6-2021 by MP Chania of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Paul Pavakis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The need for an extension of time schedules and the relaxation of suffocating conditions in agri-food and aid programmes". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 902/26-6-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Deputy Prime Minister, Theodore Livano, on the subject: "The poor relative and the ND government of Regional Television - directly and effectively measures are imposed in support of it." B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 905/28-6-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, entitled "A support measures for apiculture and the implementation of the aid programme for the beekeepers of Crete". The floor will now be taken by Mrs Diamanto Manolakou from the Communist Party of Greece. Here, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u14	Thank you. The government, as a pro-collegiate, philosopheric law - an abortion, has attempted the same thing with the medium-term framework of a fiscal strategy of 2022-2025, which provides for reactive restructuring at the expense of the working class and the public strata. So it presents it as a development vision. Except that the vision is unpopularly prerequisites in the name of the capitalist recovery of the economy, which strengthen business groups at the expense of the people and are summarised in the key areas as formulated by the European Commission: fiscal structure, labour market, healthcare, financial sector, business environment and others. Of course, both the Civic Opposition, SYRIZA, and the other urban parties are asking for more and earlier. So your vision is to open new profit margins for business groups. However, the account of billions of euros will be paid by the people through a new memorandum, with new chains of social rights and freedoms, and especially at the level of their lives that is worsening. They testify to the medium - term figures themselves that are witnessing. They state that it is cut and sewn for how the needs of capital will be met to develop their profitability. The expectations of the government and other urban parties that with brave support from the State and the European Union's Recovery Fund will relieve the capitalist system of their contradictions, dead ends and crises that they are paving the way for sustainable development from which the capital and workers will equally benefit, will prove to be a great conscious lie once again. The figures themselves therefore testify that the medium-term is both classic and unfair since, firstly, it ensures an additional financial space to finance the interventions in support of business groups through state budgets in conjunction with the bundle of disbursements from the European Union Recovery Fund, which will be paid by the people with more taxes. In other words, guidance and expenditure is in favour of investors and not of people's needs. Secondly, although it is described that a significant acceleration of the annual economic recovery rate is expected from 2022 to 6.2% with its maintenance close to around 4% on average in the rest of the medium term, the same does not apply to private consumption. Private consumption in GDP is expected to grow at a lower level in 2022 than in 2019, as opposed to investment participation. In fact, at the end of the medium-term, private consumption is expected to have been limited to only 6.5% of GDP, which is lower than in 2007. So, more unfavourable development for people's incomes. At the same time, the average annual rate of increase in nominal wage is projected to 2.4%, but the gradual rise in inflation is expected to reduce the average increase in real wages to 0.8%. Already the accuracy of the basic kinds of emergency reapes. Thirdly, the personal income tax takes off and in absolute sizes from 9.59 billion in 2021, to 12.6 billion in 2025. We're talking about a 32% increase. The depth of the crisis is not dubbed by urban policy in all its versions, and the account will be paid again by the workers, the popular layers, as the ten-year memorials paid for with wages and rights cuts, to regain the profitability of capital. The classicity of the civil state's policy is therefore confirmed. At the same time, the total state expenditure from 70,1 billion in 2021 is expected to compress to 63,8 in 2025, and after the withdrawal of the exceptional support measures taken in the context of the crisis will be restored by more targeted capital support operations. Fourthly, the reduction of the insurance contributions for the employer by three percentage points from 2021 and 2022 means a reduction in the non-wage costs for business groups and losses of the State budget by EUR 815 million per annum. Fifthly, the funds for health and education will be reduced in the ordinary budget, which proves the anti-grassroots character of the medium term, while the public budget project programme will be at the service and the investments of the business groups will be financed. A total of EUR 14.4 billion will be spent through the Public Investment Programme for projects financed by the Relief and Resilience Fund. That is to say, a total of four-year horizon and only from the part of the Public Works Programme will be attributed to the business groups EUR 42.5 billion - money with the sosula. They go to billions of euros and not to people's needs. The money will, of course, come from the budgets of the Member States and from loans guaranteeing the European Union against future receipts, which will be recharged to the people's backs in the form of own resources, increased national contributions and so on by 2058, when the relevant funds are planned to be repaid to the financial markets. This money, however, will not be made available for new ICUs, hospitals, doctors, school rooms or earthquake protection, teachers, media transport, wages or pensions, but will go to support capital. However, you cannot avoid the regime of increased uncertainty. We all know that we are in front of complex developments. We are living in a deep capitalist crisis, which has been strengthened by pandemic and there are many factors for unforeseen developments from the depth of the crisis, the fourth wave of pandemic, the forced households and self-employed, debt and others. Already the civil servants are confessing openly to their reports that they are coming back to bed and unemployment and that deficits, government debt and private debt, which are eroding because of business support measures, are reconverted into heavy rocks, preparing workers, thousands of self-employed people in the city and village that they are actually in shock and that they will pay to the end the state and other aid given to the capital and that, in the end, they will pay for it. So the European Union and urban governments manage the new capitalist economic crisis at the expense of the people and to the benefit of helping capitalist profitability. Moreover, at the general meeting of the Greek Industrial Association, the President of SYRIZA praised the resources of the Recovery Fund with the hard anti-grass-requirements, but also the other financed tools such as the NSRF, the Development Bank, the intervention in the banking system to strengthen the liquidity of enterprises and others, namely the support for the recovery of capital. In total, the rapporteurs of the other parties may criticise the fact that the figures are so optimistic, wishing, but they avoid saying about the orientation of resources, even if the sizes are smaller. They go clearly to the needs for investor profitability rather than the people's needs. You are in agreement with this and you are all supporting it with the shades that exist and you have voted against in the medium term. The rotten urban system is supported, with insignificant differences in urban management. Ultimately, all these measures - prerequisites for the capitalist crisis, i.e. the great state intervention, which applies to the European Union as a whole in conditions of fiscal expansion and monetary relaxation, are not a progressive turn in the European Union. It is simply a new version of a management form, which will lead to the reproduction of the same vicious circle of the capitalist economy, that is to say, it will shape the conditions for a new capitalist crisis to take place even deeper. These measures, therefore, do not question SYRIZA's Civic Opposition. On the contrary, you are walking on the same axes of urban planning for the next period. SYRIZA's "Green New Deal" programme is only one to see the look of Greece 2.0 and SYRIZA's "Green New Deal" programme focusing on the same sectoral priorities of the so-called "green digital transition" in the direction of the Euro-Union and international new green social agreement called "Green New Deal", in its anti-grassy character. Fairly, then, the 21st meeting of the JRC, which was completed five days ago in the analysis of developments in the domestic economy, says that there are currently two objectively conflicting intersectional development strategies on the basis of development, but for whom? For the monopolistic capital or for the working class and the folk? What authority and property do the people need? Development for what purpose, for profit or for covering labour folk needs? For, ladies and gentlemen, for us, progress on the working class is not the promotion of capitalist reforms to get capital out of the crisis. Progress for the people is to enter the struggle for overthrow, which will bring the satisfaction of modern popular needs with the release of the European Union and NATO, with working order in power. Progress is to strengthen the day-to-day fight against monopolies and governments by demanding the abolition of all anti-territorial laws, which they loaded him with the memorials, but also after them. Progress and the real new is the submission of the 'green' and digital technology to the scientific central design in the territory of social property and labour power, i.e. the social relationship, which allows the use of production means for the development and distribution of the workforce, according to scientifically established objectives for popular prosperity, by exploiting the new possibilities created by the modern era of the rapid scientific and technological development of the pass in the so-called fourth industrial revolution. Today these scientific possibilities significantly strengthen the physical basis, the physical potential to be replaced by social property. We believe that the new society of socialism and communism is the answer to the acute people's problems in the 21st century. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The working class, the popular layers have an interest in organising the struggle for their own modern needs. After all, they produce wealth and must be tasted rather than condemned to poverty, insecurity and uncertainty. We are therefore voting against the medium-term, because it is at the expense of the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u15	Mr Vassiliardos, the special speaker from the Greek Solution, has the floor. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the first committee we said that last year we constantly asked for an interim budget to be tabled, as an example of the much richer Germany, which does not want to go to the unknown on a boat of hope, as Greece is used to. The reason was that domestic and international data had been completely changed, so the existing budget was for garbage. Unfortunately, we were not heard, so Greece in 2020 was walking to the blind, thus launching its 'twins' deficits and 'twins' debts upwards. Obviously there was no budgetary diversion, despite the opposing assurances from the government. The medium term is now also a kind of interim budget of 2021, noting that the previous one, which was tabled a few months ago, is again for garbage. For example, forecast growth has fallen to 3.6% for 2021 from 4.8% in the budget, while government measures have increased, many of which are waste, such as the scandalous provision of hypothetical gains to "FRAPORT" and "Athens International Airports" of over 300 million euros. Because now the government has often used populism to ask whether we consider the support of the Greeks to be wasted, despite the fact that we are talking about other measures, such as the 300 million that I said above, but we will mention the following example: We are hypothetically asking if we consider it wasted to give the EUR 1,000 to his unemployed child. Our answer is that obviously not, as long as he tells him that the 1,000 euros are with borrowers who will be asked to pay them back to the multiplier. Also, how it might be better for his child to be able to make up for EUR 500 by finding an extra job in another sector, such as the primary importing of workers, so that he does not lose his home later because of his debts. In fact, it is not wasted to recruit another thirty-five thousand civil servants, as stated in the medium-term, when they have already increased by a hundred thousand compared to 2014, how much more so when it is falsely stated that for every one who is fired one will be hired? Is it a liberal policy to increase the state even greater? Noting that, for everything we are saying, we have already submitted documents to the committees, especially as regards the government's triumphs for a future investment explosion and GDP rise, we will draw attention to this simple example: When something is reduced from ten to five and then it is increased from five to six, then the increase is certainly 20%, but without, of course, covering the previous collapse. Continuing, our forecast of the growth rate of 2021 was about 4.5% two months ago, after the collapse of 2020, as well as the cumulative of all the years of the memorandum, which did not happen in the other countries of the European Union. However, when the 'Delta' variant appeared, and in particular the decisions of certain countries, such as Australia's recently, to impose again hard lockdown, we began to doubt it. The main reason is that in our forecast we had not included any lockdowns, while tourism was involved with about 50% of revenue in 2019, stressing that we never agreed with lockdowns, i.e. locks, which cost 3-4 billion monthlys, finding from the United States and elsewhere that they have no effect on health while completely destroying the economy. Is it possible, then, to vote for a medium-term, which has not taken into account these risks, with which we unfortunately need to learn to live in the future? Should we not find a solution so that our economy does not depend to such an extent on tourism, especially because of the forecasts for more pandemics, but also because of our wrong tourist model that destroys our infrastructure without corresponding benefits? Furthermore, it is not only the 2021 budget, but also the medium term, since, apart from the numerical errors, which we have shown in the committees, even the GDP accounts do not agree with the most recent elements of ELSTAT. In addition, only a few months ago a general government deficit of EUR 11.5 billion had been budgeted, and it is now rising to EUR 16.9 billion. Would anyone really tolerate it, ever by the manager of his building, how much more when he had to borrow again to cover it? Especially with regard to the evolution of unemployment, the list has exceeded every record with the medium-term forecast for reducing it to 11% in 2025. Reminds Mr. Venizelos' forecast in 2012 of a debt reduction in GDP with the help of the PSI to 120% in 2020, and finally formed over 205% and the lending over 227%. In relation to the next wish list with the GDP growth table, we could easily present the government or the Greeks with any scenario, even a scenario that would provide for the debt to be zeroed. However, the question is not the scenarios but their implementation, the criterion of which cannot be the future but the past. In this regard, when did Greece manage at the same time to increase investment by a two-digit percentage per year, to increase tax revenue despite the reduction in rates, to reduce deficits by turning them into surpluses, without the imposition of fiscal measures - that is to say - to reduce debt interest in spite of the increase in loans and to lower the debt ratio in terms of GDP? If you tell us at some time in the past that has happened, that is, all of what we have said - all together - we will be happy to believe it. Otherwise, it's impossible. The only way to achieve this is to speed up the process of changing the country's property regime by selling out the public property, by offering private auctions, and by providing land and water to investors as an example of ELDORADO GOLD, "FRAPORT" and so on. The only way Greece could possibly have these growth rates, but a growth that would not benefit Greeks at all but the new owners of the country. In any case, of course, our vision, the vision of the Greek Solution, is not a country with casinos, with drugs - reminding us of the draft law on cannabis - with illegal immigrants, with increased crime and with guarded resorts for rich foreigners, who will serve impoverished Greeks and poor immigrants with hunger wages. Such a vision we don't have. In particular, with regard to the 'SURE' programme, which is also financed with loans, the Government does not understand that it only works for industry because there is quality know-how and lifelong employment - in industry we mean - and we are well paid. Tourism is almost no use at all, since know-how is not required, whereas with EUR 534 and under uncertainty young people prefer to leave abroad in order to be able to survive decently, unfortunately. Now in relation to the issue of cash reserves, we have documented dozens of times that the famous pillow was and is non-existent, since the money is committed by the ESM and the repos. Why really does the mockery of all of us go on? What's it good for? Very well, after all, the Minister for Development, who can do many cubic times but is honest, said yesterday that there are no more money, so if the pandemic comes in winter, as he said, Greece will end financially. Those were his words. In relation to the general government's results, a deficit of 2021 and 2022-declarations means damage, of course - as well as a primary surplus from 2023 to 2025 by 2%, 2.8% and 3.7%, it will be more than difficult to carry out them, demanding another tough memorandum, the fifth in turn. We note here that there are EUR 30 billion in extra revenues in the period 2022-2025 from income taxes and VAT in relation to those in 2021, which is, of course, a criterion for GDP growth. What will happen, however, if we follow a next lockdown and last for the pandemic? With regard to deficits, should tourism officials be reintroduced, since there is probably not going to be anticipated tourism, should it not be taken into account the potential inflationary pressures internationally, as can be seen from increases in container fares, from raw materials, in Greece from imported, unfortunately, feed, from an increase in electricity costs and so on? What happens if companies go bankrupt and do not pay much of the repayable advance, as well as tax extensions? Are there alternatives, 'project B', or are we then relying on our funding from the European Central Bank, where EUR 37 billion has already been spent on EUR 26 billion, EUR 27 billion? Until when will the Germans finance us and in what way? As far as investment is concerned as the magical medicine of development - although it concerns only foreigners and domestic oligarchy, which is prepared to suck off the money of the Reconstruction Fund and the NRP - the objective is obviously to disorientate from the monumental failures, as well as the government in the two disastrous years of its term of office, similar to the ones of 2004-2009, with the well-known conclusion of bankruptcy. In any case, no production is foreseen at the level of the central design, such as electric car, although the project is mentioned, but without any amounts. In this regard, if at least EUR 10 billion per annum is not made available by the Public Investment Programme for clean domestic investments, as well as if banks are not persuaded to finance Greek small and medium-sized enterprises - obviously they have learned to save themselves with the money of the Greeks, so they have no reason to take such risks - Greece will never develop sustainablely, in the interest of, that is, the Greeks. Indeed, it is true that the banks are claiming that only 5% - just 5%! - of about seven hundred thousand Greek companies, that is, only thirty-five thousand, are they worthy? If it really is, what measures will you take? Further, in public debt and in its viability. It is expected to rise to 204,8 % of GDP in 2021, as well as to decrease to 156,9 % in 2025, which of course depends on developments in GDP and deficits. Strangely enough, however, the tenth evaluation is predicted at 191.6% in 2024, while in the medium term at 166.1%. How is that possible? Could another picture be given outwards and another inwards for party purposes? As far as its cost of financing is concerned, the 10th assessment, i.e. interest, in 2021, 2022 and 2023, is far higher than the 15 % of GDP sustainability threshold, and in the medium to long term, only interest is mentioned. Why is it true? Where are the debts? Aren't there? Continuing to the guarantees of the public at EUR 10 billion, this is obviously a new method of invisible debt and funding, as is the case with the repos which is out of control, having well over EUR 1 trillion a year. They include the "HRAKLIS" project, and they form an indirect financing of banks, as well as the pandemic bridge programmes, since everything is fixed in banks or funds. How many more times will the banks be strengthened by the Greeks? How many of these guarantees will be suppressed and how will they be covered? On the big issue now of immunisation, where total revenues for 2011-2025 are estimated at EUR 12.7 billion from EUR 50 billion expected at the beginning of EUR 12.7 billion, at first they said of EUR 50 billion! - while all of these are recorded as investments, the most unacceptable is the intention to privatise the water, for which international wars are currently taking place, despite the fact that it was characterised by a unanimous decision as unconstitutional by the S.H.E. This means that any government that tries to do this will obviously be faced with justice. Finally, the term "change of the production model" appears only once in the Medium term, on page twenty-nine, without even being analysed, which means that it is used in a pretext like many other reports by the government. What change in the production model, though, is it mentioned when it continues to regard tourism as a heavy industry, instead of providing cheap services, when prices in our hotels have collapsed, while, most obviously, it is not revenue but profits, when the Greeks have become Europe's impoverished wardrobes, with our young people massly leaving the country? In 2020-2021 only EUR 183 million was allocated to the primary sector with the measures of the pandemic. We're talking about just 183 million euros! How much more, when food adequacy is today due to intense inflationary pressures! There's a lot of mistakes and a lot of questions. So logically, we're voting against the bill, well as always. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u17	We shall conclude the speech by Mr Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis from Mera25, which is also called for in Step. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Members, MPs, Minister, as we have stressed from the outset, first of all here we are talking about returning the privatisation of HSY and HSH, of water, when the second decision of the Council of State is known. Let me remind you, Minister, that the first decision annulled the transfer of the Samara Government - water Venizelos to TEAD and the second of the SYRIZA Government to transfer the water to the excess. And here you come to commit once more the country to privatising water. Finally, it is clear that the decisions of the Council of State concern you only when they make oil your own gifts to the various entrepreneurs, i.e. when they justify and allow the various projects to continue. When it's negative, you just don't take them into consideration. But we see that, beyond gifts to entrepreneurs, you have many gifts for the citizens here too. In the medium term, what we are discussing today, you are not even planning to impose EUR 10 billion on new taxes by 2025! Of course, you don't generally put the taxes on them. You have them very well focused over there that will hurt the economically weakest, women and men. So, as a first-year economic student knows, the indirect taxes are those that disproportionately affect the poor. So these indirect taxes, you are planning with what you are calling on us to vote, to increase them by 22%, from 25.9 billion in 2021 to 31.7 billion euros in 2025. Of course, you also increase taxes on natural persons in general, by 32%. Natural persons are citizens and not businesses. You are therefore raising the revenue from taxes by 32%, from EUR 9.5 billion to EUR 12.6 billion. And how can you not increase taxes when you commit yourself to unreasonable surpluses? Let's remind you that the SYRIZA memorandum bound us with 2.2 billion to 2060, you committed yourself to 3.7 billion primary surplus in 2025. Minister, where is Mr Mitsotakis who said he would negotiate the primary surpluses? I do not know, even Mr Stavros, who is absent from all the discussions on the subject, where is he going to tell us what happened to this negotiation? Did you go to the Europeans and negotiate? Did you go and make a big deal? You were asked for a surplus of 8 billion, and you brought it to 3.7 billion? Tell us what's happened. I guess we'd better talk to you. You didn't make any negotiation. As the article in "ECONOMIST" recently describes, you have become the very good child of Europe saying "yes" to everything. We don't. Even ECONOMIST says so. You have turned into the good child of Europe. While Hungary and Poland, in violating the fundamental principles of the European Union, "go oil" and have no impact, Greece does not negotiate the reduction and ending this disgrace, the economic suffocation of the primary surpluses. It does not negotiate the sharing of refugee care. There's nothing going on. Of course, you are not negotiating with the mighty. When it comes to weak citizens, there's no good kids at all. There you are clearly strong. Serve oligarchic interests over and over again. There is also an expression to our people about this behavior. While you will make this budgetary adjustment that goes beyond any other memorandum, and while you are increasing taxes above previous memoranda, you are also describing an increase in GDP which is funny. You are telling us that this year will increase GDP to 3.6% and you are counting - to substantiate this view, for now, in the text you submitted a few days ago and which binds the country for the next five years - that tourism will rise and reach 50% of 2019, to 15 million. There is no businessman in tourism who shares it, given that when you submitted it the new krone wave was known, the lockdowns that have begun and spread to the world and how this affects tourism in Greece. At the moment, any reservations are constantly followed by cancellations, even at the most important tourist destinations. When a hotelier has reservations for July and August, he really has no idea whether he will have visitors in July and August. And you're talking with fake numbers. Public revenue figures, very realistic revenues in taxes and surpluses. You're bringing us a dystopia. To make it clearer, you're bringing us a memorandum. We've started to name the memos differently. We do "creative baptism" of the memorials. SYRIZA said it "reinforced surveillance". How are you gonna say that? Is it the medium term? Of course, it is a text from which an attack comes from the beginning to the end. You welcome that we had as a country less recession in the first quarter of 2020 and say that this shows how excellent the economy was on the basis of the policies of the Mitsotakis Government. At the same time we all know that in the first quarter of 2020 we were not exposed to the coronary, we had a very small exposure to the coronary in relation to the rest of Europe, for exactly so few contacts with China. The exhibition was made with your own political choices, when you chose to open the country in tourism without any measure, with an EVA algorithm that had not been exposed to the international scientific community, it had not been passed by a scientific journal. You were attracted, because it allowed you to be obedient, obey the orders of the great multinational tourism, which told you that "if you put measures on us, we don't come to Greece". And you opened the country without any measure in practice and we have reached so many thousands of families in this country mourning our fellow humans. Of course, when we go to the cost of the epidemic in GDP as a whole for 2020, beyond the rest, we see that this is far beyond the European average. And, of course, in order to avoid being justified in Mera25, and Yiannis Varoufakis, when he told you that it would be the recession from 10% to 15%, ELSTAT did a terrible "tachtygick". You revised the 2019 GDP, reduced it by over 4 billion. But you didn't get that. Then you also reduced the GDP of '18, '17, '16-15' you kept it stable - of '14, '13, '12, '11, '10. Really, what were the new data on ELSTAT for 2010? We really live a theater of irrationality here. You succeeded with all this not to see the decline in nominal GDP, which is practically 10%, and not to see how huge the distance from the European average is. You will not show it in the numbers, only the citizens will feel in their pockets will the people who are saying that they will not be able to open their business again, the citizens who lose their homes, the citizens who are closing their businesses through their returnable advances, small businesses who, through the bankruptcy code, lose their homes, which, through your unthinkable hard politics, do not forgive the tax and insurance burdens of companies that go bankrupt in the pandemic. All of these feel the tragic effects of your policies. And, of course, now that people are weak, you are giving it the favorable shot with the job, the insurance, the bankruptcy, with the "HERAKLI". Because you want small and medium-sized enterprises and the self-employed to close, because it is an obstacle - and you have said it again and again - to you and the interests with which you identify small entrepreneurship. It disturbs you that in Greece 90% of public revenue and insurance contributions come from small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. And what you have not managed to do with the memorials you hope to do now with everything you have done and with the pandemic. I really believe in the demon of the citizens of this country that they will be able to disprove you once again, that they will succeed in denying your plans again, which include the Recovery Fund, which gives 43 billion and put the very few, at the same time as the small and medium-sized ones will give 1,5 billion. And who? To those who have the right to receive a loan from the banks. With SYRIZA you have legislated with SYRIZA to simplify the authorisations for new businesses to give money and simplified procedures to the five interests of foreign and Greece that want to concentrate the economic activities on their hands. Because this is your essential plan. At the same time you have given them - both parties - the gates of the country, the existential infrastructure, the monopolies of the country, the tools for any planning of development and the future. These people are exempted from any business risk, whether called "FRAPORT", which you gave it 178 million last week for for foregone profits, as the company itself calculated, whether they are called "motorways" that you have made, whether called "ENERGEAN", or called "AGEAN", or anything. And it's "time", from what we learn, the businesses that ask for a corresponding treatment from your Ministry. The privatisations you invoke and you come to privatize up to water, PPC, the networks, will not only become a beer but we will also pay upwards. We will not pay indirectly, we will pay directly through various kinds of clauses and subsidies that you are considering and are constantly applying. I'll try to keep the time. I shall confine myself to one more point. You're constantly talking about cheap lending. You forget the international situation, you forget the takeover problem from the European Central Bank, you forget the insecurity that causes citizens to run on bonds in general, worldwide, and you also forget how low interest rates are in the US and elsewhere. Once interest rates in the United States rise because of inflation, the situation in Greece will become difficult in terms of lending and you will find new justifications to impose additional memorandum measures. That is why we are now asking you to consider, go and negotiate the elimination of any primary surplus, as you have promised, to stop the tax rally, as you had previously promised, that you would withdraw the bankruptcy, withdraw the "HRAKLE", forgive the tax and insurance burdens on the people whose businesses are shut down because of the coronary, that is to say, to do the self-evident thing to strengthen our economy right now. And, of course, bring us a medium-term with real elements, which may have a chance of being implemented. And not to be once again like the budget, which we were telling you was inappropriate and we saw that it was inappropriate as you brought a clear and secret budget change about a month ago. We invite you to do the self-evident thing. We urge you to stop the bankruptcy of Greek citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u19	We're gonna cut off the directory stream. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, who will take the floor. We will continue after the list of four colleagues, Mr. Ypsilant, Mr. Mamoulakis, Ljupi, and Mr. Loverdos. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to praise you for one thing. I think that of the hundred and fifty-eight Members, but also the extra-parliamentary ministers of the New Democracy, you are the most honest and honest. I hope the Minister listens to me, no more, we're playing him. He's the only one who said there's no money and we can't find it. For months. And he said one truth, but one truth that is the result of the bad choices made by the government and all the governments that have not changed the structure of productive reconstruction, because the country does not produce wealth and produce only debts. I would therefore like to tell you, Minister, that every man, every politician, every Member is entitled to make a mistake. Only a fool can continue to insist on wrong, and you, unfortunately, continue to make mistakes. I do not call you fools, but I call you at least not serious and correct in conducting economic policy. And this is not just about the present government, it refers to all the governments that have passed through this Parliament. I am saddened by today's picture of Parliament. We said months ago as a Greek Solution that we need a new medium-term, new budget because the previous one has been derailed. You did it months later and the political leaders are gone. I'm really ashamed the political leaders aren't here. It is a budget that the government is tabling. It's a budget! It is economic policy for the next few months, based on what he tells us. And instead of the political leaders here - Mr. Tsipras unrepentant going to Skopje at a forum, it is more important than the Skopje Forum for them, the shameful political agreement of the Ambassadors respects it unrepentantly, like the New Democracy - the political leaders are absent. The Prime Minister has gone to Drama tour. It is more important than the budget to go to Drama, while the situation in Greece is dramatic. It is incredible what is happening with the civilian staff. Go out to the world and say we discuss the budget today and the Prime Minister is missing. The leaders of the political parties are missing. Now, I am sure there is an agreement between the three, at least - and I denounce it here, this is not the first time that this has happened - old parties of power. The Skopje Forum cannot be more important than a budget. Drama is not more important at this stage of the budget. He could have gone tomorrow morning. Unless it's Friday, Saturday, Sunday the Prime Minister goes to Chania. I'm saying! Because I got him last weekend going to Chania. I was returning from Kos and Kalymnos from tour and he went to Chania. His right, his human choice to rest, but when you have a budget, because it's a budget, you have to be here to justify what you're saying, because everything that's recorded in what you've brought is lame. You're constantly making mistakes. Wrong first. The deficit is growing day after day in dizzy, at a rate of uninterruptedness, and you promise growth. How when you increase deficits will you bring growth? The government budget deficit of 10.8 billion in the first five months. -15% of the trade balance last quarter. Listen a little to understand what trade balance means, if your parties understand that from '74 until today you have destroyed a country's number one tactic to have adequate and self-sufficiency of goods. When you have a commercial balance deficit, it means you're importing. It means you're out of exchange. It means that you need to find ways to ensure that these imports do not continue to exist and unfortunately exist. We're a country where her children's milk is importing it. We are a country where the meat we eat, the Greek souvlaki, is imported from the Netherlands, Germany, Denmark. Which country are you talking about? And all this means increasing our public and external debt. That's the first mistake. The second mistake. You are telling us that we are going well when we are in third countries first in debt. Over 200% worldwide. We're the country with the greatest debt in the world. Greece has the third highest debt ratio in terms of GDP in the world! This is what you have achieved, gentlemen of SYRIZA, gentlemen of the New Democracy, gentlemen of the Change Movement, all missing. They've been out of here for a lifetime. They're gone! With 205% of our country is a breath behind Sudan. Sudan, do you hear that? From Sudan to debt. Of course, back from the Japan Champion with 257%, but with some asterisks for Japan. Japan has 4% VAT. He's bought American state bonds. It produces products which we, of course, do not - most importantly - have a surplus in its trade balance. That means he has a chance to reduce the debt. What is the hope of New Democracy? How will the debt be reduced? Tell us and leave the fake numbers you change every month. Tell us how to reduce our debt? Where? From the tornados you put in the wind turbines? Even now you're unrepentant and you and PASOK - a change movement that's always missing. Third mistake with the PSI. They're all invoking the PSI. PSI murdered the insurance funds, murdered the economy. I can't hear the PSI has reduced our debt and I hear ministers say it on your channels. You've done it NW "SCAI", NW "STAR", all channels are in favour of the New Democracy. Now they've been pulling out Tsipra more lately. Their right is, we're not interested in your systemic channels anyway. Now listen to what you've done. Of course, the debt with the PSI was reduced by EUR 51.3 billion, but the banks that we recapitalised with EUR 44 billion were bankrupt. Do the arithmetic, guys, plus, except it's, do it. Plus 15 billion off a deferred tax. Who are you telling? I am disturbed, because I speak as an entrepreneur to you the New Democrat Members I very much appreciate your struggles, as are the rest of you, or if you like, about all of what you feel is happening but you cannot speak. Because I know New Democracy MPs who are suffocating from what's happening. Fourth mistake. With the paper bill, you murdered the job. Why? What happens in Europe? Sweden: Eight hours work becomes exotic with the same pay. France: Prohibition of labour after six o'clock in the afternoon. You can come to Greece two hours in the morning, two hours in the afternoon, three hours in the evening, one hour after one. Switzerland: Resolution on a minimum wage of EUR 3,500. In Greece, the minimum wage is EUR 300 with 57% unemployment. It's 300 euros. Go live with 300 euros! Here are colleagues who are never in Parliament and who are normally paid for their wages. So, what do we talk about now? And here's where the other guy can live at 300 euros? How to live, you tell me. Fifth mistake. You have never erased the loans of the Greeks, but you have deleted loans from others, canals, bond loans, a man who is taking a casino lately, Mr. Piladakis, where you have deleted his debt of 90%. Why? You tell me. And now they're putting on some other strange guys to get his casinos. Are you serious? Is that a government? I won't tell you about the loans you owe, but why seize the Greeks' house? And I'm not talking about the crook who never pays, usually the crooks owe a lot of money. He who owes 10,000 euros, 20,000 euros is a person who doesn't have to pay, because he doesn't have a job. He doesn't have to eat! I will not say that our debt is up to 380 billion. When you have GDP of 168 billion, the numbers don't come out. Fifteen Dogs to bring me here, it's just arithmetic. No matter how much you make fun of the world, the numbers don't come out! And instead of seriously planning an economy, you are missing the budget today and the Prime Minister and the others. Aren't we a little embarrassed? Sixth mistake. Then literally follow the doctrine of Pissaridis. If you read the doctrine Pissaridis says: We save only the great, our own, and our donors. That's what the Pissaridis doctrine says. But not the smaller ones, the smallest ones. For decades you have made an economy based on the doctrine of small and medium-sized enterprises and let small and medium-sized enterprises collapse financially without borrowing. That's economic racism. Seventh mistake. You only support the big ones. You want proof? I won't just tell you the story about "LAMDA", with the Greek, the transfer of the shares with air unbroken to denouncing Latsis, I won't tell you that. You gave him a huge amount of money for 300 million euros. He's got loans, he's got a guarantee, he's got a bunch of stuff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u21	First dose...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u22	Let go, Mr. Admiral, let go! You are the shame as a party of Constantine Karamanlis, with what you do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u23	It's 957...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u24	Listen, I'm telling you, and I don't want a vacation from anyone. You are the shame, in fact, of the continuity of the Prespecies and The Hague Agreement. To end the story. That's how much I was being polite. Seventh mistake. Especially for the Greeks, Mr. Viliardos has analysed them here excellently. And if you don't know how to take care of you. You should invite him to tell you exactly the numbers, so you don't want to say what you want here. Now listen. Another mistake. Eighth. Protection from creditors at 'FRAPORT' do you want, in 'AEGEAN' do you want? I get it. Mousenides "spreaded" 300 million checks throughout Halkidiki, and here are the colleagues, Mr Karaoglou and the others from northern Greece. EUR 300 million of a'standard' charge. Why was ELLINAIR not supported and has only been supported by AEGEAN? He didn't even get one euro. It's called a "standard" of 300m euros, and the others have taken it, the hotel owners, the accommodations, the shops. Why does the government not do something to support this story, why does Halkidiki collapse, Macedonia collapse? You will tell me that the name "Macedonia" was given to the Skopje. Are you interested in Halkidiki? Well, let's get a little serious, not to say things that don't work out. Ninth wrong. "You killed" PPC. What did Mr Hatzidakis say here on 16 September 2020? "Having moved on to the rescue of PPC, we are now moving towards the liberalisation of the electricity market to bring prices down," he told us. Good. "We will be indifferent to the reactions," says Mr. Hadjidakis, the special man of special executions and missions. 28-6-2021: The current value is announced. Greece increased by 36%. Has Hajidakis resigned? Oh, no. We are the most expensive in Europe in power. Why? Why do you have to put on the windshields and these weird forklifts? You have filled Greece with wind turbines. The Hatzidakis statement is here, I'll testify to it in the minutes of the House. Tenth mistake of the New Democracy. You want, he says, growth. But, without energy, development does not exist, ladies and gentlemen. If a country does not have energy, it cannot have growth. Do we understand that? It is falsifying to develop without energy. Mr. Dendias goes to Saudi Arabia and says Greece does not want natural gas, which is also ecological, as an energy item. Who's Mr. Dendias who doesn't want gas? Who anointed this country's Prime Minister to say we don't want gas? At the same time, the price of gas has been rising since then. Mrs Bakoyannis goes after saying that in thirty-five years we won't need oil. Well, I don't know. How old is Mrs Bakoyannis? I'm 55. In thirty-five years, I'll be 90, I don't know if I'll live. Our children, however, will live. You have no right to say 'I don't want gas and I don't want oil', as if we are Saudi Arabia or a country that has enormous wealth. We reach the point now and the price of lignite rises vertically worldwide. The evidence is here. I'll testify to the Minutes. The lignite the Prime Minister canceled with a statement to work on German wind turbines in an interview with Germany. It's criminally the mistakes you make. Eleventh mistake. Empty in “ bubbles” dangerous. Aerial parks, photovoltaics, etc. According to the largest energy agency, the wind energy industry will be producing two hundred and twenty-five thousand tonnes of waste by 2030. They will occupy a significant place in the already saturated landfills of the planet. wind turbines are complex, non-recyclable, toxic, non-ecologically managed, their combustion releases toxic air into the atmosphere. With the end of their life limit after twenty years, they finally remain shells of iron, without an institutional framework for eco-management. I will testify to this study, because there is another study. Listen. The countries of northern Europe have identified the dangers of toxic waste and are sent to landfills, but in African countries and you are filling Greece with wind turbines to make us an African country. We won't let you. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Here's the study. I'll deliver it to whoever wants it. It's also from Harvard University for photovoltaics that they're polluting and toxic. Is there a more good teacher than a whole university working on energy, that of Harvard? I am not talking about the Prime Minister, because a specialty was taken by the Prime Minister in Harvard, as many scientists in here - I imagine - have a specialty. The university spoke the same way, and here I will testify all the studies in the Minutes to find out the whole truth. Harvard and study of polluting wind turbines to stop the fairy tale. Why are you doing this? To work with your five elite best friends here in Greece who have wind turbines, your five shipowners, grandparents, who are named by wind turbines and photovoltaics. That's the truth. And you're giving 12 billion from the Recovery Fund to work Germany's economy, not the economy of Greece. We have to be ashamed. Photovoltaics. Harvard, business review. ‘Organizational nightmare of photovoltaic toxic wastes’. Well, what can I tell you? "The solar collectors create fifty times more waste than the forecasts and many of them are toxic." I'm saying all this because I have a whole analysis here - it's too long, I'm going to get past it - to go to the twelfth mistake. But you do, but you do. So what did New Democracy achieve in the field of energy? While it promised to restructure PPC and reduce the market price, it freed the market by giving private individuals. What happened to that friend of yours, Milion? Do you remember him? Florus - Milionis, 'ENERGA', what was it called? He was drinking champagne in Mykonos with some girls. 200m euros. Some people smile, but that's the way it is. He's been released. He returned a sum, said an apology, took the rest and ate it. I don't have anything with the man. Let's do his job as he thinks. I'm interested in what we do. Let him do whatever he wants, but he can't make fun of the Greek people, steal his money and play a little bit. And now he's coming in? Listen, gentlemen, what you voted for. I hear the gentleman's in the cannabis, he's becoming a great cannabis businessman. I'm talking about knowing what you're doing. The symptom, the symptom. The third mistake: you have freed the market - it says - by giving it to individuals. He closed the lignites, while Germany is a lignite champion. Confuse the wind turbines, hired Golden Boys to PPC, who take 200-300 thousand euros a year and increase the electricity by 36%. Is that a success? Here's the evidence, I'll testify to these in the Minutes. Fourthly, you consider, without a plan, the tourism industry. You're making a criminal mistake. Tourism is not industry. Understand it at last. From 1974 until now, you have been talking about industrial tourism. When eight out of ten hotels don't serve Greek product, then you have trouble understanding the obvious. They're imported. What is consumed in hotels is imported, so there is no industry, we do not have production. I would stress something you have not understood, namely that tourism is dangerous, it is a multi-cyclical sector of the economy. I imagine that Mr. Skoplakis knows what a multicyclical sector means, since when there is growth, tourism is also growing. When there is no growth and there is a problem with market supplies, who will feed you? The windmill air? Oh, no. The farmer, the farmer, the fisherman can feed you. Understood. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Fifteenth mistake. In declines the importance of a government's choice on the basis of revenue and profits rather than the number of customers, and I am referring to tourism. For example, with ten million tourists, Portugal has the same tourist turnover as Greece with twenty-five million. You are also forgetting that the twenty-five million tourists who give us the same euro as Portugal, of ten million are inflaming infrastructure and drinking water and washing them, which means that we also consume goods which are valuable. So prefer ten million tourists to bring you 100 euros than five hundred million tourists to bring you 100 euros. We're just telling you. If you don't have a plan, we'll deliver it to you. We have a whole study of how all this can be done, a whole book of three hundred pages. I've told the Prime Minister, I'm saying it again, I'm shouting. Okay. Sixteenth wrong. You're putting tolls everywhere. At the Propaganda toll before you leave Greece why are we paying for it? You tell me. How is he going to export the animal's livestock products? You pass by Promachona and then she has tolls. The farmer who wants to carry his products, the farmer, the company why pay more tolls? Because it is quite simply with the continuous tolls that the transport costs are increasing, which are moving to the price of the product. How much simpler can I just say? Don't you even understand that? To call the "AUTOKINTRROMOS AEGEAN S.A.", the interconnected company, your friend, to denouncing now the "EK TERNA" fights each other with "MYTILINE" for the Ennaia Street and they're killed and you don't know what to do? The tolls will either be abolished or gone into the pocket of the Greeks, not the oligarchs. It's over and out. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Seventeenth mistake. You never supported the primary sector. Have you seen the feed? There are colleagues from the province. Have you seen where the feedingstuffs have gone, where the prices are up? The farmer sells 15 minutes corn to the dealer and buys it with 26. See a difference. I'm telling you numbers. You're spreading allowances to illegal immigrants. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, because you keep lying to the Greek people, I read your site, the parapolitika.gr. "Macedonia bomb on the economy," says the parapolitika.gr of Mr. Marinakis and Mr. Kurtakis, in which all the Neo-Democratic ministers are paying attention. ‘Timebomb timely approvals of asylum applications. As long as the number of immigrants is growing geometrically, our country continues..." - hear - 'give money from the state budget'. They charge the state budget, says your site. When you give asylum, you are obliged, you obligate Greece to pay money. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMBROYLIS]] Benefits: What are these? Your site parapolitika.gr. You don't read that either? So listen. Child benefit, birth allowance, residence allowance in Greece, benefits in Greece - OPECA, etc. - minimum guaranteed income. All benefits are received by illegal immigrants who become immigrants. And you give it to me. But not you, the state budget. Stop the story of the European Union, then. And the feeding is about the country's state budget. Housing allowance. Tens of hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants are taking millions of euros. What do we say? First Greece, first to take the Greeks, and if I can give the others. That's our qualitative difference. We do not say 'only', we say 'first'. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So there are a lot of benefits. Read to parapolitika.gr. Seventeenth mistake: Greece is the 20th country in danger of water shortages. Repeat, water shortage! One of your biggest crimes is going on now. You are trying to sell the world's best water, the Greek water! Don't do that! It's a crime! Water is good, it's not a product. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Eighteenth mistake, the impunity. You have made a government that is above God and above righteousness. Is it possible to amend Article 19 yesterday on insurance for those who play the Greeks' pensions on the Stock Exchange? Aren't you embarrassed? Irrefutable to doctors, imprisoned to the ministers, imprisoned to the general secretaries for the coronary, impunity and insurance, because we are going to make the wallet for some to invest in the board of directors? The board of directors, says, and those who make up this strange body will invest if they fall out to have no responsibility. You guys are nice! Impressive everywhere, nobody hurts you. You will plunder the country, you will level it, and no one can then ask for the floor. You will say that there are political responsibilities. We're making fun of the world! If, ladies and gentlemen, we should have learned one thing in this country in the years of the crisis, the benefits mean 'tax tomorrow', today's allowances are tomorrow's tax! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We do not disagree with giving benefits. We disagree with your logic. Giving a subsidisation to work, yes. Produce wealth and distribute money, yes. Tell the Greek people that the 500 or 400-hour youths received is money to be returned to ten, fifteen years to 700 and 800 euros. Where are you going to get them from? You'll get it from him, from his children. I heard a New Democracy Minister talking about new patriotism. For us, gentlemen of the New Democracy - and I know you agree many of you - there is no old and new patriotism. patriotism is one: love for the homeland, respect for God and care for the family of the Greeks! Everything else is an airplane. That's patriotism. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Because your doctrine, unfortunately, - because we have different doctrines with all of you - the doctrine of the New Democracy and the rest of the government old people is: don't give up your dreams, keep sleeping while watching them. What do we say, though? Don't give up, keep dreaming and fighting to complete your dreams. It's a qualitative difference! Qualitative! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Now, because the time is pressing and so that the President does not interrupt me, we have tabled our proposals many times, we have told them. I hope that at some point the New Democracy will hear us out. So what's the matter now with the coronary? Because for us it is very important that Orwell's doctrine should not be applied. You are 'organists'. What did Orwell say? At any time, every minute, there is an orthodomy at every juncture, i.e. a set of ideas supposedly all right-thinking people accept without any discussion. That's what Orwell says. That's what you're doing now. You impose a doctrine, someone, an orthodox concept, a scientific opinion. For you, then, orthodoxism are vaccines, orthodox doctrine. For us doubt is not a pleasant situation. Because we have doubts, ladies and gentlemen, about everything you say and I will prove it to you in a moment. But your certainty is an absurd, provocative situation. And that's what Volter said. So I connected Orwell and Voltaire to understand what you're doing. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Gentlemen of the government, would you like to be honest with the coronary, all those who are in favour of compulsory vaccination, all of you? We are therefore asking for a Greek Solution from all of you who want to impose vaccination on the rest of you, who are threatening you - perhaps you are right and right - to take out the vaccination certificates to see how many were vaccinated. That means transparency of political life. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Take out the vaccination certificates you want to make them mandatory for the Greeks. Everybody take it off. Everybody!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u25	There you go!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u26	There you go!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u27	There you go!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u28	Everybody take it off! Take them off!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u29	Please don't interrupt. Mr. Highlands, sit down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u30	Calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u31	Mr. President, how much longer are you going to need?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u32	I would like five to ten more minutes, Mr President. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] Calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u33	Sit down, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Hatzidakis, did you get a fly or the vaccine?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u35	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u36	I told you all to take it off. I haven't even done it. You guys get them out of here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u37	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u38	But take it off! Everybody take it off! Two of you are up! A hundred and fifty eight are you! Everybody take it off! I know exactly what I'm saying here. I'm not saying what I want. Let me know better than you. Everybody take it off. You'll get naked, not to say anything else, so that the Greek people can see that some of you are obliging him, but some of you are doing ducks to end the story. As for the move to get up, I don't understand. Everybody! If, then, you all want to present the vaccination certificates to the President of Parliament. So I say where they got Greece. I hear the President of Make a Wish in the United States, Richard Davis, saying that children who are just before death, because they have a health problem, will not receive the wish for implementation if they do not do the vaccine. Do we understand that? We're talking about an inhuman situation. It's not humanity. That's inhumanity. And because you're desperate, you're resorting to desperate measures. The biggest weapon of politics is persuasion. You need to convince people that you're right. When you resort to the takeover, you just admit that you failed to convince and confess to all of us and to society that you were desperate. Gifts. There's no worse lesson for young people than what you did. You criminalised youth once again. Are you taking over responsibility? Are we serious? That's criminal! With 150 euros you will redeem the responsibility of the citizen? What are you going to do? You're baking young people. You're extracting consciences. And you're making other mistakes. Wrong one: Illegal discrimination of citizens in vaccinated and unvaccinated. But listen, what's the worst, the wrong second. Your ministers come out and say that normal life will only have the vaccinated ones. Is this possible by politicians, by ministers? Is that possible? Skertsu Statement - he is not elected man, he is a journalist, you put him there every day to curse the Greeks - : The invaders limit the possibilities they have as free citizens to live properly. That's all God has said, no one else. Fortunately, the Prime Minister is careful in such statements. Fortunately! I don't know, however, if his other ministers who come out next door and join, if they've been ordered to join in order not to expose the Prime Minister. Thirdly, a mistake: the Scortsu Declaration again, any restrictive public health measures that will be of a local or point-of-point nature, will only concern the inconveniences and will not be accompanied by economic dependence and support. Put us a yellow star here, a little bracelet, as Anastasiades says to walk around, the stigmatized ones who don't want to be afraid. I'm not telling you they don't want to be vaccinated, afraid. Fourth mistake: you have become an allowance government. The party that once brought the underpaid wages, New Democracy - listen - and when they were unemployed, it now gives them 150 euros. I will leave you a statement from the Greek Prime Minister, who, when the SYRIZA government gave allowances on December 16, 2017, said: "It is not a reform to give EUR 400 to young people, eighteen to twenty-four years old, to spend a better Christmas." Then SYRIZA gave 400 euros for Christmas. He gave it away. And the Prime Minister went out and said: “... and to think that this is how hope comes. That's a tip. It is not the profound changes that young people are expecting today." It seems that deep changes stop with the pinching of the needle and 150 euros. The Prime Minister of the country said it then. That's what I'm saying. They give you 150 euros to do the vaccine. They give 150 euros to the young people to say Skopje, Macedonia. They're giving 150 euros to accept Islam. They give 150 euros so I don't have a doubt and a point of view. They give 150 euros to forget our ancestors. They give 150 euros to tell anyone who comes here. They give 150 euros to believe that we're sanctuating any bad choice of the government, breaking up the family. They're giving 150 euros so you don't have kids. They give you 150 euros to advertise everything the system tells you. They give 150 euros to watch Turkish series on your own channels. They give 150 euros for multicultural societies. They give 150 euros for Greece to die and you to live. Hey, no, guys! Mercy! That's enough! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Fifth mistake: make decisions, which are attributed to experts. Mrs. Linou comes out yesterday and is exposing you irreparably. It says: 'The EUR 150 freedom pass is dangerous'. They didn't consult the experts. You lie to the Greeks that experts decide. It's not the experts' decision. You decide. You'll be responsible for what happens. You're the ones responsible, and we'll do anything to apologize for that. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Sixth mistake: you're wasting money for wrong reasons. Here's what's going on. And I guess nobody knows it in here. You gave EUR 200 million to the old ones - some to be savage and reminded all day. The meningitis vaccine for one baby is given in three doses. You know that? The three instalments cost 100 euros each, i.e. a total of 300 euros. To grant it at no cost, the state has no money. Parents pay for it. Do you know that? However, 150 euros are given to be vaccinated with a vaccine of doubtful quality. Check it out. Seventh mistake. And I'm using your words, I'm not saying what I think. What I believe is of no importance or what the scientists and doctors of our party think. Kontozamanis says to the House on May 31, 2021: “The vaccines are licensed, not licensed.” What do you want me to say more?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u39	Mr. President, how much longer are you going to need? We've reached thirty-three minutes. Show an understanding, because we have a long list and the meeting will go by midnight.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u40	The political leaders will be gone, Mr President, and yours will be gone. Let me talk a little bit more. Is it okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u41	Time is not set off.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u42	You've never done it to another Chief, especially you. You're a noble man. I need you to listen to me for another three minutes. I would therefore say that Mr Kontozamanis, on 31 May 2021, says that vaccines are licensed, not licensed. Tell me now, is it my fault that I have doubts? Is it my fault that the Greek, the sprayed one? Or are those who say you can do it while he doesn't have a license? It is a statement to the Greek Parliament. Eighth mistake, the impunity. It's not the government's responsibility for vaccines, it's not the manufacturer's responsibility, it's not the doctor who's embolizing you, but if you're not vaccinated, you're irresponsible. Let's draw conclusions. I'm telling you a few things that really give us doubts. Your ninth mistake: hide the side effects. I have in front of me a post, but also an exhibition of the American Medicines Agency that talks about rare cardiac inflammations of myocarditis, pericarditis, especially in young people. Malone, the inventor of mRNA, says that mRNA vaccines are wrong. I'll testify to that in the Minutes. Malone is the manufacturer of mRNA. Another mistake. How do you get out and say it's safe? Eleventh mistake. You're not announcing the side effects. European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction: European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products: Netherlands, number of vaccinations: eight million eight hundred thousand people. Greece: eight million two thousand people. Recorded side effects in the Netherlands: seventy thousand. In Greece, three thousand. What DNA do we Greeks have? There's nothing on it. Lies with lies. Here's the evidence and I'll submit it to the Minutes. You're reducing everything to impress and lying to the world. For the mutation, I won't say. You're making fun of the world again. Thirteenth mistake: Declarations of terror by Ministers. Those who are vaccinated will live. Those of you who refuse may die. He said that, Minister. Are these things being said? Wrong 15th and closing, Mr President, you consider the panacea vaccine to be a mistake. For Israel that was vaccinated by most, the hospitals were the vaccinated ones. You know that? Stop lying to the world. In Britain, the same thing. In Israel the lockdown and the masks are restored. It's not panacea the vaccine. What's panacea? For diseases one is the solution. It's the medicine you didn't do, and you didn't help get the medicine out of here. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Of course, that's what you did with Russia. This morning and yesterday, Russia and President Putin himself denounced the government. It is possible to play with the intelligence of other countries. You're telling them, come without a test, we're leaving you five days later, you're saying no, isn't Germany leaving us? Is that proper governance by the New Democracy? Putin came out and said: 'They are doing what the Europeans want. While they decided that, they turned it around.’ I ask you: The Russian citizen who paid to book a ticket, book a hotel and who wanted to come to Greece, how is he coming now? You're making mistakes. You're amateurs really. Once you're told by the Germans, do it on the spot. Wrong sixteenth and seventeenth: You have businessmen to control the world. Christ and God bless you! Will you do the businessman's portrait and make face control of who comes in and who comes out, because you are unable to rule or incapable of finding ways? It's unbelievable. I'm not talking about personal data. I'm telling you this to understand what political personnel in the country mean. We objected to unconstitutionalism, they agreed on all opposition parties, but they did not agree to vote. That's who you are, gentlemen of the Left, of the fake Left. At least the Communists abstained. Good for them. In honor of them. The others say: "You are right, it is unconstitutional, but we do not vote because we disagree ideologically". I'm gonna close up with something simple. You made fake ideologies. Here, drag the Church and the Archbishop behind your criminal choices. I don't know what transaction there might be. I don't want to believe it. But it is not possible that the Church, Orthodoxy, who speaks of dogma, of faith - one may disagree - drag behind forced vaccines. It's all criminal. So I'm hanging up here. You all made fake ideologies. You, anyway, are not a New Democracy. No relationship you have with the patriotic party of Constantine Karamanlis, with the folk right. In any case, you have nothing to do with our Macedonia, with our national issues, with the economy. You're fake - ideologists from the safe, everyone. You're a fake, left until you get rich. You're a fake, right, until you're hungry. I'm telling you one, one to understand it. You're a fake anarchist until you're Chief. You're a fake, atheist, until the plane goes down. Our ideology is completely different. Our ideology is one and it is our Greece, our homeland and the Greeks. Nothing else, neither left-wing nor right-wing Centroes, because you've got it all worked out. To close, a wolf can hide in the sheep. Never the reverse. But the Greek is neither a wolf nor a sheep. The Greek is a lion. That is our view. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u43	We enter the first circle of speakers with a natural presence. Mr Vassiliou Ypsilantis from the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I wish you a good month, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to show my vaccination certificate, the European vaccination certificate which has been in place since now in the European Union. Secondly, I wanted to say: This step, unfortunately, often from a step of democracy is changing to a step of populism especially when references are made to false evidence.... [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] ...when - and while the Greek people are watching us - our country is present today as the first to deficits, while in reality it is in the 16th place and when Great Britain, Ireland, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Belgium, Denmark and the United States are in the 20th place based on data. And we hear them by oral party leaders who want to appear as super-patriots, while we, allegedly, have not represented the values of real, a party we have been supporting for over forty years and has been in the strife for the great national conquests. This is where we are, unfortunately. And, of course, no one denies that this medium-term financial strategy framework 2021-2025 is being subjected to a moment when the global economy, but also the Greek one, is still being tested by the negative effects of the coronary. The budgetary measures taken by the Government of Mitsotakis and New Democracy, as well as the measures taken by the European institutions, significantly reduced the negative economic consequences of the pandemic. Within this framework this year, it is true that the budget forecasts - and they are next - did not go ahead for both macroeconomic and budgetary figures. However, the conviction is now that overcoming this situation created by pandemic, the Greek economy can enter the orbit of an unprecedented creative era. There are preconditions. He needs unity. It needs determination. However, our conviction is made by the fact that the current government, with good choices and policies in the field of health, the economy, state modernisation and digital governance, has finally given our country a mild power that it has not met in recent decades. The bad example has now become the good example of the European Union. What about the main? It creates the appropriate political environment with the necessary reforms in all areas, from education to the labour market and insurance - in this way, the country gains the confidence of markets and investors - by aiming at rebuilding the economy by means of entrepreneurship enhancers and avoiding suffocating restrictive measures on the business initiative. These are aims that are to do with improving everyday life, together with legislative initiatives that will dismantle carcinomas and speed up institutional changes that consolidate the position of Greece in Europe. And Greece can and wants to prosper at European level. The change in the Stability and Recovery Pact will be an important turn in the real economy in order to provide flexibility in crisis response, better coordination of developments in the real economy and place public investment in a proper framework of protection and development. Inside this, the Recovery and Resilience Fund will be a unique tool that will be able not only to stimulate the economy, but also to become a means for a strong Greece in the 21st century. The European Commission's approval of the Greek Reform and Investment Plan, which will be financed by the Recovery Fund, and due to its size and excellent design, creates enormous expectations. The figures will not be repeated for an economy of time. They're, after all, familiar. The growth rate in the medium term in 2021 is estimated to be 3.6%, while the growth rate for 2022 is projected to be 6.2%. We expect an average growth of 4% on average. This is translated into a cumulative increase in investment by 88.4 %, in exports by 43.1 %, in a reduction in unemployment by five points over the same period, in a one-digit reduction in red loans by 2022, but also in recovery by the first half of 2023. The tax revenues following the 2020-2021 reduction due to the limitation of economic activity, as well as the household and business support measures, are expected to recover. The primary expenditure of the State following the major disbursements of 2020 and 2021 large sums to support the incomes of natural persons and businesses, as well as the ESS, of course, is normalised. The projections for primary care, pension costs, the cost of the OPEKA for social benefits such as minimum guaranteed income, family and disability benefits, housing benefits, birth allowance and, finally, the cost of the EEAS for medicines and other sickness benefits. Finally, the forecasts for financing the Public Investment Programme. The main budgetary objective for the period 2021-2025 remains the most rapid absorption of the resources provided by the co-financed programmes. The medium-term, ladies and gentlemen, reflects a new, hopeful era for our country through realistic targets that lead us from our recession to strong, sustainable, sustainable growth, based on the green transition to digital transformation, the shielding of social cohesion through the stimulation of employment and, of course, private investment. With these thoughts, I declare that I am voting for the medium-term framework of a fiscal strategy together with the majority of the Greek people who feel security following those who have lived in particular in recent years and in particular in July 2015 with the governance of Tsipras, Varoufakis, Kammenos. I would like to close - and I take a little time to say from this step as a responsible citizen and politician - and I address the Dodecanese people and especially those involved in tourism - that they should not listen to these voices of populism and seek, with the agreement of course, their doctors to be vaccinated. So they shield themselves, shield the local economy, shield our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, I would like the floor for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u46	What do you want, Mr. Heta?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u47	He called the president a liar...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u48	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u49	I won't need ten seconds, Mr. President. Because it is wrong to hear inaccurate - it seems that my colleague was in a turbulence when our President spoke and did not understand what he was saying - our President referred to, Mr Colleague, as a first debt. Debt on GDP, not deficits. One more thing: it has referred to first debt on GDP, not to deficits. These are basic principles of the economy. Let's send you a book of the basic principles of the economy to read it. Read a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Charalambos Mamoulakis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious to all of us that any provision for the future of the Greek economy in these circumstances is, in fact, precarious and risky. This, of course, is not charged to the government or the Minister of Finance, but to the unprecedented circumstances we have all been experiencing for almost two years. However, pandemic cannot hide the central omissions and ideologies in the government's economic policy pursued, which, logically, are also reflected in the medium-term context that we are now called upon to vote on. In this speech, therefore, I would like to confine myself to having five main reasons and reasons why I believe that today's strategy we are called upon to vote on is nothing but a wish, rather than a report of ideas. And why am I saying that? I believe that the five main reasons for this concern the ambiguity and bilingualism of the New Democracy Government in Greece and Europe, the instant freezing of benefits - where we will also see the consequences that will exist in the Greek economy - the slow recovery of tourism and in general the tourist industry, the poor quality of investment in the project "Greece 2.0" and, of course, an economy based, on your design, on low wages. So let's get started. First of all, what Mr Mitsotakis does in Europe. Europe and by extension, and Greece has saved the worst so far because of the flexibility shown by the European Commission through the general clause of escape from the stability pact. However, the exceptional status of the general escape clause does not know with certainty how long it will last. The provision for the reintroduction of the pact after 2022 is, I stress, a matter of the uncertainty of the pandemic, but also of the political processes at European level. The current low cost of financing the public sector from the financial markets is not a result of the current government's economic policy, but a result of the extraordinary programme of purchasing securities due to a pandemic which has reduced the interest rate on loans from all countries, from all Member States. And, of course, the low cost of financing is the result of the 37 billion-dollar pillow inherited by the present government. That's not what we say. That is what you are saying and clearly in this medium-term and on page 9. So the tymbolism of the Greek economy in the midst of a pandemic is characterised by a pandemic, not because the relaxation of the rules on budgetary policy is not a radical reorganization of them, but because of this change, which today gives oxygen to the Greek economy, you do nothing. So what is interesting is what your position is, your real position, in relation to these rules from this point on. What position does the Minister for Finance and the Prime Minister in Brussels keep when he is called upon to place himself on the future of the general refugee clause? Do you think that today's temporary relaxation should lead to a permanent change in the Stability Pact or is the Minister of Finance, with voices, often coming from the European People's Party, who argue about the need for an immediate return from 2023 to the pan-European austerity? From today's medium-term and from its forecasts, we understand that the second is probably the case. Secondly, it is the abrupt freezing of allowances and I would clarify that. The forecasts for the medium term include the measures adopted so far to support the social categories affected by the consequences of the pandemic. Today's medium-term, however, does not prejudge any additional measures that the Greek Government will need to take from this point on. It does not create a reduced security cushion for the years 2022-2023, although we all know that the limitation measures applied by the government are and will continue to be flexible. Thus, they will continue to increase at national or local level, depending on the future of the virus and its mutations. And we agree with the flexible nature of the measures. In the medium term, however, it takes as the main assumption that the pandemic is over and that the government will not need to take any additional measures to support affected social categories, while both international organisations and the explanatory statement in this medium-term plan, which you have brought us to the vote today, are of vital importance only for the gradual declining of national support measures for the private sector and labour. It is clearly indicated on page 50 of this project. So if what you are supporting in the medium term is true, then the Greek economy is not only threatened by the austerity austerity but also by the infarction - the infarction, I stress - of the instant end of the benefits to the private sector. The third reason is the slow, slow recovery of tourism. The prediction of a strong recovery of the economy in our country is based on the assumption of the immediate and rapid recovery of international tourist demand. Indeed, the Minister for Finance is so optimistic that we are being asked today to agree that total tax revenues, without any increases on any scale, will be 2022 higher than 2019, or 90,19 billion euros compared with 89,62 billion euros. However, this optimism is not supported by the messages of the tourist market. This optimism is also not supported in terms of the European leaders who insist on a hard stand - and probably right - on the issue of relaxing measures to limit international travel. This optimism is not supported, for example, by the attitude taken by the United Kingdom on the health risk presented by our country, obviously the result of and abrupt to the mismanagement of the health crisis here in Greece. Your optimism is not supported either by the international organizations' forecasts, such as the World Tourism Organization, for the expected recovery of world demand for tourist services. If the World Tourism Organisation and the tourist barometer today predict that the reintroduction of international tourist demand in the before 2020 levels will take place in a period of two to three years, you, through what assumptions do you claim that with the revenues from tourism they will have been restored by 2022? Fourthly, the poor quality, the poor composition of the investments of the project "Greece 2.0". The pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, has led - and this is why, of course, this government - to reveal the unprecedented deficit in our country's trade balance. As you know, this deficit from the Migration is mainly covered by tourist revenues. This deficit is certainly not a new one. It is "the elephant in the room", about the shortcomings and weaknesses of the Greek economy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Note at the moment of shock and in the midst of the collapse of the Greek economy, Greek exports maintained their dynamism. In the Mezzogiorno's explanatory statement, it is even stated that the second half of 2020 was a record year for Greek exports, reaching and flirting with the EUR 8 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u52	Finish, Mr. Mamulaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u53	But the question of the future of the Greek economy and the question to which the National Representation must answer is what we are doing to strengthen the dynamism of these export sectors of the Greek economy, namely what part of the resources of the Recovery Fund, which are essential resources, are intended to be directed towards the processing of high-value products, the environmental upgrading of industry and the craft sector and the integration of a model of circular economy in processing. And the answer, unfortunately, is tragic. Just 400m euros, i.e. 2% of the total budget for the Recovery Fund, lead to aids that it has foreseen for industry and shipping together, and the cyclical economy literally shines through its absence from the project "Greece 2.0" And I conclude with the fifth reason, the economy based on low wage pay. The problem in conclusion with your own proposal for the Recovery Fund is the development model that defines for the country both the medium-term plan and the project "Greece 2.0".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u54	Come on, Mr. Mamulaki, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u55	Wait a minute. A growth model based on labour intensity and low wages, low wages, a growth model linked to financing the economy with purely banking criteria, in which money will be driven, will result in sectors that are already here such as tourism, construction, financial bubbles and private, state-owned individuals, who have been depriving themselves of the infancy of the Greek state for years. Nothing about work, nothing about the small and medium-sized ones and, above all, nothing about the productive green reconstruction of our country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u56	Next speaker, Mr Athanasios Ljupi, from the New Democracy. Warm request to keep time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are at a turning point for the Greek economy. Over the past decade, we have experienced difficult situations with a hold of the two-year health crisis. But for the first time after more than ten years, I think we found the end of the thread. All data converge that we are at the beginning of a new prosperous period for fair and sustainable growth. The medium-term framework of the financial strategy 2022-2025 includes all the financial elements that constitute the prospects of the Greek economy for the next three years. It marks the transition to a development path with many opportunities that we need to take advantage of in the future. The New Democracy programme has already set a pre-election target for attracting and facilitating investment We are overcoming the obsolete attitude that the state must finance the economy and make the necessary transition to a private-sector economy. Only in this way will fiscal sizes be healthy in the long term, with the flagship of the huge investment in the Greek that improves Attica's appearance, which creates thousands of new jobs and, above all, changes the way we face the major investment in Greece. With this great effort we are already envisioning a more optimistic and developmental future for our country. Today's bill is nothing but an empty plan, as was heard from the officer's standpoint. The enormous change that we are discussing is not a waste, nor is it based on overestimates of the government. It is tangible, it is true and it is the result of three main factors, firstly, of the enormous effort to support businesses and workers during the pandemic period, with the aim of not losing jobs and not shutting down businesses, secondly, of European funds through the Development Fund and the ESDP of EUR 51 billion and, thirdly, of the spectacular increase in exports that we expect in the coming years. The figures envisaged - not by us - speak for themselves. Immediately the year that we are going through and until 2022 we see the first signs of recovery. In 2021 the growth rate is expected to reach 3.6% and 2022 to be set at 6.2%. And to take into account that this is a moderate scenario in the sense that even more optimistic forecasts have been made at international level for the upcoming growth rates of the Greek economy. Investment remains at the centre, increases by 7% in the year that we are going through, and predicts an explosion of investment activity in 2022 by 30.3% and continues the dynamics of investment in our country all the years until 2025. As a result of the investment activity, there is also a great increase in revenues from privatisation. It is estimated that more than EUR 4.5 billion will be invaded by public funds by 2025. Exports are expected to increase by 13.7% in 2022 and continue to increase by 2025 at a rate of 6% per year. In addition, private consumption is expected to rise as a result of citizens' confidence. Already in the year the growth is expected to rise by 2.6% and continues to increase steadily by 2025. Overall, by 2022 Greek GDP will grow more than the world economy and, more than most, compared to most European Union countries. Greece has ceased since 2022 to be under enhanced supervision. 2023 is even more hopeful with a return to the primary surpluses. The primary surplus is estimated in 2025 to reach 3.7% of GDP. At the same time, a reduction in negative indicators is expected. The public government's debt, the general government, which is at 204.8% of GDP, will fall to 189.5% in 2022 and reach 156,9% in 2025. One of the expected consequences of the spectacular improvement of the economy is to limit unemployment from 16.3% this year to 11.1% in 2025. Two hundred thousand new jobs will have been created by then, a truly amazing figure that will drastically change the lives of many of our fellow citizens. At the same time, a significant reduction in red loans is expected, which has already been transparent. It would be inappropriate to refer to the government's basic actions in this year and a half: special purpose loans for workers, freelance professionals, self-employed and small businesses, seven cycles of EUR 8.2 billion repayable advance for six thousand businesses and free-traders, 'GATT I' to subsidise main residence loans and 'GATT II' for subsidising business loans, suspending payments of EUR 300 million for 2021, subsidising working capital for firms in the focus and tourism sector, reducing for 2021 the tax advance from 100% to 70%, suspending the special solidarity contribution for the private sector for 2021 and 2022 and, of course, all of this at the same time as attempting to curb pandemic with a very successful overall homologous vaccination programme, flawless and in its organisation. The squeezing of the economic sizes of the last decade in combination with the health threat, afflicted the Greek family and society, taught us much, better put our priorities, value simple everyday moments, and especially prepared us to take advantage of the coming explosion in the sizes of the national economy. Now, with greater wisdom and more experienced than ever, we can welcome the enormous opportunity that we are given to build together all Greece of the future for the new generations, without the excesses of the past, but with serious and serious design. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u58	And we thank Mr. Lippe. Mr. Loverdos Andreas from the Change Movement now has the floor. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, the government must always be in the Chamber. We understand that these are issues and personal needs many times, but because we will talk about economic issues, I would like the Minister here. But I'm starting with a matter outside the draft law, so it's okay that it's not. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind those who do not remember well that the September 2015 elections were held with the noise of around 15 to 16 September - if I remember correctly - created by the so-called 'populations against Papastavrous' and the hits by Samaras that were the Prime Minister in the government to which I participated a few months ago. I knew Mr Papastavrou as a lawyer and as coordinator of our work in relation to the implementation of the memorandum and nothing more. I didn't know him any more. And of course, when I heard those news, I was also surprised. After six years, of course, having the experience of the pre-research committees on Mr Papagelopoulos and what I said here in this House saying, I had learned the case now - I knew that this story would end with an adjunct to the archive, because the deadline for appealing - insulting the parliaments, where man was declared to be a celebrity innocent, was incomprehensible. That's what was missing, that's what happened yesterday. I mention it, ladies and gentlemen, because these things which cost the sadness and despair of 10% of the life of this particular person - 10% of the time of that particular person's life! - they must not be repeated in Greece, and all those who had the instruments to provide services must disappear from the political person of our country. Now we're going to the economy. He dealt with all the opposition, this morning I listened to Mr Katrugalo on television right to comment on the statements made by Mr Georgiadis yesterday - or yesterday - that Greece and our economy are not yet able to withstand a lockdown, yet another closure of the market. Even local market closures are certainly too negative. However, when a Minister involved in the financial staff says so, he also sends a message to the international markets. Mr. Georgiadis may speak of Greece and example the negative, but the message for the national economy is international. Is this about the government? Is it about the Ministry of Finance that we are at the mercy of the next Lockdown or not? Because if it's a verbal exaggeration, it's going well. It has a substance to shake the deceased and well-negative. However, if it is an assessment of the government's financial staff, it is very badly there and it is said too badly. Mr Stakoras is here now, who will remember his own statement in an earlier debate that the Greek economy is not threatened. And it was not because it is unrecognized about the problems the Greek economy has had, but because it is obliged to send a positive international message. We would therefore like to comment on this said by Mr Georgiadis. Are we really at the mercy of the next lockdown or not? Or can we stand it? However, if the government is so afraid of this next lockdown, then it should take the decision on compulsory vaccination of at least three categories of workers: health workers, teachers and tourist workers, and especially the focus. Because you can't say I'm staying at the focus, and I'm setting out what the conditions a client can get into a closed restaurant area, and you don't have to decide to protect it from the unvaccinated waiter or worker in the catering service. This contradiction is dreadful and the government's disarmament proves proverbial. The months go by and we'll be close to September. By the way, good month! As far as the medium-term is concerned, we are all making assessments of the progress of the economy over the next few years, at least by 2023. And when you do a medium-term until 2023, your mind goes right after. Remind me of the foolish excesses in this Chamber on the part of some opposition parties for a recession of 15% in 2020, for a recession of over 10% in 2020, and ultimately for the fact that the economy was closed with a recession of 8.2%. However, because there was this recession - and 8.2% is great! - I use numbers to emphasise that excesses should be avoided when the people require political moderation, seriousness and reasonableness. I would therefore like to say that in terms of the development forecasts for the current year and for the next year, we must also have in mind when we comment on them from where we start. The figures may seem very optimistic, but they are compared to those of 2020 that the pace of the economy was real, and to a large extent. So a 6% predicted by the other for 2022 - these are within the medium term - should not be understood as a expectation, as if the pandemic were not even in 2020. We must be very serious. I wish this forecast to be correct, although the forecast for 2021 does not come out right, as you said today. So there's a 1-to-one-to-one failure plus a percent failure. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, the Greek citizen, the Greek citizen who listens to us, should know that every optimistic forecast today for 2021, for 2022 and for 2023 is made on the basis of the negative given year 2020. So we must be very serious and measured, and at some point the government must start talking and tell us that 2023 cannot suddenly become a year of return to the beastly primary surpluses. Our question is, firstly, whether there will be a gradual or immediate relaxation, a gradual or immediate return to budgetary discipline. Because logic says that in the first half of 2023 it must also contain a gradual adjustment. Also, will the primary surpluses be the ones decided before the pandemic? We, as a Greek Socialist Party, as a PASOK, but also an active member - and not with the SYRIZA half-metres whose president is a member of the Socialist Party and its parliamentary group in the European Parliament participates in the 'GUE', that is to say, in a part of the Left - with the consequence that we have with the party in which we belong to Europe, we will strive not to come back to the vicious primary surpluses that existed before the pandemic. However, in the meantime - and I am closing down, Mr President - the government must ensure that it is properly implemented in order to speed up development, because both the legislation that we voted on last week on the abolition of bureaucratic licensing procedures is also limited in scope, but also unsatisfactory, as I have been given the opportunity to demonstrate in my speech last week, and the legislation of the Ministry of Transport on speeding up procedures based on public procurement is also a copy of the Spirtzi Act and nothing more. And I say the Spirtzi Act, because the Spirtzi Act was amended four hundred times in the five years that passed until 2019. However, the other measures it brings are not measures to speed up the flow of money into the economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u60	And with this to close, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u61	In this respect, it is very useful for the National Representation to be committed this second semester of this year at the initiative of the Government, but also with our own intervention in those legislative arrangements that will speed up the flow of the recovery fund's money into the Greek economy and will not slow it down, as the Greek legal system is currently structured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u62	He has the floor now...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u63	Mr President, may I ask the floor for my position?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u64	Look, Mr. Varoufakis has come...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u65	Mr. President... (It has not been heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u66	Mr Varoufakis, the Minister asked for his speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u67	Listen to me, too, and then speak, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u68	Minister, it is a warm request that we propose Mr Varoufakis as President of the Parliamentary Group and that you speak immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, did he ask for the floor before?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u70	I should like to inform you that, apart from the fact that the parliamentary groups have been informed about about when the political leaders will talk, once they enter the Chamber in legislative debates, we propose that they be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u71	I have no objections, Mr President, as long as we have no excess of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u72	None!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u73	The President of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Giannis Varoufakis, therefore has the floor. Here, Mr. Varoufakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, although today's bill is very important, I will start with something that is just as important, with what is being discussed by our world at every end of the Greek territory and about the vaccination process. The big question, and here I agree with the government, is to convince the Greeks, the Greeks, especially the young, to be vaccinated. To do this requires one thing, or persuasion. We need to convince them with arguments. I would like to comment, ladies and gentlemen, on the question of the Prime Minister on television in the last few days that he addressed to young people with the ironic fiber, the same youth he falsely accused in the past few months, this year and a half of the quarantine, that the one with the coronary in the squares spread the virus, when we know very well from the world literature that the virus was not being broadcast that way. It was transmitted to public transport, basically to workplaces, to supermarkets. The same Prime Minister who dared to demonize youth, to send Mr. Chrysochoid's MATs to the squares to beat them up, now speaks to them with a disgraceful, ironic style "Take a pinch and pinch 150 euros"! It is a style which is inconsistent with the objective of the government which is to convince these people to be vaccinated neither with the spirit and style of a Prime Minister. At the same time, we are at a time when, from the Ministry of Education, we are seeing two policy dimensions or a lack of policy. One is a continuous legalization of things that take us back, namely university police, which should not exist as you anticipate or measures such as, for example, the minimum degree of introduction that you actually take a very large portion of the youth and say to them: "Go pay the tuition fees to our friends private collegeers." This is your government. That's what you tell young people and our young people. At the same time, the second dimension - and now I speak as a university - is this: I do not know if you, ladies and gentlemen, have understood it, but the process of evaluating student knowledge has been abolished. Think about this and forget about our political and party controversies. When you do tests through ZOM, you are effectively circumventing the ability of the professor or teacher to evaluate the knowledge of the students. At the Open University in Britain, which is the first learners of distance education, they would never have thought of doing distance examinations. Teaching yes, training yes, education yes. No, but no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Even at Open University they gather two weeks a year in one place in their area, at one university in the region and give written examinations, because otherwise you can't evaluate the writings. It's very simple. What professor can now turn back and tell you that the degree he gave was not about the performance of a student, a friend of the student or student, who received the subjects from the student or the student through an e-mail, returned the answers "cut and paste" or even copying and received from the professor? You will tell me "We don't trust students?". No, of course we don't. Or we wouldn't have run tests. Otherwise, we would ask them to assess themselves. And Mrs Keramos herself, the most worthy Minister of Education who has passed through this House, from that state, from that state, is now coming and promises an assessment. Unworthy have no opportunity to assess. Mrs Keramos had to be at her house and not with Mr Mitsotakis to mock the youth and at the same time ask young people to listen to the government and be vaccinated. So you undermine the effort that is common - and yours and ours - to convince young people to be vaccinated. I shall now refer to the matter of the day. I want to remind you that the month he left yesterday had a ten-year anniversary. Remember the medium-term PASOK that passed in June 2011, after the chemical war against the indignants, against protesters outside? Never used our story, the state, the police, such huge quantities of chemicals against protesters, from the chemicals that - as you know, I imagine if you don't know it - look at the fact that they are - they are forbidden in the battlefields! I'll say it one more time. Chemicals used here in June 2011 to evacuate Syntagma Square, to pass the PASOK Medium-term, are banned in the battlefields. If Israel, the United States, Iraq - I do not know who - is supposed to be indicted by international law. What is the bitter lesson of the 2011 medium-term? The bitter medium-term lesson of 2011 is that "Kate well" to the poor, "Kate well" to the poor poor people, even if the poor people sit well, does not help. When we entered the Memorandums in 2009-2010, we had an income of 237 and a debt of 300. When you, Mr. Stakoura, handed over the Treasury in January 2015, had been closed in 2014 with an income of 177, i.e. from 237 to 177, according to ELSTAT's figures and debt had gone from 400 to 320. This was the great success of the 2011 medium-term. Well, then, Mr. Samaras said it very well. You remember that together we criticised in the 2011 medium-term, no matter if after a nod by Mrs Merkel he went through an oblivious transformation, just like Tsipras in July 2015. It was an oblivious transformation, for which I would have no problem, if it were in favour of our economy, for our people. It wasn't. As I spoke about the ten years since the chemical war against the protesters for the 2011 medium-term, let me also talk about the other six-year anniversary. We are in the anniversary week of the referendum. Look, ladies and gentlemen, having disagreements between us on what should have happened or what happened, etc., is reasonable. We say 'Yes' to reasonable disagreements. We're being maintained. It is the salt of earth and democracy, honest disagreements. But guilty distortions do not help dialogue. And they don't even help the perverts, because at some point the truth shines. Even here, every time I say anything, whether it's about education, whether it's about conscientiousness, about anything, it's about Mr. Stagiras, or a Member of Parliament who wants to become Minister in the place of Mr. Stakoura, Caliph, in the place of the Caliph and says again the same fairy tale about Varoufakis who closed the banks. So can we be a little serious about the facts? On 23 April 2015, Mr Draghi notified a private legal office in Brussels of his intention to close the banks to us. And how do I know? He's telling us. In fact, it took the money of European citizens to give an opinion on whether it was legally entitled to do so. In other words, I and Fabio De Massi, the German Member of the European Parliament, initially and as a Member of the Bundestag, have tabled a simple question to Mr Draghi - I am speaking at the moment on 23 April - and we have said 'Please, Mr Draghi, can you give us the opinion? What did they tell you? You were planning - you admit it - to close the banks. What did they tell you? Was it legal to freeze the ELA and close the banks?". Mr. Draghi's answer is signed here. Is it a reply of 17 September 2015 and it actually says "I do not give it to you", which raises some questions, because if they had told him that it is legal and what he did, why does he not give it to us? But we cannot know the content. However, there is an admission from Mr Draghi here - and I will present it to the Minutes of the House for you too - that he had actually received an opinion from a Brussels private office on 23 April on whether it was lawful to close the banks to us. The fact that Varoufakis closed down the banks is to a minimum controlled as inaccurate. I will tell you about the logic of Mr Draghi, ladies and gentlemen, and I shall submit to the Minutes three things. One is a second letter of 16 October 2017 by Vice-President of the European Central Bank, Vitor Constantsi, an excellent man, by the way, and I personally, who also explains why they will not give us the papers, why they will not give us the opinion. Finally, I will submit a third very thick package which is a collection of thousands of signatories to Europe's top economists and politicians from all parties, including right-wing parties, social democratic parties and SYRIZA, who support our request, Mr Fabio De Massi and myself, to see - and you - what this opinion was. You don't want to see this opinion, what did Mr. Draghi say? Did he do all right and shut down the banks? You don't care? I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Secretary of Mera25 Mr.Giannis Varoufakis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am not personally interested in having a debate in the House on what has happened. What I care about is what's going on out there, in our world, in our world, in your world, in the Greek people. After Mr Tsipras' conspiracy and those who have been in SYRIZA since then - very few in relation to those we were - the logic was to accept 'Kate well'. Uh, you've sat well, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, as you sit well today. And what did you do? Can we see the timeline of the debt-purpose? Let's go to GDP. 2009 was 237, as they said before. You handed me 177 in 2014, according to ELSTAT. In 2019, when you came out, it was 183. He had gone from 237 to 177 and a little over 183. Today's 166. The debt in the meantime went from 300 to 320 billion in 2014, to 330 in 2019, to 370 today. In other words, the debt colony is deepening. If there was one reason to be bankrupt in 2010, there are ten today. And don't tell me about the negative interest rates. That's none of your business. You yourself, your Ministry, Minister, admits that a small piece is only on the markets and is valued at these interest rates, the biggest one is in Troika. And that's a positive interest rate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u75	Please a little louder the sound. We're not listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u76	Please raise the intensity of microphones.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u77	Don't you hear me? You usually blame me for speaking too loudly and I say a lot more than I should have said. But I'm so glad, Mr. Mayor. Mr. Admiral or Mr. Mayor? I prefer the "master", so I know you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u78	Whatever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u79	Good. Let me get to the point. The substance is the following. We said from March 20th here - look to find the Practicals of the Parliament - that this pandemic will deepen the debt-purpose and that if you do not succeed through a Eurobond, the transfer of public debt burdens from the sloppy debts of the Greek Ministry of Finance, Italy, Spain to the "shoulders" of the European Union will impose on you a new package of austerity and new "finance" - in quotes - a recovery of debt. Today you come to confirm us completely. What you are doing today is what we anticipated in March 2020. Since I have you here, Mr Stakoura, I want to take you back on 8 April 2020. You were there, I was here, and I told you that we would strengthen you as a party if you went to the Eurogroup - you had a Eurogroup that day after the meeting - and you threatened to veto if this Europeanisation was not done, the transfer of the burdens from the poor 'homes' of the finance ministers in the European Union as regards the increase of the debt due to the pandemic, which was necessary. And you stood up and said that “I will not be Barofalis, I will go consensually, I will not go like the bad boy who says “no””. And I told you: 'You have just lost your chance to negotiate.' Because when you go before the Eurogroup and you have announced beforehand that you will not veto, you should not go, you should read the Eurogroup communate after. It doesn't matter what you say at all. Not personally. However, the only power that the Minister for Finance has of a bankrupt country, a lone country, in this Eurogroup is the possibility of vetoing. As the Dutch, who is, of course, stronger, but also the Hungarian, have done so in the European Union when they have won something with the veto. Like Andreas Papandreou in 1983, otherwise there would be no NSRF today. I'm not saying you're using the veto on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, but this crime you've committed, Mr. Stakoura - I told you, and then - is that you released the veto before you went inside. You tied both hands with a chain and I told you that "you will bring a fifth memorandum", which you are doing today. You will tell me: “What memorial? What's this? Mr Tsipras said he abolished it." Can we be serious? If, in other words, the third memorandum by Mr Tsipras had called it 'The Pact with Europe for the Revival of the nation', would it not be a memorandum? It's a memorial. What's a memorandum? Allow me a definition, because it is important to get together and I think we can agree on what it means to'memorandum'. The "memorandum" is for a country like Greece that cannot serve its debt. Proof is that we're on the ESS. If we could, we wouldn't be at the ESS. You could not, in the midst of pandemic, finance the deficits that you are doing well and finance if there was no financial arrangement for a State which cannot do what Germany or even France could do standing on its feet. This recycling from our debt troika is a prerequisite to talk about a memorandum. That's not good enough. There's the second, the austerity. I told you that, given that there is no restructuring of the debt, that there is no real Eurobond in order to transfer a portion of the debt from our state or Italy, Spain to the European Union, to pretend that you are paying off the debt you must put in your medium-term exterior, "blooded", as the JRC says, surpluses. When you were elected - I remember, I had discussed it with you and with Mr Mitsotakis, you said it in the election - you considered it right that SYRIZA had committed the country by 2060 to a primary surplus that is not sustainable. The 2.2%, if you remember. From 2024-2025 to 2060. You said so and said you were going to negotiate to reduce the timeless minimum primary surplus below 2.2%. Of course, when you accept the increase in the debt due to the fact that you'sold' on the 8th day of April, the Eurobond, saying that 'I do not veto Mrs Merkel' - or Mr Schultz at that time - which the Prime Minister supposedly supported, what is your only alternative? What you are doing today: let's get the primary surplus - we're talking about 16 billion primary surplus by 2025, from your figures to 3.7%. From 2.2%, which was shameful, shameful according to you, until 2060 you tell us about 3.7% for 2025. Let's see what you're going to say about 2026, because it's medium term. The long-term will come along with the new financial intervention, which will come, Mr Stakoura. Please do too much for yourself and for your haughtiness to admit it. This year the European Central Bank under the PEPP, the Bond Market Programme for the pandemic in particular, not in general terms of quantitative relaxation, bought some 20 billion in the secondary market. They live around 13, 14, 15, somewhere to buy until March 2022. Then it's over. And you yourself say that we will have a credit upgrade for after 2022-2023. And what will happen from January when the European Central Bank stops keeping the low interest rates so low? Unless you have a secret agreement with the European Central Bank that we do not know about. If you have it, please testify to us, we will also know what the deal is and what you have given them. Because they, you know, never give anything, if they don't get out of "whispering" of "petroleum blood". You will tell me, of course, that 'the Recovery Fund is coming'. You yourself tell us that by 2025 there will be 14-15 billion. You say so. Aids, loans don't count. Is that right? The backup counts. So they're coming 14-15 billion. You have a primary surplus up to 2025 at the same time of 16 billion. This year you will have to repay only 11.5 billion. Next year you'll have to pay back about 9.5 billion dollars. It's clear that macroeconomicly if you see the Recovery Fund it's insignificant. Of course, for your company it is very important, "They will eat with golden spoons". But as far as the macro-economy of Greece is concerned, it is macroeconomicly insignificant. It will not help you solve your budget problem. Do you want another proof? Because the good news is that at least with the numbers, even yours that prove to be extremely optimistic with the course - this is happening in all societies - you say so. You say that taxes between 2019 and 2025 will increase 16%. 16% you will increase taxation, the total amount of taxes the state will make. It's your evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u80	Tax revenue. It makes a difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u81	Tax revenues are. Expenses are taxes? It's taxes, Mr. Stakoura. I didn't say about tax rates. I know very well the difference between coefficient and amount. You won't teach me. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] The amount of taxes, tax revenues, which is one, will rise by 16%. At the same time, expenditure from this year to 2025 will be reduced by 9%. What does that mean? Confirmation of what we're saying. You bring austerity today and you declare it yourself through the papers. Can I tell you something else, Mr. Stakoura? Let's think about that. The primary surplus of 3.7% - You know it, but you don't tell the world yours, the New Democracy. We say this in our world - it is the same as in the private sector's primary deficit. The public surplus is equal to the private deficit. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] You will put your long arm on the ADP, which does not already belong to you and does what it wants, in the pockets of your own fans, our own people, the people who dislike all of us, the political parties, and you will take them out of 3.7%. I'm just closing up to talk to the Minister. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, since the mid-term of 2011, and the chemical war, we have been here in 2021. Since the first Memorandum of May 2010, we have come to what we call the fifth Memorandum for the reasons I mentioned. The memos don't work. The idea Mr Papandreou had with Mr. Papaconstantinou. Mr Papaconstantinou first and convinced Mr Papandreou, with whom Mr Samaras disagreed, who was then persuaded to become Prime Minister and to forget that he disagreed. Then we went with Mr. Tsipras to oppose. Then he was persuaded for some reason that he had to condone in this process. This process constantly reduces the ability of the Greek people to be viable as a people, as a nation, as a state, as an economy. This unbearable consequence of irresponsible obedience is transformed by pandemic into a deepening of the hardship. Ladies and gentlemen, the circles of rulers have much to gain. I said it last week. I estimate that one 5% of the Greek people - the richest - won from the memorials and earned a lot more today with the sales of red loans, just as predators feed on the flesh of a half-dead body. This 5% with the Recovery Fund will be 15%. There will be another 10% of the Greek population that will win. Some more than others, but something will win. 85% of the Greek people have been doomed to the process that started since 2011. Fortunately, life doesn't put it down. It only resurrects, as was the case after the chemical war of Syntagma Square in 2011, when the indignant back in the square. This did not mean, however, that the Greek society does not have the opportunity in 2015 to stand up and throw you a 62% "no", so that we can finally stand up against our history. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] You've gone with the conquerors. You're smuggling Draghi who would do the same to you. You, Mr. Stakoura, would be annoyed by the troika. Did you not close the second memorandum because they were asking you to do things that were against your conscience and you want us to do, because we were threatened by Mr Draghi's most anti-European policy to close a country's banks? I personally like Mario, but whoever was in his place was obliged in an inhumane way to actually hit the idea of Europe, the European Republic and, of course, our country. Merra25 is here - not that I remember the past, we have forgotten the past, and if not we have forgotten it, we have put it aside - and we are interested in one thing: to keep a calm passion for the many, for 85% out there and constantly present a perfect plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u82	The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Theodoros Skakakis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the medium-term programme put forward by the government shows the course we hope and expect our economy to have in the coming years and I think we can rightly be optimistic about the future. In budgetary terms and macroeconomic conditions, the medium term provides in the high growth baseline scenario. This year is 3.6% which is a difficult and paradoxical year, 6.2% we predict 2022, 4.1% in 2023, 4.4% in 2024 and 3.3% in 2025. At the end of this period we anticipate a serious decline in unemployment of 11% in 2025 and a low average inflation of 1.3% during the period. The course so far - I must confess to you - was better than expected in relation to the pandemic. The opposition - I would remind you - Mr Tsipras and Mr Varoufakis had foreseen in the House here in 12% and 15%, respectively. The average of the euro area is 6.2% and we went to 8.2% better than we predicted in the autumn when we tabled the budget. Also, Greek bonds currently have the lowest loan cost in history, and I note why I have heard various arguments that this was true just before the pandemic. As for the argument that the pillow was the reason, I note that with the same pillow on SYRIZA we have more than 3% interest rates and now we have less than 1%, so it is clear that in terms of the course of bonds that reflect the credibility of a country, as Mr Brutsis rightly says, undisputed witness is the interest rates we have achieved. And in the first quarter we had a much better euro area recession, 1.4% compared with 3%, which means that our economy - because if you look at the individual factors that were investment, exports, industrial production all over and consumption staggered down - it reacts very well to the consequences of pandemic. We have 168 billion - and this is very important - private sector deposits and households in April compared with 142 billion we had when the crisis started. Which means we have 26 billion more deposits and a significant part of these deposits will go back to the economy. This is the important reason why a piece is due to deferred consumption. Plus, we have reached the Recovery Fund to have more than Europe's average - that means negotiation, negotiation - not getting from the average but from any other European country per capita - and we are moving very rapidly towards its implementation. I would remind you that we tabled it second in Europe, and we were the third to obtain approval from the committee, and now I believe I can inform you that the negotiations in question are going very well on in the Council, and very soon we will have the full approval, if you like, and from the board we will have the disbursement. The first projects are already signed and entered into the Public Investment Programme. The day before I signed and entered the Programme for Public Investment the implementation of urban projects throughout the country one of the most important reform projects that Greece will be planning in the coming years. In the light of the objectives we have set, it is clear that, despite the very large aid we have given to the market and to households, we do not have a budget derailment, instead we have reached the end of a major crisis, the biggest global crisis of the last forty-five years with the country looking optimisticly at the future, and we have also achieved a significant rate of vaccination, where in the morning when I was looking at 50% at one dose and 38% at two doses. At the same time, we all see that there is no secondary crisis, there is no explosion of unemployment and of the locks that some anticipated and which was also a real danger when this crisis began. We kept the culture of payments. I see it in the revenues every day. The culture of payments has been kept very well. And we have achieved - and this is a part of banking policy - a serious reduction in red loans and a continuation of reforms and investments, despite the fact that we were at the heart of a pandemic. Now, to clarify a few things, the present medium-term does not have new policies. It has only what is legislated, since 2023, since 2024 shows additional primary surpluses, which, of course, are written in the medium-term - if anyone does the trouble to read it - that they will be exploited for government policies and, above all, for tax reductions and contributions. However, we do not know today what we will agree as European countries, what Europe will agree as a whole for the objectives after 2023, so we cannot and can not determine what financial space will be left in the medium term to write and what policies we will implement. There are obviously uncertainties still. The uncertainties are the 'urgent' of the pandemic, I would say, which is mainly about vaccination, and they are from there and beyond the side effects of the rapid recovery that will occur - and there is already internationally - in inflation, interest rates and side effects of the rapid recovery that we will have in Greece, in the labour market with a very positive aspect, which is, I predict, the increase in wages that will also come into some sectors and categories. One negative aspect is that we will have human resources shortages because hundreds of thousands of highly competent Greeks left last season in critical areas and we will have to attract these people to come back, something that the government has already started with the measures it takes from too many aspects, tax, insurance, etc. The medium-term has a conservative scenario of how it will evolve and you see this if you look at our forecasts in relation to the international institutions and organisations' forecasts and you see it from the fact that we have not put a complete absorption of the Recovery Fund up to 31-12-2015 which is our main target, because while we have a chance to absorb it in 2026, we have targeted to absorb it all by the end of 2025. But for reasons of fiscal conservative approach we have kept in the budget, not in our real planning, and an absorption of 2026. It has been raised by the opposition - I think Mr Loverdos - the question of what impact the pandemic 'ura' can have and whether there will be another lockdown, etc. And what potential the country has. Here I will tell you: Greece has cash in cash, but has suffered a very serious financial bleeding. In my opinion, since the possibility of vaccination, Lockdown cannot be a solution. Since a large proportion of the population has been vaccinated, as soon as vaccines are available, we must resolve any problem with the pandemic urine and any mutations via vaccination. We cannot put a Lockdown-type solution at the table, which will have serious budgetary and macroeconomic implications which we all understand, because that is all summed up. Finance is a "summary" game, it's something you can go very well up to a while and if you let it get away with you, you get accidents. We are not going to allow an accident and the vaccination policy will succeed. That's the solution, there's no other version. There will obviously be a return to the financial rules, and the House and the honourable Members of the opposition must understand that the return to the financial rules will be the key to the next period, because we will not be treated differently from the other European countries in terms of budgetary rules. The same rules will be applied with the other countries. That's the basic deal. However, the question is what rules will mean for a country with a very large debt. Here, then, we have an open negotiation, which will evolve in the next few months and when it is completed - I believe - we will be able in the next medium-term and in the next budget obviously to begin to reflect the policies that will be implemented. I don't have much to say about the Opposition, because the Opposition didn't have much to say. I am sorry to say that. It would be more interesting if we had a real answer. I will say two - three things with regard to the SYRIZA protests, mainly for the Recovery Fund. I would like to say that SYRIZA himself presented a proposal with eleven thousand words and no numbers. He didn't give any evidence of where the money was going to go. It is therefore difficult to criticise him. I cannot criticise someone who does not reveal their true policy. As far as the JRC is concerned, the JRC is still awaiting the crisis that will destroy capitalism. A century has passed and the only crisis that destroyed something was the crisis that destroyed communism, so I have no other comment to make. As far as Mr Velopoulos is concerned, the only comment I have to make is that I find it paradoxical that this insistence on polluting fuels, dirty fuels and even imported dirty fuels. I do not see so much perseverance from Russia and Saudi Arabia who are great producers of oil and gas. I do not understand the time when 50 euros have gone tone, and the prices of pollutants are completely forbidden to produce lignite - ask PPC - because it insists on polluting fuels. It's a mystery I can't answer, tell you the truth, and it's not my job either. With regard to Mr Varoufakis, who was the last, half of his year for the Medium-term for the period 2022-2025, he dedicated him to why he did not close the banks in 2015 while he signed it. Every time he shows up in the House, well or badly hunts this man as a lover, as a remorse of conscience, what he did in 2015. He even sees with his eyes what he did in 2015 all that comes to the future. We show him growth, he sees austerity. We show him tax revenues from growth, we show him tax reductions and he sees an increase in taxes. You know, you can't help someone who's being persecuted by their guilt. He'll have to find that with himself. I will finish by saying that the next day budgetaryly has a very simple rule. We will have and spend revenues to the extent that we increase productivity, investment and promote reforms. That is the policy of the government, and that is why it will succeed, but you have no doubt. There's no alternative route. There's no magic money. There's no money coming out of nowhere. They come from investment and reforms. And this government succeeds, because it has convinced the Greek people of this very simple truth. The Greek people want a better future, they want a future that has jobs for their children, has a better environment, has social benefits, and they now know that this brings about a householded, careful, technically effective and politically reasonable management, such as the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u84	Now Mr Papadimitriou Charalambos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. The medium-term reminiscent of many and many, or at least should be reminded that month of the 'indignant'. Then the memorial was not yet the subject of insurrection. The uprising was the medium term. And it allows me to see the progress that the place has made so that today we can have a medium-term, which, as we would say on another subject, by Greek hands, concerns Greece fully, we have full ownership of what is written there without it, of course, mean that there is not much work to get the basic sizes better. But the truth is one. At the moment, the country is exhausted - we all hope - the last phase of a crisis that no one could have predicted in terms of either the type of crisis or the depth of the crisis or the way in which it would hit the whole society, production and states. So the fact that we can already see in the first two years with one certainty is due to two events which have changed the country. We did not obviously have them in 2011. We did not have the experience of the great ten-year crisis, I would even say the catastrophic experience after 2015. We did not have the experience of the mistakes that the New Democracy party made when seeing only good days in front of the economy, especially in the long term, as the economists say, there are bad ones. The medium term, however, which the Treasury has organised, is more important for another reason. We now have medium-term programmes all of the Member States and are somehow rolling, that is to say, every year we are making sure that there is an adjustment to the data. And the adjustment to data is the most important thing we have is that at the moment Greece has a medium-term that runs along with the other European states. We are not against it, we are not elsewhere, we do not have the problem and others are supposedly, but in any case, some of them really are fine. So Greece is coordinated and that is of enormous importance. It is of great importance for what Mr. Skopje ended earlier, trust is the one that counts. Trusting if you lose, you lose from there a lot and very hard to recover. And the fact that the government at every step ensures that it is in agreement with the real economy, with the institutions as Mr Varoufakis said when he compiled them, is important. Let me get the clue that came out a while ago. The Institute for Economic and Industrial Research has given the climate indicator, it is the best indicator that I at least know, because it told us much earlier than 2009 - only that is enough to say how good it is - that things were not going well. So he gave the index. It's just over in June, just beyond May, but, above all, it's important, at the highest level of the last 15 months and at a level higher than the level we had before the pandemic. So you see that what is being done on the side of the state's management is in line with, goes hand in hand with what society sees out there. And society is all, it's the workers, it's the businessmen too. Only Mr. Tsipras from the position of Chief of Staff Responsibility would he dare say a word like that because it sounds good - obviously sounds good - just to tell him what good ideas he has without any consideration of what the next step is. EUR 800, obviously a target, one in ten gets the basic, the minimum. All the other people who are in difficulty, unfortunately, take much less, because it was widened in the governance of Mr. Tsipras the big problem with those who work regular hours tell them about abnormal, limited hours and the rest is in 'black'. There's an important problem there, and for them I was expecting a man to say something, who wants to be left, even though he's whispering Forbes, and when you're ticking Malcolm Forbes, he's going to say, or that the writers found something rough or that they failed to tell him that Malcolm Forbes said something else very interesting to him personally. He had said - because I see the mayor staring at me - - - "We want others to see us like what we would have done. Good, well, Forbbs, but you don't make the economy. Because when you say 800 and say for thirty-five hours, that is an increase in costs to about 30%, he never said how it would be, who either is clear, something said and perhaps a pilot project. But what will happen to the above tiers? Here we say that we must quickly go to collective bargaining, the minimum must be set by collective bargaining. What does it matter right now to go out beyond the political benefit if it exists, I don't see. And that is where we need to get to, and I hope that the Minister for Finance will be the first rapporteur for this positive report on the confidence he gives in the economy. I would like to take this opportunity to say one that I referred to the Chief of Officer Response so that we don't have any differences of opinion, let's look at the last numbers. We didn't have a recession in '19. The recession started with the pandemic. There's no disagreement. ELSTAT's evidence is there. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Charalambos (Babis) Papademitriou, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And I'll finish with one request. This is where confidence is recovered for another reason, because taxes are being reduced. You see in the medium term that ENVY remains stuck and is an extremely important element of the confidence that must exist. You see, the interest we will pay for the loan, which has been reduced a little already, will remain low, around 4.8 billion. And I want to say that - so you must communicate with the markets, you must communicate with the outside world - all the indications we have are that even if the European Central Bank starts to withdraw surplus liquidity, the Greek economy will borrow on extremely good terms. And it is up to us not only because we will receive a lot of money, of course we will receive, but above all because we will have completed the reform programme until then, we will continue to participate positively in European matters, we will continue in the policy of rising incomes of the whole society, we will continue to be able to absorb funds not only "2.0", but funds that are interested in coming to Greece, making work - beacons, such as that of the Greek that I hope in some time we will have begun to see much more specific things. Most of all, however, we are going to eliminate once and for all from the country - I hope - one thing which has afflicted us very much the accusations that are being launched without anything real, without any actual journalistic or any other investigation. The charges that make the people involved in the governance look deceiving and fortunately collapse in the courts. That's why I want to pay tribute to Stavros Papastavrou, who I supported since I first heard him accused of, because I knew details about it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I am still waiting for Mr Tsipras to keep his promise from the government benches. It's honest. It's what it takes when you're Chief of Officer Opposition. I would remind you that even a few days ago SYRIZA Members were trying to link the NOVARTIS case and a Mrs Niarou who did some strange research - now a few days ago - to NoVARTIS, another dishonesty that breaks down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u86	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u87	I shall conclude, Mr President. And I will not forget that the same people with the valuable help of Mr. Kammenos were the ones who accused previous officials when Greece was hurt that they did everything to steal. I'm talking about Andrico Papandreou. And I do not forget that it is the same ones who supported, even through court proceedings, which I can only say dark pilkystides, the chase of Andreas Georgiou, while the case had expired in 2010 and at the most in 2011, when Greece had cleared its accounts and went ahead. Let's never repeat them and let's all go forward together. It's all I can say and hope. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u88	The next speaker is Mr Evangelos Apostleou from SYRIZA. Mr. Papapas, Mr. Katsotis and the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr. Hetas, will be followed. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the main request in the medium-term framework of a budgetary strategy you have submitted is whether there will be and what level of growth for the period 2022-2025. You've put up the numbers and they'll be very difficult to verify. I wish, for our country, that you will not be disappointed. But I will begin my intervention with the most important factor of the developments that will affect the country's progress, the pandemic. Of course, the vaccinations must go ahead, but your assessments of the course of the pandemic leave a lot of risks to the achievement of the objectives you have adopted and, at the same time, your reference to the development of the productive sector in the country is vague to insignificant. Of course, it will be a maximum mistake if you cover the differences that will exist with privatizations. We stress this, because it is very basic. You admit, in the medium term, that the basic financing of the investments you expect will increase by 88% by 2025 and will come mainly from EUR 70 billion over the next seven years, of which more than 30 billion are under the Recovery and Resilience Fund for the period 2021-2026, I will say more - from what you say is the sixth largest share of the Fund among the twenty-seven Member States of the European Union. I shall therefore repeat, Minister, that you are building the nest up in your expectations and will be bend a clone. I wish you wouldn't bend, but, unfortunately, you'll be disguised. Neither in the information we had some time ago from the Government on the Recovery Fund nor in your proposal today you have made us wiser. So, what do you do with the medium term? You are providing an additional budget space to fund business groups support interventions through state budgets, together with the coarseness of European Union Recovery Fund disbursements. In other words, the guidance is in favour of investors and not of people's needs. Allow me, in particular, to focus on the first pillar, the green transition, for which great interest has been expressed and specific proposals have already been notified. The total resources expected to absorb exceed 10 billion, of which 6 billion come from the Recovery Fund and the remaining 4 billion from private and banking participation. The activities that can be integrated into this pillar are many, such as the exploitation of the country's renewable energy potential. A very large festival has already begun, the transition to the post-literary period, the promotion of large investments in irrigation and flooding projects and so on. However, if we see only the needs for each of these activities, they outweigh the sums allocated. A situation has already been established by the handling of the Government, particularly in terms of authorisations, the producer licences currently granted throughout the country, and the influx of the fund's assets into specific interests is being discounted. On the other hand, all the small and medium-sized enterprises affected by the pandemic that need to return to normal operation will have a problem with both participation - there is and there is a big problem - and that they are not able to support banks. It is difficult today for all these small and medium-sized enterprises to be given basic support, so that they can stand up. At the recent meeting of the Committee on Production and Trade you presented a model of the regions that will enter the fair transition fund to degreeisation. This is a fund that will be financed by the Recovery Fund based on five pillars and needs a total of EUR 5 billion. Honestly, where will all this money be, so that they can cover all the requests that are currently appearing in windy, photovoltaic arcs? They have been licensed and have already been classified as "strategic" investments. We, because you have left the question unanswered about how to change the country's productive model... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need one more minute. We insist that the agri-food sector has a dominant position, because it is a productive sector that is naturally renewed, has high recompense in a short time, and indeed, without requiring high capital it covers the most important aspect of a people's survival, food and at the same time it offers huge export opportunities. There is no doubt that there is a high level of close synergies with other sectors and sectors of the real economy, such as processing, exports, tourism, focus, local trade, etc. The green transformation that already exists, with regard to the new common agricultural policy, is not an exercise that scares us. We will barely serve him and will not make us unsatisfactory. However, we cannot - and this is not forgotten by the European Commission - accept that Greek agriculture today needs to serve quality and ecological products when our country already has all these conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u90	You need to finish it, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u91	...and is among the most environmentally friendly. All of this is certain that they have not been taken into account in the medium term you have tabled. Not even the new CAP agreed yesterday has been taken, nor do we even know whether the strategic plan for rural areas has been tabled and what it contains and whether it has been included.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u92	Complete, Mr. Apostleu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u93	For all these reasons, we are voting against the medium-term.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u94	The next speaker is Mr Ioannis Pappas from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, and after I wish you a good month, let me begin with a historic regression. Like today, six years ago, when by decision Tsipras Greece was dragged into a divisive referendum - parody, our homeland recorded a sad first. Greece became the only country - member of the euro area that failed to pay the International Monetary Fund. With the courtesy of SYRIZA and ANEL, we entered the same list as the countries of the third world such as Somalia, Zimbabwe and Sudan. We were in technical bankruptcy. The banks were closed, the Exchange was closed, the Greek citizens were in line outside the ATMs twenty-four hours a day to make 60 euros and this one once a day. I mention this because these images, events and situations must not be forgotten as far away as they appear, because they were just in the vicinity of yesterday with those of you ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. It is also useful to make a comparison. Six years ago the economy had ceased to operate under the responsibility of the government of Tsipras, the government of SYRIZA - ANEL. Today the Greek economy, in the midst of a global crisis, shows that it passes the cavo and the crisis and looks at the future with optimism and especially with a plan. This is the case with sole responsibility and success of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the Government of New Democracy for which we are proud. Ladies and gentlemen, with the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Medium-term Financial Strategy Framework 2022-2025', we are called upon to draw up the path that our economy wants to take to get out of the contributors to the pandemic. The aim is not just economic development, but also the positive impact of the economy on society which has been severely affected by the pandemic. The objectives, beyond indicators and numbers, but also the ending of the medium term, are many. New jobs by 2025 which will reach the private sector by two thousand, while in the public sector, without overlooking the one-to-one agreement, will be almost a hundred thousand by 2025. Further tax relief for households and businesses by means of a further reduction in taxes and social security contributions. It is time after a year and a half of a pandemic to return to growth and bring recovery that will not only be reflected in tables, but will touch our fellow citizens, which is very important and particularly vital for us who are in the New Democracy area. The medium-term shapes the roadmap for returning to strong growth and largely reflects the confidence that our country has gained from international markets. This confidence, however, is something that has also been won during the pandemic. On this, of course, the government's handling at all levels, particularly at the health level, such as the vaccination programme which is an example and the support measures taken by the government, totalling EUR 41 billion from the start of the pandemic, has helped. Twenty-four billion euros in 2020. 17 billion have been allocated to date, while 2022 has already been planned for aid. Let me remind you: Seven cycles of repayable advance payment, financial instruments of the Guarantee Fund of the Greek Development Bank and of the entrepreneurship fund, suspensions of tax and insurance obligations, reduction of advance tax, VAT rebates, reduction of rents for closed businesses and up to 100% for focus businesses, reduction of insurance contributions, reduction of income tax. These and many more were decisions taken to enable the economy and society to stand in an unprecedented situation. Greek GDP will grow in the 2021-2022s more than any other euro area country, but also more - and I stress this - from the global economy. By 2025 Greece will "run" with a faster and positive growth rate. For 2021 the growth rate is estimated at 3.6%, while for 2022 it is projected to be 6.2%. This involves a cumulative increase in investment by almost 88% and our exports by 43.1%. We will also have a five-point reduction in unemployment over the same period. In addition, we will have - and it is important for our economy - a reduction in red loans to a one-digit percentage within 2022 and investment recovery by the first half of 2023. Ladies and gentlemen, seeing the end of the crisis more clearly, we owe a new environment for our economy. Our weapons of EU funds of EUR 51 billion that we expect as a country from the European Union by 2030 and our export growth from 10.4% this year by 13.7% in 2022 and continuous growth by up to 6% in the coming years. I will tire you with the numbers, but it is necessary to listen to them. It is important to teach them, because as the Deputy Minister said, 11 thousand have testified, but no figures have been seen anywhere. We don't know those words they target and what they say. And finally, you need to learn to tell the Greek people the truth, because it is very important this day. They all need it and, above all, Greek citizens need it. Because we're talking about the future of our country. The general government debt as a percentage of GDP will decrease from 205% this year to 189% in 2022, and will reach up to 156% in 2025. Private consumption increase: Percentages encouraging, almost close to 3% per year. And a rise in private consumption means an increase in the stratum of growth. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. Thank you. Dismantling of unemployment, the rate of which will be between 16.3% this year and 2025, when it will reach 11.1%. Investment growth this year by 7%, 30.3% in 2022, 12% in 2023, while by 2025 it will go to 7.4%. And the rapid increase in investment, as you can see, also draws revenues from privatisation. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, I do not expect either I or any of the New Democracy to vote in the medium term. Revolutionary gymnastics is called, and if it was Olympic sport you could be comfortable getting a medal at Tokyo's Olympic Games this year. Your only abstentions from this exercise were during you were in the government benches and a medium-term then with a SYRIZA seal were good and you voted with your two hands. Do, however, one thanks to us and the Greek people: instead of throwing fireworks to save votes, put forward proposals fertile and serious. The government has proved to us that he is listening to and working out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u96	Christos Katsotis will now be given the floor from the Communist Party of Greece. The Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Heitas, will be followed by Mr Kavvada, Mrs Malama, Mr Mylonakis and Mr Gregoriadis. There is a conspiracy of parliamentary representatives. We put them with speakers from the Members' list. At the end of the first cycle, the Minister will speak from what he has told us. Of course, this is also a question of change. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Who really is concerned about the framework of the 2022-2025 budgetary strategy brought about by the government for a vote? The workers and the people or capital? Is your strategy essential to protect the unemployed with an increase in unemployment benefit without preconditions, to ensure the income of those who work and self-employed are affected by the pandemic? Is it an increase in wages and pensions? Is it the tax relief for workers, the self-employed, the bio-popular farmers? Is it the deletion of debts that drown the people? Is it to stop auctioning and confiscations? Is it to support and strengthen the public health system by recruiting health and other personnel, to build the necessary ICMs, so that people do not die, to create a primary health framework with infrastructure and personnel? Is it to build new students ’ safety rooms, to do fireworks, antimilitary works and other anti - earthquake shield measures? All of this is not just part of your strategy. On the contrary, it aggravates them to satisfy the needs of capital. In the medium term, the cleaners of the Ministry of Finance, Minister, do not fit in. There is no place for the permanentisation of school cleaners, of workers in municipalities with public works programmes, of the four thousand contractors in health. Not all of this fits into your strategy. In the medium term, all the anti-grass-requirements set by the European Union are integrated, in order to ensure even more budgetary space for warm state money and privileges in business groups, with a view to recovering further employment rights and popular needs. It creates new conditions and profit levels for capital with incentives to tax exemptions, new financing and new changes in the lives of workers and the people. You are making the claim of two hundred thousand jobs to justify political support for capital. These are a small part of the one million officially registered, with real unemployment being one and a half million. But what don't you say? That these posts will be in disgraceful terms of pay and work, as they have been shaped by the last rival monarchy you have voted on. The anti-grassrooted law industry, aiming to make workers cheaper, more flexible, has built up a large mass of cheap and wildly exploited workers with no rights to work. This is your strategy. You are giving it all for the recovery of capital gains, with the increasing exploitation. You solve their hands to rob workers, to employ as much as they like, to lay off whenever they want, to pay whenever they want and as much as they want. They demand a restriction and ban on trade union activity, which is literally plastered in the labour movement, that the whole country become a large special economic zone of wildlife and that you have implemented it with the monstrous regime that you voted for a few days ago. The Government, following previous SYRIZA regulations, voted for the first prerequisite of the Recovery Fund, the anti-Fraud Fund, with the main aim of exercising maximum state and employers' violence and terrorism in workers' struggles, in the class movement. That is why all governments have overthrown fundamental democratic and trade union freedoms, have put great obstacles to the participation of workers in their unions, their struggles, and especially the right to strike, in order to implement the overthrows of flagic conquests, such as the eighth, five-day, 40-hour, collective bargaining, collective bargaining, which Mr Papadimitriou says should be through collective bargaining. But yesterday he still voted on the Minister's decision. Furthermore, the introduction of the 10th hour, the abolition of overtime remuneration, teleworking is arrangements for producing greater value for the teleworker, since the increase in working time and the daily distribution increases profitability. The permanentization of the lower wage, by decision of the Minister of Labour, and on the basis of criteria for the profitability of capital, shields business groups from claiming better conditions for employees' remuneration and work conditions. Following the laws passed over time by all governments, demolitioning social security, the new reactionary draft "Security reform for the new generation: Introduction of a capitalisation system for pre-contributions to supplementary insurance, establishing, organising and operating the Social Insurance Fund and related provisions" comes to lighten the green light to privatise supplementary insurance and further escalation of the attack as a whole on social security rights, gambling supplementary pensions. The individual insurance money introduced by the bill means that the protection of old age becomes an absolutely individual case. The pension stops being protection and turns into investment, and the insured ones at risk and may fail and may be on the road. The publications go beyond their attitude to capitalising investors' systems, which say that since interest rates are zero, it does not interest them and requires capital, workers' contributions are also played in gambling so that if they are lost, they are lost. The interruption of the contributions of young people to the current system will create a new economic black hole in the aid of EUR 56 billion, which will again be charged to taxpayers and would jeopardise the pensions of today's pensioners and those who remain in it, which breaks down the government's argument that this bill only concerns young workers and not parents and grandparents, as you say. Business groups require consensus from other political forces that support the path of monopolies and, of course, of their factions and people within the trade unions. The employers' and governmental union offers important services to the objectives of capital. Yesterday, the leading group of GSEE and BSE signed the national collective labour agreement based on the Brutsi-Achtsioglou Act, which is a tool to compress the average wage, while at the same time overall, the cost of living for the family is rising. [[At this point the IV Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the presidential office.]] SYRIZA has a great contribution to the pursuit of the truth that there is another perspective. In the logic of less evil attempts to incorporate labour folk forces into the idea that without a break and a conflict with the path of monopolies, with a government rotation, it could bring a brake to the attack and hope would come. It published its position on labour and it is a feature of the undertakings to the business groups that they do not even mention the abolition of a new law. They talk about 800 euros, but they kept the 534 and took it to 650 and did not bring back the 751 euros. They're talking about thirty-five hours, but four and a half years they've arranged a 12-hour settlement for the doctors, nine hours in the OSE. They make no reference to the New Democracy's labour monarchy, which ensures control by the state and employers' unions and their function which abolishes the right to strike. No mention! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What are the causes that hamper social progress, which is a barbaric in social development? It is the domination of monopolistic groups, the hunting of profit, capitalists, their imperialist associations and their parties. Can the working class, the people with extensive unemployment, the wages of hunger and the work tire, the sharing of a job in two and three, or will it claim the modern people's needs and the ability of our time to implement them?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u98	Mr. Katsotis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u99	I shall conclude, Mr President. Today there are all possibilities for stable work, with rights, a reduction in working time, universal social security, a high level of free health care, health protection and safety at work. There are all the conditions for productive, scientific and technological development, so that there can be pro-collegiate development and a decent life, a work with rights. The attack on the working class is under way. It does not end if the workers do not end up with the power of organization, unity of the working class and a plan to overthrow anti-population policy and educational relations. That's why the KIC is fighting, Mr. Dog. It reveals the designs of capital, its governments. It highlights the painful consequences for the majority of our people. It highlights the need to organise with disgust, disobedience and a counter-attack of the labour movement as a whole by claiming the real needs, and we said that while they can be satisfied - because the development of science took off labour productivity - wealth is inexcusable and unfortunately the profit of a handful of capitalists stands in the way. This is obvious that the working class and the people through their struggles, with the JRC assemble, will overthrow it sooner or later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much. If you were Mr. Lambroulis, I'd let you talk more to him to return it to me when he's president and give me more time. Mr Hetas, Greek Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, followed by Mr Gregoriadis, Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 - half of the planned time. I'll give you seven minutes. I guess you're going a little bit longer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Stavoura, in reply to what Mr Sculakakis said, who has experienced an obsession, as he said, with some polluting forms of energy, I do not know where he was talking about, because hydrocarbons are now probably the lignites. We want at some point in your speech to tell us and you because Greece is forced to close the lignite in 2023, when the German that suggests it goes by 2035. Germany goes until 2035, Poland, Turkey, Serbia. In Serbia, they're building a factory. The Chinese are currently building a lignite factory in Serbia and Greece is closing it, a dot on the map, as if Greece were responsible for pollution throughout the environment. That's great! So now, we'll be reasonable somewhere. Mr Stavoura, what, of course, can one add after the speech of the President of the Greek Solution and our rapporteur, the economist, Vassilis Villiardou? But five things to understand the world and also, if you disagree, tell us. We believe that you are going to the unknown boat of hope, without a complete - patriotic really - plan for our country. We're not driving anywhere, Mr. Stakoura, just numbers that don't come out. We are not driven anywhere by communal tricks, with new Greek Statistics, with "Greece 2.0" and the others. We are not, unfortunately - and we are saying so in a very good mood, nor are we to fight, in a very good mood, I wish we could be disproved - we are not going anywhere with wishing. Your policy is, unfortunately, far below the problems and the challenges facing the country, the highly indebted households out there, business, small and medium-sized enterprises, and especially the workers of Greek citizens. But the broken political choices of your own will be paid by the roughly - roughly - taxpayers Greeks and instead he will be the Golgotha of these citizens who are pulling him out and making it easier for their difficult continuity, you are flogging them. You flogg them because you're on orders from your orders, and the orders are from lenders, foreign interests and banks. Clear things! For the eyes, then, you pooren the Greeks with a new bankruptcy, for them you sell the public property, for crumbs - because they are crumbs - and you call them investments. Because what we get from the sales of public property that is crumbs presents them as investments. And for them, you divide Greeks and Greek society and you create two categories of citizens. You've been bankrupt, blackmailed, and you've reached the point - the last! - even bribe Greeks with the 150 euros to connect it. And this attempt to bribe young people eighteen to twenty-five is collapsed - we have said it yesterday - we will talk about it today - the vast majority of young people, if you go out, if you have children, if you have acquaintances, if you have acquaintances, and friends, you understand that you have turned your back and not only turned your back, has been mad at you. Fortunately - sadly - a small number of nine hundred and forty thousand Greek birds in these ages have been vaccinated by the ninety thousand. It is a good thing that these children have a perception of how you go to go through this, about this ruse in young people. Mr Stavoura - I read in the papers - an official response from the Minister of Finance is asking the Greek Solution: What is the sum you have calculated for these 150 euros? We read that it is EUR 150 million, EUR 130 million, EUR 140 million. We need an official answer. How much is the money you've calculated? We found so many millions to bribe our youths, and at the same time 250,000 euros, 250 hectolitres, didn't we find to give in to the doctors of "Papanikolaos" for the medicine with lymphocytes? Didn't we get that money? Don't say about the choice of the total lockdown government that cost close to EUR 4 billion a month. You also buckled channels with another EUR 100 million, so your political crimes haven't been uncovering for over a year and a half. And now see what you did: you were not here, Mr. Stakoura, the Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, here, from this sacred Step of the House a month and a half ago that you actually did what? You've found the new ones! Now he says "we owed this to the young," a month and a half ago what did he say? "The main cause of dispersal is the fun of young people", "Don't close the eye to those who, with dishonest and irresponsible attitude, undermine the health of many," Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Step of the Parliament a month and a half ago. Then what was the news? Poor thing? And now they're all good guys and we're bribing them? Adonis Georgiadis: "They are spoiled, end!" Bogdan for the occupations and the others: "We eat the snake in our crust." Sunday for the young people who well respect: "But don't young people get on the internet to make a proper CV to find a job and want a job?" That's how disgraceful you were talking about our youth, about our youth. Georgiadis: “Do not the children be ashamed?” I sat last night one by one, and I found them on dates. Mrs Mitsotakis: "Do not target young people, you tell us, as if they are completely irresponsible to young people or above criticism". That's where he used to say that, and now 150 silvers. The kids are wrong, take 150 euros! And we heard the other one, Dora Bakoyannis, talking to a restaurant yesterday: "Let's all put our backs on," says man, "What can we do, Mrs Bakoyannis, that is, to let my kitchen as a chef go out to check out who's going in and who won't? The work of the state, the state, will I, the restaurant?" I mean, for god's sake, these are crazy things! And he said - and it makes sense - that in buses we will reintroduce collectors to see who will go in, who will be vaccinated and who will not? That's who you are and that's what you're gonna do! And if that is true, Mr Stakoura, which we have just read, you have finished the machine. Your blackmail has no mercy! With negative test movements from prefecture to county for the invaders, twelve minutes ago the committee was recommended. If this happens, it's at least creepy, not to be able to move the Greek from county to county without test. So they'll pay four people 80, 100 euros to go eat for test, get test to move, get a PCR there, what are these things? You have announced no privileges, Mr Stakoura, these are not privileges. These are the removal of the democratic constitutional rights of the Greeks. This is what you announced, you have not announced freedoms for vaccinated people, no, you have announced captive for the invaders, that is, anyone who does not submit to your extortion will not go anywhere. Good! That won't do you any good! Take the other way, change the rode, it won't work for you. No vaccine, so without test you imprison the Greeks! Do you put Greeks in prison normally, as I tell you, or with the molecular they will pay, Minister, from their pocket will they be able to cope? Do you know how much a molecular test does, do you know about a four-member family to come out for a meal? He wants 80 euros, 100 euros four people. So what happens now? Is this a job? So say it openly - and I close, Mr President - you have set up, thinking that you are smart, the mandatory vaccination. This is what you have done, you have embedded the Constitution on a continuing and repeated basis, that is what you and your predecessors have been doing for the years that you have been struggling Greece with the party over the years that you have imposed, but be sure that you will soon be judged by the citizens and by the god you are trembling and fearing. The answer will be here very soon. Take the other way, because Greece is on its knees!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr. Heta. Mr Gregoriadis, Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, has the floor at the same time as Mr Heta. Then there is Mr. Kavadas, Mrs. Malama, Mr. Mylonakis, Mrs. Adamopoulou, Mrs. Kafantaris, Mr. Katrinis, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, then you, Mr. Tsakalotos and then Mr. Stavros.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, after Mr Tsakalotos, I and then Mr Stavros.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Brutsis after Mr. Chakaloto? And then let Mr. Stakoras make a judgment. You'll be criticizing Chakaloto and then Starios to you! Oh, no? I'm kidding, it's clear. Here, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, I cannot avoid temptation and begin by referring to what I have heard before, amazed to say, by Minister Psulakakis, who accused almost Mr Varoufakis of coming back with a mania in the same subject, in 2015 that the banks, which this mania - listen to him, listen, the most slandered man in Greece for ten years with this slander, comes from the same mania - with which he shows the lovelies or the former Minister, who follows Mr Varoufakis. So I have to say to Mr. Skolakakis - I know that he is somewhere in the area and I hope he can hear me and come and answer me - that it is not honest politically to forget that just a week ago, as the people say, 'before the people speak threes', that is, a week ago we were here and he was forced as a Parliamentary representative to speak, Mr. Staikoura, to ask him to tell me how Baroufakis damaged the Greek public during the six-month negotiation. And then in response to me he said "closing Greek banks". So it is not the woman who is chasing and forcing Mr Varoufakis to come back to an issue, which he himself has rightly and publicly stated that he does not like to come back, but is Mr. Scully, who as a common slander ten years later continues the same slander, forgive me for the expression, slander. And in order to end this matter once and for all, Mr Stakoura, since you are here, if you are interested in knowing the truth you and the Greek people, do a committee of inquiry now, today, yesterday or the day before, so that every rascal can go to his bench, Mr. Varoufakis can go to jail if he has to. Or does anyone else have to go to prison, anyone else who has been founded and retreated, who has been beaten without being elected, without being elected by the Greek people and so on? Examination of things now for all the memorials or else silence forever! There's no other way! [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Dear Mr. Stakoura, I address you now. I wanted to ask you this: are you messing with Mr Stournara? Do you have a problem with your identity? Because I learned that last week I just left the Chamber and after I had just answered Mr. Stornaras that Mr. Stournaras is responsible for the outflow of funds and for the fact that we arrived here with the Greek banks, you took the floor and said that I accused you. I would like to make it clear to you, therefore, that under no circumstances have I accused you. I don't think you're as blessed as Mr. Stournara. And I explain immediately, because I know that Mr. Brutsi is also often uprooted when I directly blame his friend and colleague for his helplessness. However, how else could a Member of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, be described as a Greek central banker when he at the beginning of December 2014, when the governor of the bank of our country, is making an unprecedented warning about the global chronicles of all the central banks in the world about a future lack of liquidity that is going to come to the country, obviously saying if Mr Samaras is not re-elected? With this statement, of course, as you know, Mr Stournara, why are you an economist and I an actress, he automatically triggered a bank deposit exit, so did he act contrary to his constitutional mission? Instead of ensuring the stability of the country's banking system, the central bank of which it was chairing, for micro-political reasons undermined it, Minister. Small-party ruler of New Democracy instead of our national banker in charge. That's Mr. Stournaras! And of course you, Mr Staikoura, are not, Mr Stournaras, because you have, in fact, been less veteran, even in my opinion. And I come to the point. Where is he today, Mr. Mitsotakis? Where's our Prime Minister? His medium-term plan is about which he triumphed with all right from what I've learned. Where is he? Isn't he here to defend it? Where's the Chief of Officer County? Where's Mr. Tsipras? Where's the leader of the third party? Where are the leaders of all the parties? You know, it's a comedian. At the level of political leaders only the Greek Solution and we have been placed on an issue like your Government's medium-term plan for the years to come. And one wonders: Why isn't the Prime Minister here? Why isn't he here? Why are you avoiding, like the hell with the ink, a top-level confrontation? Here you come for flea fuck. If Mr. Mitsotakis doesn't get a letter every week, where he says that our young people will get a little bit bit bitten by the vaccine, to pinch the hundred and various such vulgarities - apologise for the expression - we can't. But that is not the way people go, to address a Prime Minister so to young people. So where is your Prime Minister if he doesn't have a pit? I'll explain immediately, Mr. Stournara, who's the pit. First of all, the medium-term plan you are tabling today is at the same time your confession, Minister and dear government of New Democracy, that the fifth memorandum is no longer before the gates, but it is here, has been in the middle of this plan since today. You'll tell me where I'm extracting this, if I'm arbitrary, because I'm an actor. Oh, no! I am a Member of Parliament, a poor MEP of the Greek Parliament, and I will tell you immediately where I am exporting it. Mr. Stournara, your medium term provides for a haircut...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Stournara?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u107	I'm sorry, Mr. Staura, I meant.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u108	That's what you said next time!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u109	No, I didn't, Mr. Staura, I didn't! This time I made the mistake. And I did it because I just insulted you in your class telling you you're not so unwilling. You have not made such statements "take the money if we do not rule out, rich friends of ours." You haven't done it. In order not to be confused, I will say 'Mr Minister', so that we can both be satisfied. So, dear Minister, what does it mean when your medium-term provides a surplus of 3.7 primary in relation to the percentage of national gross income? Do you know what it means? It means that it also goes beyond this poor primary surplus of the sad government of Tsipras, when she configured. 2025 would be just 2.2%. You managed to make it bigger. Do you know what the primary surplus is, Minister? He is the well-known "elephant" in this huge mastic, for which we have been discussing many days, which came back to the room again. The pause, the redemption of the Greek people for three years is due to the pandemic. Institutions are analgesite, analgesite of the most analgesic thing. They're going to drink our blood again! And I see it very clearly. It's 2.2% in 2023 and 2.8% in 2024. These primary surpluses, Minister, only come out in two ways: reductions in wages and pensions and increases in taxes. Tax increases very well confess your medium-term plan, I don't have to say it myself. Anyway. Mr. Varoufakis told you all this. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, in order not to get far, I would like to address two issues of topical and urgent importance. One is the bribery of young children. Listen! The conclusion is one and clear. You've lost your children and I'll tell you how you've lost your children. You have lost them for a year and a half now that they are to blame for launching the pandemic, for which you are to blame, when it is completely inaccurate and for no reason, as was shown after all by the revenues, you have opened tourism with a sample, I would remind you, one in the seventies that cross our borders with one of your own algorithms, which no one knows where you found him and how you invented him. So you know how you lost our children's confidence? You lost it when you beat them last year, you beat them, Mr. Chrysochoidis, not personally, in the small square of Kipseli, in the second square of Kipseli, when they went there forty, forty people of high school and high school to tear them apart. You know what these kids saw next day? They watched their parents stacked in a car with another hundred and fifty parents working to get to work. When they saw themselves, they saw a government working on small gaming, saying to them, "I'll kill you in the wood, because you came with ten other peers to party here in the square in open space and I'll let your dad and your mom die of COVID in a car with another hundred and fifty people"! And as if it were not enough to lose their trust, but - and of course I will say that - you have also lost the confidence of the elderly, as it turns out that only about 60%, 58% of the old people - who are now closed, are not corrected - have been vaccinated. And that's your achievement! And after you have lost the confidence of children and older people, now comes bribery. They are not native to your children, Minister, Prime Minister, to swing mirrors! With the EUR 150 you will remember them and lose those who intended to be vaccinated. And I have finished leaving, Mr President, with a comment that I think is symbolic and semantic. Poor Pablo Picasso made a painting in 1909. For those who want to know, he went to Paris in 1900. And there he was greatly influenced by Toulouse - Lautrec, who died in the same year of 1900. In order to self - independence, Pablo Picasso invented himself, since the beginning of 1900, a few years after Toulouse - Lautrek’s death, in his famous blue period. This work, therefore, which gave the Greek people the opportunity to resist Nazism by Pablo Picasso remained a century and ten years unsalted. This wonderful work of the blue season of this huge artist has never fallen down, Mr President, for a century and 15 years! He didn't even fall under the hands of the thief who stole him from what he looks like, 'cause he doesn't have any marks! But it fell down when it became a component of a cheap fiasco of a cheap minister, two cheaply inappropriate ministers! And leaving, I say inappropriate to Mrs. Mendoni. I have here, ladies and gentlemen, a Greek people who can hear us, "SOS Culture", because Ms. Mendoni, apart from making blows, throwing and trampling paintings of global heritage for the whole world, she has no idea how to feed hungry actors after a year and a half of pandemic. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, too. Mr. Kavvadas has the floor from New Democracy, followed by Mrs. Malama. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first I wish to wish you all a good month. The bill we are discussing today concerns the future. It makes predictions, reflects the results of a development plan that has already been implemented. But there is one condition for its success, our health, the health of all of us, each individual and the protection of public health as a whole. To have growth, we must be able to produce. We should have open shops and businesses, open factories, be able to offer services and generally move our economy. That is why you will allow me to begin my speech today with an appeal to the Greek citizens: Immediately! Armor yourselves against this insidious enemy who even when we believe that we have defeated him, find ways, mutate, and uncultivate again and even more aggressive. I appeal to the young people to be vaccinated. I appeal to the middle ages that are at the most productive phase of their lives, not to be afraid. I appeal to the most suspicious not to believe the conspiracy scenarios for vaccines. Medical science is here to be responsible for man. Inoculate! Protect! Protect your familiar and fellow humans! Inoculate to return to our normal life, economy, sociality, friends and activities, once and for all! Coming back to the bill, ladies and gentlemen, I would say that the vote of the Medium-term Financial Strategy is linked to the government's choice to promote support for the development process, a choice based on a structured and coherent plan. Its foundation is to use resources from the Recovery Fund, the NSRF, private investment, and the Public Investment Programme, which will amount to EUR 28.3 billion over the three years 2022-2025. Of these, EUR 24.4 billion comes from the co-financed section and EUR 4 billion from the national strand. Undoubtedly, the Medium-term Financial Strategy Framework has been shaped within the particular conditions created by the pandemic. A rational plan was also needed to deal with the consequences of the pandemic. It is no coincidence that the priorities set have contributed to having a medium-term with clear development targets today. In the last sixteen months, despite the marginal and unprecedented circumstances, the Greek economy has stood up. They contributed the targeted support measures. Within two years 2020-2022, the government has allocated or will make more than EUR 40 billion available to support businesses, workers and the real economy. Employment, compensation and financial assistance have been maintained, specific business capital support programmes have been initiated in focusing and tourism and in other sectors. Cash assets were maintained at a high level. There was prudent financial management that was rewarded with market confidence. In this period of time, not only have there been no tax burdens, but - to the contrary - we have had a reduction in taxes. Let me remind you of the reduction in the tax advance for freelance professionals and businesses, the reduction in the rate of taxation for businesses to 22%. It is the second reduction made by the Government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis after the first decrease from 26% to 24%. I would also remind you of the suspension of the Special Solidarity Contribution that the previous government had converted it into a permanent tax, also increasing its rates, the reduction in insurance contributions by three units. The medium-term framework of a fiscal strategy reflects the dominant objective of this government, which is summed up in just one word: 'development'. Estimates and estimates refer to high and sustainable growth rates over the coming years. 2022 forecasts growth of 6.2%, 2023 4.1%, 2024 growth of 4.4% and 2025 3.3%. It is estimated that GDP of around EUR 165 billion this year will reach EUR 217 billion in 2025. The framework established by the government and the reforms create the prerequisites for increasing private investment. In 2022 it will be the first big leap. Investments will increase by more than 30%, with a double-digit figure in the coming years. The most important thing, however, in the forecasts of the Medium-term Financial Strategy is the creation of new jobs. It is estimated that two thousand new jobs will be created by 2025. Greece, which until a few years ago recorded beastly unemployment rates, for the first time in 2025 will have unemployment close to 10-11%. This unemployment rate, however, begins to deviate from 2022 when it is expected to fall to 14.4%. In 2023 it will be reduced to 13.2% and 2024 to 11.9%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the difficult position in which the Qualified Opposition has come. They expected memoranda, restrictive policies, new taxes, and instead see a clear development policy, investment aid and a reduction in tax burdens. Tax revenue, ladies and gentlemen, is not being built through overtaxation. This is the easy way for you, but the painful way for the millions of Greek citizens. Increasing tax revenue can be achieved through growth, GDP growth, while at the same time creating a budgetary area allows for tax reductions. The medium-term outlines a Greece that spins a page and enters a dynamic growth orbit. Changes the productive model, goes to a new 'green' and sustainable economic model, achieves the digital transformation of its economy, creates new jobs. The vast majority of citizens support this choice, they support Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr. Kavada. Mrs Malama has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, and then the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Katrinis, will speak. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the training of the Medium-term Financial Framework must be based on reliable estimates and forecasts in order to strengthen and strengthen the stability of the Greek economy in general, encourage investment and have a reliable economic plan both internally and abroad. Are there any evidence in the medium term presented to us by the government? Of course not. This is an exercise on paper, which does not seem to be believed by the head of the Ministry of Finance itself. The government’s medium term today was written to be reviewed in a maximum of two months, when the curtain of the summer government account will fall. This medium-term should be withdrawn because it is completely out of place and time. No one believes the predictions. No one believes the numbers he mentions. No one believes in his credibility, because very simply the government built it on the basis of its own communication needs rather than the real Greek economy. In particular, is there anyone at Eurogroup who believes that the Greek economy will develop in 2021 to 3,6 % growth and 2022 to 6.2 % growth? Such a development explosion did not occur in Greece in its most golden times. Why are you writing such gross lies? Why are you not saying that in 2020 the primary deficit reached 12 billion, that is, half a memorandum? 12 billion is precisely the loss that the economy has suffered since the collapse of last year's tourism. This year will be different? Already tourism is heading for a collapse. Perhaps the year is, unfortunately, worse than last year. So how are you gonna raise all that money you're talking about? So lie, first, the supposed development explosion. I guess we're on the way to a material explosion. In the second place, the assumption that private consumption will rise by 2.6% this year and by 2.9% of the year. Go outside a little bit and look at Hermos' image. Go to the commercial markets of other cities to see if there's anyone shopping. Talk to producers, talk to agricultural processors and ask them what the world is shopping for. Go to a supermarket and see the elevations in the first need. Go get gasoline in your car to see how far the litre of fuel has been up. How, then, will private consumption rise? With tartar tourism and precision in heights? With the unpaid overtime of "Hajidakis Workshop"? Or with the voucher vaccine is the world going to buy? That's a third lie that we're expecting an investment explosion. You say that in 2021 private investment will increase in Greece by 7% and 2022 by 30.3%. But how can you claim that? Where exactly and from whom will these investments be made? For the moment, however, we see only the deinvestment of the Greek economy. In your two years of governance, the two major tourist groups in Greece, the "THOMAS COOK" and the "Mousenides" Group collapsed. PITSOS is closed. It's closed over 20% of small and medium-sized enterprises. Air transport, airports and motorways have been dissolved only through state funding. The agricultural sector lost over 40% of its export dynamics and you are talking about growths in private investment in percentages even China would be jealous of? And with these numbers will you go defend the credibility of the Greek economy against the Eurogroup? The only truth that exists in this medium-term is the truth of the overcompensation of the Greek economy. There's no political makeup. 185 billion debt in 2021 and over 200 billion in 2022 and 2023, i.e. almost twice when we entered the first Memorandum. If this is what we sum up the red loans that have been launched and the private debt to the state, i.e. the debt to tax and insurance funds, then we understand that the Greek economy is a 'wall' ready to explode. You, instead of taking measures to relieve this debt, increase taxes, as you have recently done with the objective values of property. And where does this all lead? But of course, towards a rapid recession. But there is something in the medium term that you are trying to hide at all costs. It's your commitment to primary surpluses. You are committed to primary mammoth surpluses for the years 2023 and 2025, 3 billion surpluses - you say - in 2023, 5 billion 700 million in 2024 and 8 billion in 2025! Really, have you agreed to these numbers with our lenders? If so, say it, because practically that means you're planning a new memorandum. And you accidentally push these insurmountable targets for the years immediately after the end of your government service. Are you planning to escape and load the account to the next? Same thing you did in 2012. How will this money be collected from the ruins of the Greek economy? From the 'burned land' of Greek tourism, from the marble of Greek agricultural production and processing; But I guess that's none of your business, because you know that then you won't be in the government and someone else will be asked to solve the problem again. The medium term that you are quoting today is, in short, a memorial of government inconsistencies and affliction towards professionals, against workers, against all those who are in difficulty. We call on you to tell the truth and, above all, to change a mixture of economic policy if you want to leave something upright when you leave power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u116	Here you go, Minister, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Ahtsoglou, on 9 June 2021, said: 'It is a given that there will be positive growth rates close to 3% in 2021'. Find them between you two. Will they be noted or will they not be noted? But you say, but your department chief says. Secondly, I have taken the floor to table a table, because I understand that you often repeat it, colleagues of the Opposition. You say that no one believes us, that we lie, inconsistency, intriguing, that 3.6% that we have for 2021 is the most optimistic indicator there is. I am presenting to the Minutes - and I would like you to comment on them - the Piraeus Bank appreciates 6.3% this year. Scope Ratings 6.5%. National Bank 5.7%. DBRS 5%. The State Budget Office in Parliament, headed by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Finance on SYRIZA, 3.6% -4.8%. The Bank of Greece 4.2%. HSBC today 4.5%. The European Commission 4.1% and the OECD - I will go back to what you referred to in the budget because it said 1% - more than 3.8%. So, we're the most conservative in assessments of all the houses and you say we're isolated? Please comment at some point.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u118	Mr Katrinis Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u119	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the medium-term framework of a fiscal strategy put forward by the government reflects its efforts to transform desires into assessments. Sublime critical data, squares the circle in some cases and in others hides the Plan B that definitely exists. The pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, has highlighted the need to revise the rules of the Stability Pact and this debate has already been opened in Europe. First Mr Draghi made the beginning. Oddly enough, the Greek Government is avoiding this debate, and if not it should take relevant initiatives, at least taking part in it, at a time when our country is a country where public debt reaches 210% of GDP and the application of the rules of the Stability Pact will be extremely painful for the Greek economy and especially for Greek citizens. The fact that Germany does not want to open this debate does not, of course, mean that the government should be afraid to mention the need to change these rules. And this very fearful way of dealing is reflected in the medium-term that we are discussing today. For example, the forecasts for the primary surpluses. The primary surpluses of 2.8% in 2024 and 3.7% in 2025 are too high for the Greek economy and we all know that in this Chamber. The realistic and feasible scenario would be surpluses of 1.5% which would also provide the necessary financial space for the growth of the economy. The most impressive thing, however, is that the government is setting higher primary surplus targets than those imposed in the country with the SYRIZA memorandum providing for 2.2% surpluses for the period 2023-2030 and I say that it is a good target. Foresight!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u120	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u121	You put him in, Minister. You say that we will succeed from the surpluses. It was a target.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u122	Not a target.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u123	They don't force it on you, good, you want it. So you put it. So I call on you, Minister, right now, to tell us if the over-estimated growth targets are not met, to increase investment by 30% in 2022, how will you get the targets or forecasts for primary surpluses of 2.8% in 2024 and 3.7% in 2025? For ladies and gentlemen, a surplus of 3.7% is of EUR 7.5 billion. Can you, Minister, commit today that you will not impose any new tax burdens? Because in the medium-term forecasts there is an increase in tax revenue in cumulatively 12.5 billion by 2025. If the objective of high growth rates is not met, how will you balance the loss of tax revenue targets? Why are you talking about tax reductions and, at the same time, you are considering an increase in tax revenue for the coming years. Let me remind you that the same scenario was the budget scenario in 2021 and now it is in the medium term and you are revising the targets by EUR 2 billion. So we're talking about paper designs. You increase taxes, you charge them to the citizens, but this revenue is not collected. Is that what we call that? Here the AIA figures for the first quarter in 2021 show a new maturity of more than 2.16 billion and more than one million eight hundred and fifty thousand taxpayers under forced recovery measures. That's the reality. At the same time, the taxpayers from whom you forecast that in the next few years - even you are talking about normality, we will also have tax normality - will have to pay increased revenues, they will have to pay tax obligations that have been suspended for fourteen months, tax obligations that have become redundant, the current tax obligations - we also add to these obligations in the insurance funds - and, of course, 5 billion back from the repayable advance. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is talking about sixty-nine categories of support measures in the middle of a pandemic totalling EUR 41 billion. This, of course, includes, in some cases, all six trillions that have been leveraged by the banks, as well as a reduction in revenues mainly - not universally - in commitment payment suspensions. First observation, did these interventions get place? Some of them got caught. However, according to a study by the Greek Financial Council recently published government support measures did not obtain a high percentage of lost income, since the country ranks in the sixteenth place, with a 41.2% replacement among the other European countries that adopted support measures. Secondly, I would like to say that I am very pleased You support growth in the investment explosion by 2025, mainly on the basis of the use of the recovery fund, which is a reasonable scenario. We have put different perspectives on the lack of added value for the domestic economy, which also confirms the medium-term, since the increase in imports into goods of 6.2% in 2021 and 8.9% in 2022, due to equipment for the projects of the project "Greece 2.0", shows that most investments are based on the introduction of technological equipment outside and not on domestic added value, especially for the Greek industry and processing. In investments in old capital that you anticipate increases of 30% we are talking about today, obviously not only with the Government of New Democracy but with a time-lag, in the 20th position between sixty-four positions in the IND, while in the last thirteen years we have been in very low positions. And it is of great importance what the direct investments that will be selected are, since in 2020 the majority of foreign direct investment involved investing in real estate, in red loans and in capital increases. These are not investments that the Greek economy needs today. Third point. It speaks of the medium-term economic transition to the post-COVID era, with a gradual lifting of support measures, with measures to be implemented in the second half of the year already announced for many months. There was a confusion here, of course, because the Minister for Development came out yesterday and said that there was no money to give the next time if we had to take restrictive measures. Nowadays, Mr. Scorchos comes out and says we don't have to take any restraining measures, like he's an epidemic and he knows the evolution. We all refrain from creating problems, but no one can be sure today that the "Delta" mutation and its possible spread will cause public health or endurance problems in hospitals. Here, then, the certainty that we will not have to take measures reminds me of the budgetary certainty of 2021, which said that we will end in January 2021 with the pandemic, that we will not have to give money beyond March 2021 and all this has been revised very quickly and at a very high, but necessary burden, and that we would certainly not be able to blame the government. The Bank of Greece's previous report also warns at the same time about the risk of the viability of many businesses and jobs if support measures are withdrawn sharply, as the government lips actually say. The Government is talking about an economic policy in the medium-term instruments written 2020-2021 aimed at preventing the exit of viable businesses from the market. And I ask myself, ladies and gentlemen, who determines what sustainable businesses are? The banking system which systematically supports the Greek economy, and especially now that there is a great need for liquidity? The banks themselves who do not currently give loans are the same banks that the government expects to finance the economy in the years to come? Just two days ago, the Minister took an initiative, held a meeting, called on all the players, bankers and, if I am not mistaken, Mr Minister and a recommendation - there is a glimpse of the conditions and conditions of liquidity, but even in the programmes of the development bank for small businesses there is not much interest, because the small professionals and entrepreneurs themselves, because of the bank's tactics, are too hesitant. I even read a post that the bank has sent fifty thousand information notes and so far only a thousand five hundred applications. So the evidence of the Bank of Greece's exhibition in this piece is relentless. The important resources collected by the banks were not channelled into lending. I have received exactly the interim report on monetary policy, as it says. Banks are crediting the economy with the support, in particular, of the Development Bank's programmes. In the first quarter of 2020, the banks continued to direct more of their loans to large businesses than to small and medium-sized enterprises, the credit extension to households continued to decrease in 2020 and the first quarter of 2021 and the interest rates on loans, although they are reduced - indeed - in relation to last year, diverging significantly in relation to the euro area. The lack of liquidity, therefore, proves the greatest problem of the economy and business today and the market image after summer, I fear, will be very difficult if we do not take immediate and drastic measures to strengthen liquidity by involving the banking system and not the selective strategy they have adopted so far. Ladies and gentlemen, in the medium term, there are many zeros for 2022. I am reminded of the zeros provided for in the 2021 budget, which have, of course, been revised, since the economy, according to the government, will return to normal pace. We all wish that. I wish the pandemic wouldn't affect us. No special purpose allowances, no special unemployment allowances, zero liquidity programmes with a guarantee from the public. I do not understand that, Minister. At least in the part of the liquidity in the banks with the public guarantee, it should be foreseen that these programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises will continue. Zero to support the primary sector. However, it provides for EUR 15 million to assist airports and airlines, as if the whole economy would return, but only air transport would have a problem. For the primary sector you say it has proved resilient, so it seems to the government that there is no need for support. Furthermore, it is no coincidence that despite the many problems of farmers in 2020, the 150 million euros that Mr Stagiras had given the Ministry of Rural Development were not used to absorb, whereas for the period 2020-2021 we all know, in particular, in the province, that there are still consequences and problems with loss of income due to the pandemic, and the sums that will total are 184 million euros for 2020-2021. Mr. Skakakis spoke of a serious improvement in the banking system in committee. He did not say to us that the banking system has been in vacant air for a long time. Increases in share capital in banks. Bond loans and efficiency capital upgrades account for more than EUR 20 billion that banks will need in the coming years. Also, Mr. Skylakakis spoke of confidence in Greek bonds from abroad, but did not mention the footnote from the Bank of Greece about the visible risk of increasing interest rates in case of the end of the "PPP". Also, the Deputy Minister spoke of the very large reduction in red loans, but did not mention the risk of weakening the bank's capital base due to the policy of reducing red loans, according to the Bank of Greece's report. For the 'GREAT I' and 'GREAT II' programmes, I do not know the amounts. Are you saying that in 2020 only EUR 23 million were disbursed and you predict 314 in 2021? As far as I saw from the Ministry's announcements, it was more than the sums disbursed in 2020 for the "GEOFYRA" and "GEYRA II" programme, I believe that the number of applications, Mr Minister, does not confirm the optimistic estimates of subjection of over 100 thousand enterprises in a programme that would indeed be a sample of support for enterprises at this very difficult time. As far as the extrajudicial system is concerned, we have no picture of how many applications have been made to date. I say this because on the extrajudicial platform, unfortunately, more than seventy bodies have to go in to be operational. Ladies and gentlemen, in the medium term, it is predicted that the cost of extending the reduction in insurance contributions of 2022 amounts to EUR 816 million and EUR 767 from the suspension of the solidarity levy. From there on, however, there is no reference to budgetary costs for years to come, i.e. there is no budgetary burden. So if there is no reasonable and convincing response from the Ministry, one can conclude that the activation of specific measures is until 2022 alone. Will you maintain these measures after 2022? Will you extend their application to civil servants and pensioners? These are some questions that I think should be answered. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality is quite different and it is certainly very far from the beautiful and over-estimated estimates contained in the medium-term. I would remind you that the Greek economy before the pandemic began was in recession, as is confirmed by ELSTAT's figures. Let me remind you that the vast majority of Greek small and medium-sized enterprises have no access to banking. Let me remind you that the debts to taxes and the insurance funds are increasing and I am afraid that they will be launched soon, since the citizens will have to pay the obligations that have been suspended and the current obligations, with the cigarettes on the market being clearly reduced. I would also remind you that in our country the accuracy has come to light, the appreciation of basic foods and the government just likes to say that capitalism cannot intervene and regulate when we see price increases. That's what Mr. Georgiadis said last week. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the pandemic 'frozen' developments and covered with a veil the reality and 'frozen' political time as well. From now on, however, it is time for everyone to be truthful. Mr. Mitsotakis has deliberately put all the options on the table. He knows that he cannot continue to govern in the same way and within the same framework by the autumn of 2022, when he will be forced to bring to Parliament a completely different budget that will reveal the painful reality for the majority of citizens. That's why early elections remain in his design, no matter what he says, no matter how much he gives assurances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Mylonakis from the Greek Solution has the floor. Here comes Mrs. Adamopoulou from Mera25. You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I do not know if Mr Gregoriadis knows anything more and if in a few days' time we see Mr Stournara, but today you will hear it. I don't know if the government, Minister, is walking if you're getting out of the world at all. After Mr Scarcho, who announced this morning the economic extermination of the invaders, the committee of so-called experts is now coming to make announcements. I don't know if you've been asked about Greeks' financial hardship, but I think they know something. Only - says - with a negative test will the invaders move from prefecture to prefecture, i.e. 65% of the Greek people. So, if anyone goes from Athens to Alexandroupolis that passes ten counties, does he have to run a test and be negative? You should probably stop these Stalinosist methods, because soon we will see at the edge of every prefecture wire, soldiers with guns, and the command may be given 'cleaning the invaders'. I think you might do that too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u126	To God! What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u127	Cut the jokes. Mr. Brutsi, listen to me, because fun has its limits. The Greek people can't stand you any more. If you want, you're going to elections now. Parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement said you were going to elections. No, she won't go to elections, but with the thought only of going down the sidewalk, she's not going to think about the elections. Since the plaque must be cut, please too, vaccination certificates. A letter was already lodged to the President of Parliament by the President of the Greek Solution, Mr Velopoulos, to submit to the President of Parliament all the certificates of vaccination for all the Members - and the three hundred - to see here who are smart and who are wicked. You will also listen to them, Minister, because you are the government and you are elected by the Greek people. You're going to Fhotida tomorrow and you're going to ask for the world's vote. There may be people with health problems with allergies whose family doctor doesn't allow them. Should each man say "I have a health problem, I have an allergy, I have my heart, I have one, I have the other"? But you're telling me that the doctor will do the paperwork. So you have to apologise to each other? Personal data. Let the tavern know what I've got. No, man, that's not the case. Well, to cut the plate, the vaccination certificates are to be lodged with the President of the Parliament, openly submitted to the House and come out as you were on the internet to find out who's vaccinating people and who doesn't do, and whoever's in trouble is saying that. Leave them smart! Mr Skeylakakis came out earlier and said, Minister, that the medium-term programme we have presented today and we are discussing and we expect it to be in line with our forecasts. Halima's fairy tales! We told you a few months ago that your budget programme is not going to come out, you will be forced to bring corrigendum. Here, isn't it a corrigendum? Isn't it corrigendum? Isn't there a corrigendum, Minister? Nothing fixs? Everything going great in this government, in this country? Is the Greek people so happy, economically developed? It's all perfect, then! You came and saved Greece and you, like the previous ones. Whatever SYRIZA left unburned, you guys are burning it now. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sakhara Sakhara, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council,]] We all need to understand one thing, that the country, Minister, is constantly producing deficits and will produce deficits and debt is constantly growing. You are a leading economist, especially in the financial sector, which is very serious. So, let's see, we have a primary field? Nothing, half dead. Secondary sector, processing, industry, do we? Dead. And let's just rely on the tertiary sector, on service provision. That's what we're doing. Service provision. But let's just say it just so the Greek people can understand it. In a house when there is no income in it and the family is constantly borrowing, what does it produce? Debt. Isn't that right? Isn't it debt producing? Debt. If he doesn't produce wealth and generates debts, sometime he'll stop lending you the other guy or take you home or take you off the sidewalk to do other jobs. This thing can't be fooling people all the time. You haven't done anything for two years either in the primary sector. Now Mr. Dendias says we don't need hydrocarbons, we don't want to export oil. We don't want anything after all. What do we want? Ten farms, ten wind turbines going around - around producing some power to conjugate some and some photovoltaics. Instead of sowing our fields, getting food for the Greek people, filling them with photovoltaics and making the farmer a small investor, a small businessman. People are filled with such photovoltaics everywhere. Go to Kopaida in the lake, go right, left to see what's going on. I have no more time to go into individual analyses, we could talk enough. However, because Mr. Villardos also spoke, I, Mr. Minister, if you want to use it, if you want to read it, will present to Parliament the new updated programme of the Greek Solution. It's four hundred ninety pages. In this context, in a practical way, the government will see how a country can develop. And I'm not talking about the macro-economy, I think we should start sometime producing wealth. We don't produce wealth. So this is a manual, which I think the Ministry of Finance can use. If you want to take a look, I'll submit it to the Minutes of the House. Now it has been updated and we can discuss it if you want in some paragraphs both the financial system and the economy and the everyday life of the economy, but also the long-term programme that Mr. Skulakis said. [[At this point, MP Antonios Mylonakis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned new update of the Greek Solution, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Why would I tell you something? And I'm finishing this. The loose fiscal policy we now have and gives you the right not to tighten the leashes to the Greek people, who are ready to fall into bed, will be in 1922, a loose fiscal policy. Since 1923, the European Union's budgetary policy has been tight on us. Then what do we do, Minister? Then when we have to pay, what do we do without produce anything? So the whole world must understand that we simply have to implement the very simple things, do not go to the difficult mathematics and the equations that the average Greek citizen does not understand. We can't make fun of the world. Since September Greek citizens will see PPC's accounts uploaded. We're saying that now so they don't get to double-cross them, it's gonna be over 30% of the increase in the bills. You are going to privatise part of the water and you know it very well that, where it has been implemented, Spain, Germany, Portugal, France and again, it has returned to public and municipal enterprises. What we want to say is stop doing things that you will regret tomorrow, because the Greek people do not forgive. Impressive everywhere! The supplementary pensions and pensions of the Greeks were lost with the Stock Exchange, with the company "DECA" - remember, Minister - who bought and held bank shares of the National Bank and other banks. No one was punished there, none of the company ‘ECA’. So you're going to do the same now. In other words, supplementary pensions will be collected in a pound - you say it - and it will be possible for Mylonakis, who is the manager to manage them as he wants to manage the money, to put them on the Stock Exchange, to invest, etc. And if that money is lost, the impunity won't be blamed. But the citizen will not have his pension after thirty years. It's very simple. The Greek Solution will not vote for this medium-term, because it is something you cannot afford to even discuss. So we need to start from scratch at some point to build a primary, secondary sector to get into the tertiary sector and get the country out of the deadlock. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u128	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u129	Madam President, I would like the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u130	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Madam President. I just wanted to make a statement in the Minutes, because Mr Gregoriadis previously questioned something I said in a statement from him on 23 June to my face with a relative dose of irony. I am presenting to the Minutes what he has said and hope to correct what he has said. Apparently, he was wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Adamopoulou from Mera25 has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much, Madam President. So the draft law we are discussing today has the title ‘Medium-term Financial Strategy Framework 2022-2025’. A nice title, a bourgeoisie, but to be a little understandable and more self-evident than the citizens, who are particularly anxious to monitor developments in the country's finances in fact, this bill is not much or much more than a government prediction cassava for the years 2022-2025. So the problem is that, Minister, a reasonable man cannot have the slightest confidence in your predictions. And that is not because the various models for forecasting the financial data and issues are useless, but because there is widespread concern that you are not honest. The election account of the New Democracy was to state in an election that it will negotiate with the institutions the reduction of the superfluous primary surpluses. In fact, the institutionalised framework from the previous government was clear, 3.5% primary surplus up to 1922.2% of GDP from 1923 to 2060. The pandemic came, which did not abolish, but suspended, temporarily frozen the institution requirement for this headpiece. And we are coming today in the medium-term framework of a fiscal strategy for these years, which is what it is doing? It restores Greece to the memorial order of the high primary surpluses. Mr Varoufakis also said it, 2% for 2023, 2.8% for 2024 and please 3.7% for 2025. This, of course, because, as Mr Varoufakis reminded you, you missed the great opportunity for the Eurobond, you missed the opportunity in April 2020 to veto, so that all these burdens can be transferred from the backs of European states to the European Union itself. This money now is money which will be paid through bloody taxation and brutal cuts by Greek taxpayers themselves. The pensioners, the insured, the unemployed, that is, the Greek society will pay them. It is not money which will simply be deducted from the economy, but will not even be recycled within the Greek economy, nor even as a transfer of payments, even as allowances, even to strengthen public education, public health, to strengthen public security. It is money, which will actually break the private sector, because they entail brutal cuts, and it is assumed - that your account is that they are going to see a capital tax on the service of a public debt. What public debt are we talking about? We are talking about an unsustainable public debt. So this figure, which you promote, is undevelopmental, which will cause Greece an irreparable underdevelopment. You also do not present the real situation in our country in relation to the recession. We've told you since the beginning of the pandemic that the recession will be painful. You were talking about 0% to 1.5% of GDP, and we had warned you as a PARTA25 that it would be ten to twenty times worse. And of course, we were confirmed, so you had to revise, you had to admit your mistake. The same unrealistic and unrealistic and unrealistic forecasts were your budget forecasts, macroeconomic and budgetary figures. And to show you how much you fell out, especially in the GDP of 2021, you fell out by 33%, since it is expected to increase by 3.6% compared with 4.8% that you presented in the budget. In the primary deficit, in fact, your error is up to 87%, as 7.1% of GDP will reach as against 3.8% of your budget. In short, then, it is clear that you present to the Greek people false estimates, too optimistic that they end up being, not only inspiring, but also absurd and unreliable. Of course, if we consider other issues that have arisen during your two years of governance, you are a party, like the PASOK, familiar with the cooking of numbers. You have special expertise. I would remind you of EUROSTAT's report in 2010, which states on page twenty-six that there has been deliberate submission of fraudulent, erroneous data in a number of cases for the years 2005-2009. So, my old-fashioned sieve cooking numbers. Although there are also a lot of liquidity in the House, which has been pointed out by both the Mera25 and the Budget Office, you are insisting on different scenarios that ignore these uncertainties. I am referring, of course, to the inability to restore the economic activity of businesses, the recovery of businesses, their inability to respond to both households and businesses, but also to any possible additional support from the public purse. So these risks remain active for both the year 2022 and for the years 2023 to 2025, where your out-of-real forecasts are based on prerequisites that are not even guaranteed. And as if all these palaces were not enough in the sand, there is also a worse aspect, which has to do with something that is generally spread by various colleagues, that the New Democracy has not - it says - a clear programme and a framework and a target for restarting the economy. I strongly question this claim, which has and is based on two very hard fronts, to restart the economy, as it is seen by finally executives. The first front is the workers' insurance policy with Mr Hatzidakis' counter-roller, who basically legitimised the mobilisation of the wages and working conditions already applied. There is also the insurance issue, which will deliver the reserves of the insurance funds and the contributions of the insured on Golden Boys who will gamble them on international financial markets, in fact exempting them from any criminal and civil liability for damage they cause at all this risk by establishing the impunity in Article 19 of the bill. The second tough front, of course, is the sharing of resources from the Recovery Fund. On the one hand, this money is macroeconomicly insignificant, as Mr Varoufakis said, on the other hand, and on the other hand, as he also told you, we will have the great deal of food for the few and the elite government, the great pie for the few and the great hunger and the many, since there will not be any of this money in the pockets of the small and the low layers. I shall therefore conclude, Madam President - and I thank you for the tolerance - by saying that the problems caused by the government to the Greek people are many, that it has unfortunately caused profound injuries and injuries to the body of the institutions of society and the economy. Evaporate any attempt to reverse the climate. Loaning a shape of speech from the terminology of automotive workshops, you will deliver a country that will be sarcastic and unrepairable. So the more you stay in power, the worse for Greek women and Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, my colleague. Mrs. Kafantaris has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We are talking today, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the medium-term financial strategy framework 2022-2025. We are therefore talking about what really should include the strategy for the next four years. I would be very expectationsful to describe what has been tabled and we are discussing, a plan - if you like - on paper. Why am I saying that? There are the following assumptions: Government forecasts, especially in the good development scenario, are based on the fact that there will be a full utilization of the Recovery Fund's resources, a resurgence of private consumption, an explosive investment growth, especially in 2022, export aid. I am returning to the question of increasing consumption. This, of course, will mean that the Greek economy will actually take off, and now, unfortunately, our country in 2020 has recorded the third worst position in Europe. On the basis of this medium term, however, from a primary deficit of 7.1%, we will reach a primary surplus of 3.7% in 2025. It is also foreseen that what we are discussing is a return to normality since 2023. Of course, how will this return to normality? Will it be done by abolishing any support measures that exist at the moment and because of the pandemic? Will it be through increasing the taxation of natural persons or through the logic of the sale of all public infrastructure, which is also at the heart of New Democracy's logic and politics? Critical public structures. Of course, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, yesterday at the General Assembly of BSE, said that the growth that will come in the coming years will be strong. Mr. Mitsotakis shows up. How are they going to be? You, Minister, Mr Stakoura, spoke at the Ministerial Council, presenting the medium-term to six risks: uncertainty in the health field, uncertainty in tourist receipts, high volatility in external macroeconomic developments, external risks, symmetrical European threats, asymmetry in recovering economic losses between sectors and businesses, a correlation in gradual withdrawal of measures with sustainable businesses. You said it. Of course, Mr. Mitsotakis is sure of development. So the medium term does not respond to the needs of Greek society today. What does our society want? First of all, he wants health, public health strong. It wants work, education, drastic reduction in unemployment and, of course, social protection. The New Democracy Government, however, is firmly oriented towards neoliberal policies, to new - Thatzerist ideas, I would say, and there is no consultation with the institutions and society. Far from society and its needs are the ones proposed. But, ladies and gentlemen, let's take a look at what's going on in Greek society today. The focus was opened with many problems and many shops which, in fact, did not open. No re-start advance was granted, which you promised. I think it was a 7%. Many businesses, in general, have not been opened at all after the last lockdown. GSEW was warning about this. Of course, we have the social apartheid now to be introduced into vaccinated and not vaccinated. Particularly in the area of focus, their own bodies have come out and formulated specific proposals and objections. Of course, maybe we'll wait to create a focus police. After all, you guys are the ones who create any police, like you did at the universities, etc. However, the terms and conditions of the catering shops are not yet cleared. Let's go to entrepreneurship now. According to the President of the European Union, 15 or twenty-five thousand businesses from the eight hundred thousand in our country have the possibility of recourse to bank lending. This is very important for relaunching the economy, as we say. Unemployment is around 17% when the average in the European Union is 7%. But you are carving out young people with 150 euros to be vaccinated, which, in addition to the logic you enter, is also a public risk, which the scientists, experts, have pointed out, that with first vaccination, the body, the individual is not safe against the coronary and pandemic. But now I come to a very serious matter, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, to increase prices. Prices are rising rapidly. Let's go to a supermarket where the Greek family goes. Let us look at PPC's accounts, which in addition to the increase you made in September 2019 of the order of 19% to 20% in prices - and the Greek household lived - new appreciations are coming through the rise of the wholesale price of electricity that will be passed on to the consumer. Instead of taking measures, we continue the same logic of our country's dependence on gas, import of electricity, and even nuclear, cuts in the people's neighborhoods. I have lived in my constituency, in western Athens, escorting MAT to shut down electricity. This is your development, which is supplemented by the last minute's covered amendment to the House the day before yesterday to privatise the External Aquarium Network, the EEAS, after three years by PPP. That is to say, despite the decision of the S.H.E., in the future - in three years' time, you say - that the privatisation of the E.R.P.P. was privatized. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. So there is no point in supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, and the Minister for Development stated clearly, 'The premiums from autumn will be no more if we have a fourth wave'. The Recovery Fund, however, is something very serious. Its resources must be used for society, work and the reduction of inequalities. "Green" transition 37% of the Recovery Fund, while other countries have a higher percentage, is something that is very important, but it falls short when Mr Mitsotakis appears as the "green" Prime Minister who goes first and the violent degreeisation in western Macedonia and in the central Peloponnese without a plan and, of course, replaces with natural gas imported and serving chosen business friends. It does not refer to what has been submitted, the new development model that is needed today, which also the UN at global level, and Secretary-General Gutiéres says 'green recovery from the crisis in the new era - measures in particular for climate change'. I close with this: SYRIZA has proposals. He's testifying them. New social contract at work, abolishing the laws recently passed by the majority and restoring the lower wage to 800 euros and pilot implementation of 35-hours, as is done in other countries...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u136	Your Honor, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u137	I'm closing, Madam President. Thank you very much. ...public health system and support, not what you start at the "Attiki" Hospital today in western Athens, which is also the mobilization of the world....
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u138	Your Honor, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u139	...where you go for privatisation via PPP, as the Prime Minister has several times announced.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u141	We are talking about the removal of inequalities. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be tolerance, but not so much. Now, Mr. Grigoriadis has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u143	Madam President, for reasons of moral order, I should like to reply very kindly to the Minister, who is, in fact, right to do so. Mr. Stavura, you're right. It is true that in response to Mr. Skylakakis, who has again slandered Mr. Varoufakis, I say "... Mr. Stagioras...". But then the phrase says, "...your seat at the Bank of Greece". In my opinion, it's a piece of work, isn't it? However, you banker of the Bank of Greece have been nothing so far. I don't wish you that. Therefore, the well-being observer understands that it is wrong from what we say at the edge of the speech. It's only the old man. Fifty-six to fifty-seven anymore. Of course, he really made your name similar to Mr Stournara, which is a bad thing. I get it. But I did not intend to reduce you in this way. It's just to restore the truth to say that you're really right. Sorry about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Tsakalotos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Madam President. I hope that colleagues and colleagues will not blame me after my speech that I suddenly have a crisis of majesty and arrogance. But I have the feeling that the government has set itself to convince me even that it has a natural momentum towards political fraud. You're getting over me! Let me start with the health you don't have a responsibility. We supported you responsibly in the first phase. We support you for the vaccinations. We have made that clear with Mr Georgiadis, and the President has made it clear. We have praised you for how you've organised the vaccinations. It's a very good system. And now you come with the 150 euros that is much more important. I'm surprised. And the others backed it up. I would therefore like to explain the deep gap between us on this EUR 150. Many years ago a great British economist, Richard Titmus, carried out an analysis, a study of blood donation. Separate the two systems - free of charge or by payment - and discovered that where they are free they give more blood and better quality blood. However, there was another part of Japan’s study that before World War II had the system for free and after World War II, the American occupation, they took the American system on payment and dropped the quality and amount of blood they gave. You, Mr Stagira, will understand that and this is very strange for an economist: for something you gave for free, I now pay you and give you less. It's not what we learn in the first year of students. Why - says Richard Titmus - when the Japanese paid after World War II gave less blood and less quality? The lowest amount is obvious because someone who had hepatitis would give it now to get the money. But the quantity why? Because blood donation is a donation, it's a social contribution to people. So, when you put money on it, you change it from a donation, from a social system that we all support, in a market exchange, and that is very important for the 150 euros, for children who are questioning 'why do you give me EUR 150 for something that is good for me anyway?', but you cannot allow them to express their social solidarity, to be able - what economists say - to exist in addition to market relations and non-market relations, to have the social capital that the world cooperates with, the public sector, where in the public sphere we operate differently than in a market. And that is very important because all your policy is to become market relations and that has negative consequences even for capitalism, even for your model. Because even your model is based on hidden sources of solidarity and cooperation, which you in the way you operate, you marginalize exactly these relationships. A week ago I tore up my knee and went to a health center because I needed three stitches. I won't say where it is because I don't trust you that you won't be vengeful. And there was a very good, excellent nurse, a very good doctor, and for half an hour, while the stitches did me - and they did with a big needle because they didn't have the little needle, they had finished - they told me the complaints, the complaints they have, that they don't have the X-ray machine, that the doctors are non-permanent and they're afraid that there aren't enough doctors, that you've left them in their luck. And Mr. Skoplakis tells us that he has no other measures - as he does not - I will come back to this again - but in 2023, if everything goes well, we will have tax exemptions. Are we entitled to ask, after all that Greek society has taken, whether you should have any objective of reaching the average of expenditure, public health expenditure as a percentage of GDP? Is it absurd to ask for that? And all we hear is that we have a goal of reducing taxes in 2023. Where do you want to take it? When are you going to take it? Where will new costs be? Mr Skeylakakis tells us - and that is why I said what I said in my introduction - that he did not hear any argument from the opposition - I think he was referring to all of us, not just us, Mr Katharin and Mr Karathanasopoulos - no argument and therefore he is not answering. I have to say about Mr. Dog. Your Deputy Minister, whether he is not very careful in the committees or in the plenary, or he does not understand and because I have listened to many arguments from all of us. I heard, for example, the argument about late payment which the medium-term says was 8.7 billion, and you reached about 900 million. You were not kind enough to say that the big part was done on our own duty, despite everything you said we were drying up the economy, that we were not interested in the real economy. Nor do you want to use the last figures in April that say that the time has increased. Can I answer that you're drying up the economy, that you're not interested? I said the other argument about expenditure, where, for the expenditure, Mr Skulakakis told us, there will be 4 billion - before and after the elections - and now the medium-term says we will only have reforms. And what was his answer? That now with the pandemic we cannot make an overview of expenditure. Really? Is the cost overview for emergency health expenditure? Is that how you understand the cost overview? Or it is something that we have adopted to ensure that there is a permanent waste mechanism, not, obviously, for education, for health and for investment. We have put forward some arguments, we wanted to start a debate and learn your opinion of the change of the Stability Pact. We asked. We hear that the Commission is aiming to change the parameters, that is, instead of having to reach 60% of the debt as a percentage of GDP, to reach 90%. That's what we hear. What's your point of view? Is it a good system that we just want to change the parameters, namely, from 60% to 90%? Or is it something that Greece and the South require a radical reform of the Stability Pact and the Six Pack and the Two Pack? Shouldn't you tell us that? Is it a secret secret what you think of a top issue of European economic and financial architecture? Do you have an opinion, don't you have an opinion? Is this just a matter of parameters? Is this a more radical matter? Will you try? Aren't you sure you have the allegations? But say something! And we're going to the big deficit of this medium-term. What is envisaged for society? What about inequality, gini? The income ratio for the twenty richest in relation to twenty poorest? Any markers? What is envisaged by the medium-term, by what you are already doing for work, by all the measures you have taken? Will the inequalities in Greece be reduced? Won't the inequalities in Greece be reduced? Are you happy with the evolution of inequality? I have made a proposal to show the Greek people that there is an elementary distribution, that is to say, to share the burden of the COVID adjustment with an extraordinary wealth tax, and said Mr Skylakakis that we do not introduce new taxes. Really? Have you heard the debate, the university debate, the discussion of finance ministers that, because of COVID, we need to consider seriously who will pay the extraordinary expenses and the debt increase? And, well, the emergency as you understand doesn't solve it. But it's a signal, a signal to society that we're really on the same boat. We're not some people here or anyone else. Is there any indication in this medium-term that you don't believe in the trickle down, that you don't believe what's being increasingly rejected by politicians and scientists that we're going to give tax exemptions to the rich and become rich, and at some point the poorest will get? Is this thing coming from somewhere? You gave an explanation why they don't have any more measures. I do not know if you will have the same approach, that things are difficult, that we do not know what will happen in the Stability Pact, who will be the new rules, so we will see in 2023. "VAMA" and "KATHMERINI" why did they write what they wrote last Sunday? They said that, contrary to what the medium-term writes for 3% reduction in social contributions, a reduction in the solidarity levy - which says they are not there, that they are over - they say that not only will there be, they are permanent measures, but they will be extended. Can I wait for a letter signed by you and Mr. Skolaakakis to the director of "BAMAS" and the director of "Kathimerini", which explains "we don't know what leak you took, where you took it from, but it didn't come from us"? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance for a little longer, Madam President. "Because we honour our signature and our signature is in the medium term, which clearly says that ending this and we will see in 2023. Why are you presenting us as a government, saying that these measures will continue and increase in this regard?' So, we have in the medium term for the outsiders, to convince them that we will reach 2% of the primary surplus and then increase, but within we say the political message to the elections - I do not know if Mr Katrinis is right - 'there are other tax exemptions coming and you have seen nothing until now'? Isn't that a little fraud? Isn't that a communication game? To wait for your letter to the director of "BAMAS" and "KATHMERINA" which explains how they are wrong and that you cannot imagine how they were misinformed by whom, but certainly not by you. Ladies and gentlemen, the lack of a sense of social space, of social capital, is a huge problem for all neoliberal governments and is a place because they do not have the results they expect. The lack of objectives for inequality, however, is the serious political issue that must be worked out by both the Change Movement and the Mer25 and the JRC. A front must be found with three, four points, which will aim to take seriously the inequalities of all species in this society and in this economy and in wealth and income and access to social goods and regional inequalities. Anything else means fatalism to a government that thinks that with communication tricks he can rule forever. It is up to us to prove to them that this is not the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u146	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u147	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will not answer Mr Tsakalotos as a whole in my speech in a moment. Just for one point: because you spoke of fraud, that other things we say in Greece and we say outside Greece, I would like to tell you that I made a recommendation to the Ministerial Council. The suggestion I made to the Ministerial Council is publicly available, and a press release also came out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u148	So you'll write a letter to "BAMA" and "KATHMERINI"...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u149	May I? But there's the website of the Ministry of Finance. I am speaking publicly at the Step of the House, and I will also present it to the House in my speech. In the Ministerial Council there is also the placement which is also on the website of the Ministry of Finance, thus expressing the position of the Ministry of Finance and the Greek Government with boldness, the same line within Greece and outside Greece. I have a series of permanent tax reductions, and I also have a second page called 'non-permanent tax reductions', with a view, as you have said, to permanentise. And I have four reports, not two. I would add the reduction in VAT on transport, coffee and non-alcoholic beverages, cinema and theatres and on the tourist package by the end of the year. We have complete clarity, absolute transparency and complete openness. So don't talk about fraud! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, too, Minister. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u151	Madam President, can the Syrians talk a little?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u152	What can I tell you, my colleague? The previous colleague has left me the situation, Mr. Vitsats left me this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u153	Mrs Fotou, have you now been disturbed that Mr Chakalotos spoke, that the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy should not speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u154	No, Mr. Brutsi, I'm here now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u155	Okay, but now you're making the observation. Ladies and gentlemen, as a very important debate is taking place - to which I shall refer in detail - a number of colleagues from the SYRIZA have questioned some elements with the main focus of development, indicators and development, as determined by the draft law submitted by the Ministry of Finance. The Minister for Finance just now mentioned several banks that give much more optimistic scenarios - I will not repeat them, he also submitted them to the House - and just before - just before! - UniCredit announced growth for 2021 5.5%, much higher than the percentage we describe in the Medium-term Financial Strategy Programme. I am admiring the former Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, in Stepma, with appreciation and respect for his face, as he had been Minister for a long time. Mr Tsakaloto, I would expect you to be more substantial, more specific and more proactive, in the sense that in such an important bill that today is being discussed in Parliament - I think it is more important than the budget, because the budget refers to the future of one year, and today we are making and illustrating the plan for the next five years with the current year - you were due to have more concrete proposals as a matter of urgency. I heard the word 'fraud' three times. I would recommend - not to extend it - that when you say the word 'fraud' by SYRIZA, be more careful because memories are recovered very easily. It's good to leave them in the past, I mean the fraud of the promises given. You referred to inequality, without listening to your proposal. I would remind you that the government over Antonis Samaras was the one that brought the Minimum Guaranteed Income in Greece. I see Mrs Fotou protest. You continued it, Mrs Fotius, and at first you questioned it and called it a trap of poverty. These are politicians. We created 'A21', that is the allowance for children, this government over Antonis Samaras at that time. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis introduced the allowance for the children who are born. These are anti-inequity policies. And what I have heard, Mr Tsakaloto, is the words 'for wealth'. Can you specialize? What do you mean, 'for wealth'? You know, in the political process - and Mr Chakalotos knows very well - it is very easy to throw words into the air that are very attractive. It's a left-wing idiom to win the impressions with such phrases. "Fort for wealth," one hears it and says "I say, there is a wealth that is circulating among us, let us tax him to find revenue for the public." What's that wealth? Do that! Because here in Greece all we have done over the years is that we have stripped every entrepreneur, every pensioner, every worker in and out of the increased contributions - the highest at European level, 46.6% of insurance contributions - and at tax level than the highest. That's the reality. So, when and whenever you come to this Step and want to make a real confrontation, I very much ask you to be more specific and more targeted and more specialized. What is the framework for a budgetary strategy, ladies and gentlemen? It's a very important bill. Is it a hammer, as my colleague from Mera25 said? Answer: No. Cazamia, ladies and gentlemen of Mera25 is to come from this Step as party leader and predict that the 2020 recession will be 15% and ultimately be 8.2%, this is Kazakhstan. We have proved over time as a government - over time! - with emphasis now on the period of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the excellent financial staff we have that what we say is counted up to the last euro. I have personal experience as a former Minister, I see Thanasis Petralia, the Secretary-General, nights, days we talked about the difficult period of 2021 to take measures, that is, measures to support business and workers, counting the 1 cent, making possible calculations, to be precise. This, then, framework of a fiscal strategy for 2022-2025 is a text based on two very important points. Firstly, in precise economic measurements resulting from the economic data of the Ministry of Finance, non-disputable, assumptions which - beware of, have been said, but I will say more emphatically - are very conservative and is also demonstrated by the level of growth that provides for 3.6% in 2021, when all other banks and other international organisations give it more than 4% and 4.5%. The second is that it is the result of policies that we have decided to apply from the first time we have become a government, policies which are concrete and measurable, not questionable. They are already bills of state that will continue. And I'm becoming more specific. This framework for a fiscal strategy until 2025 is based on tax reductions, what we have voted on here. I'm not analyzing them, they're already known. It concerns both entrepreneurs and pensioners and employees. Tax reductions. Secondly, it is based on reductions in insurance contributions. Ten units decreased cumulatively the insurance contributions. The most painful of all the tax procedure is the so-called 'non-wage cost', which undermines both legal work and employee income and healthy and consistent businesses. From 46.6% we went to 40.6% in 2014 and now with four points we reach 36.6%. It is the digital state, which developed in 2021 in a spectacular way. It is the creation of a climate for attracting investment. Does anyone doubt that the whole world sees and discusses Greece, the only policy that has developed over the past two years in our country and the image it has made out? It's the reforms we've already done in the education that you're accusing yourself of. It's giving power. These are the reforms relating to insurance law 4670, which now brings in and implements a stable insurance system in the country, which is viable by the 1970s. It is teleworking, it is the digital pension "ITLAS". These are reforms. It's the digital card...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u156	It's repealed!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u157	..."ERGANI", which comes to protect the worker. It is the strong banking system, which, after being rounded up several times through policies that have been analysed over time here, is coming today and shows that we have two very positive elements, despite its weaknesses. No one claimed to be on the perfect level. Firstly, red loans reach a one-digit figure in 2022 and, secondly, we have a large increase in deposits. Moreover, the latter is what was produced by all this political process, reforms, laws and is the country's credibility, which is measurable, concrete and reflected by the amount of borrowing. With SYRIZA, which had indeed reduced the loan rate, it was more than 3% when we received it, and today it is less than 1%. This is the comparative element that makes Greece credible and attracts investment and is a serious country, which the next day can be a place for money to come and invest in our country by creating jobs. The question of the bill is more essentially based on some assumptions, which are, firstly, the vaccination, secondly, the use of the recovery package and, thirdly, international tourism. I would like to say this: this is a great debate, and I think this is the first time that we can discuss the prospects of an economy, based on an assumption, such as vaccination, and everyone has the right to keep his personal position and opinion. We all know that the budgetary tolerances, not of the Greek economy, are not unlimited, but of no economy. And we know that this government gave 41 billion euros, not from the government's pocket, but from the government budget in a methodology, in a way and with a programme. Of course, the strengths of no economy are unlimited. And we are at the critical moment that the 45% prediction of the programme, the 2021 strategy framework compared to 2019, and 80% that we have done for 2022 are objectives that need to be taken. Moreover, there is something even more important. From now on, it is an individual responsibility for everyone to realize that the issue of vaccination is something that not only concerns health but also concerns their family, but also their own country. Because, if we do not go well on this issue, and the non-sex, we have a fourth wave and the budget cannot take it, then the consequences will be dramatic for everyone independently. So that is a point, ladies and gentlemen, which unites us. Let us make political confrontation with anything else, but here we must be absolute and specific. Yes, everyone needs to be indiscriminately vaccinated, and I mean within the health facilities that everyone has. But here vaccination must also be universal throughout the country. The question is now also a sanitary one, but also an economic one. The elements of the financial framework, which are actually, not only realistic, but I would say very optimisticly, in the hope and perspective that they give for a strong economy, which, if we take away the space that we have spent the pandemic cave, gives us hope and optimism that Greece is going to another level and that we are changing our page. They say that, as illustrated by concrete and very important indicators, which I am obliged to mention, because the debate is also technical. Growth 3.6% in 2021, 6.2% in 2022, 4.1% in 2023, 4.4% in 2024 and 3.3% in 2025, when growth in 2019 was 1.9% and 2020, what I said before, recession -8.2. Unemployment, the first priority objective: Since 19.8% that was in 2018, we are at 16.3% for 2021, which shows that we have endured and that the measures we took were in the right direction. We had set the goal with the Ministry of Finance to maintain jobs and the dismissal ban clause. That's social sensitivity! And we did it. We are at 16.3%, and 2025 is expected to be at 11.1%. Are we happy? Oh, no! We must reach the European Union's average, which is 7%. That's where the target is. But we are taking a step forward and we have also passed the motto of pandemic. As far as the debt is concerned, since 2004% in 2021, it has fallen to 156,9% in 2025. The primary surplus of -7.1% in 2021 will be at +3.7% in 2025. Exports in 2021 were at 10.4%, 13.8% will go in 2022, 7.5% in 2023, 6.2% in 2024 and 5.2% in 2025. Private consumption: From -5.2% in 2020 to 2.6% in 2021, 2.9% in 2022 and reaches 2.2% in 2025. Red loans: one-digit percentage in 2022. Investments: 7% in 2021, 30.3% in 2022, 14.3% in 2023, 10.8% in 2024 and 11.1% in 2025. Because I caught Mr Tsakalotou's suggestion on the issue of tax and insurance measures, which is an appeal both to Parliament and to the Government, the issue that is not described after 2023 is the issue of the contribution of solidarity and insurance contributions. It is our belief that this will not change. They'll keep it down. We cannot increase either insurance contributions or solidarity contributions. It's a very difficult thing. Look out! The government's planning and the Treasury's handling. As was done for 2021, for inviting us and saying "What will happen in 2022", you saw that in 2022. The solidarity levy and the reduction in insurance contributions were kept. The government brought it. I believe and wish, it cannot be different, that the reduction in taxes and social security contributions should be retained over the next few years. Ladies and gentlemen, in the hope that this financial framework for our country will be both practicable and effective, I close my position, because I think that, in addition to personal or political and party differences, it is a wish for everyone, because in the end Greece and its good will unite us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u158	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u159	Madam President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u160	Why do you want to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u161	I would like the floor for a minute, just like the last time I spoke, just to tell Mr Brutsi about the 'Cazamia' in the predictions of my Chief, who is not here at the moment. Mr Brutsi, you clearly said, if I understood correctly, that the forecasts of our Chief, Mr Varoufakis, for 10-15% recession in the past year have fallen into the gap, as the recession is 8.2%. I remind you - and you know it better than me - that, in order to get the recession of 8.2%, ELSTAT was forced to reduce its previous year's GDP by EUR 4.5 billion. But it was not just that, because there we could assume that ELSTAT found, as usual, a mistake in one year and reduced it. I must also remind you - and you know it better than me - that ELSTAT was forced to reduce, in order to get this supposed downturn of 8.2%, the primary surplus of both 2018 and 2017 and 2016 and 2015 and 2014 and both 2013 and 2012 and 2011 and 2010! People are laughing, Mr. Brutsi! Furthermore, Mr Staikoura and Mr Brutsis, since you are also the Minister responsible, I must remind you that, in order to get this magical picture of 8.2%, negative inflation, so-called deflation, had to be removed. In fact, deflation has occurred and is found. However, it was only about the very high incomes, as it could be that Lamborghini and Ferrari were reduced by 10,000, 20,000 or 50,000 euros, but those who live in "Banana" called "Greece" know in supermarkets prices for the poor world increased. So there was no deflation for our pockets. For Mr. Latsis, Mr. Niarchor or Mr. Vardinoyannis, of course, there was. Therefore, Mr Brutsi, the whole world knows that it is more than 12% of our concern today and that of GDP and that of changing in decades, this recession does not change. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, too. Now the Minister for Finance, Mr Stavros, has the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u163	Thank you very much, Madam President. We are talking today about the medium-term framework of a fiscal strategy for the period 2022-2025, which is actually being drawn up in an environment of high uncertainty, because of the pandemic of the coronary. In this context, the financial staff with a sense of debt vis-à-vis their homeland, law vis-à-vis society and responsibility towards citizens are planning and implementing best policies, but within the scope of possible solutions. It achieves, by emitting security and stability, overcoming the crisis, with the economy in operation and society upright, having laid the foundations for recovery and then growth of the economy. Just for these two words, I will speak to you today, i.e. recovery and development, for the indications of rapid and strong economic recovery and high and sustainable economic growth. I'm starting at the first section. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek economy is recovering rapidly and vigorously. Indicator precursors and political options confirm this. In particular, firstly, the recession in the economy is weaker than the original forecasts. In fact, in the first quarter of the year, the Greek economy developed 4.4%, which is the third best European performance in terms of quarterly GDP change. Secondly, the country retains unemployment within the health crisis, demonstrating one of the best European performances. The national employment support measures, along with the 'SURE' programme, were an obstacle to the growth of unemployment. Indeed, according to EUROSTAT today, it was announced a moment ago that, for May, unemployment - although unfortunately high - fell from 16.9% in May 2020 to 15.4% this year. It is a significant improvement in recent years. Thirdly, industrial production is moving steadily upwards. The industry in the country is able to withstand for the sixth consecutive month, with a significant increase of about 10% at the level of the first quarter of 2021. Fourthly, the expectations of processing are being strengthened. The responsible procurement index has exceeded the last three months - the data for the fourth month already came out - the reference level of the fifty units. And you know very well, dear colleague, Mr Chakaloto, what that means. Fifthly, the economic climate index - again updated the figures - climbed around pre-krower levels. Sixthly, private statements, despite the fact that the economy has been opened and consumption has increased, continue to increase, especially for households for the fifteenth consecutive month. Within the health crisis, deposits of around EUR 23 billion have been strengthened, of which - to keep some from rushing - 57% are household deposits. Seventhly, non-performing loans are reduced. Over the past 12 months, red loans have decreased by 15 billion euros or 24%. Eighth, the cost of borrowing on the money markets - not capital - is consistently negative, as is reflected in the interest rates of the Greek State Ministries. Ninth, the cost of borrowing on capital markets is historically low, as is reflected in the interest rates of the Greek State Bonds. Tenth - if you want, for me more important than both previous references to money and capital markets are the margin for interest - the spreads of the Greek bond are constantly shrinking and not just in Germany, but in all the countries of the South. In fact, with Italy we have a negative sign now, which means that European decisions have of course helped, of course, the monetary policy decisions of the European Central Bank, but the country with its credibility has achieved much better results from all the other southern countries. Eleventh, the Greek economy is being upgraded. Three rating houses upgraded the country's credit rating within the health crisis. Twelfth, major structural changes are being implemented. For example, in the field of economy alone, taxes and social security contributions are reduced to natural and legal persons. Tax incentives were introduced to attract investment, a coherent plan for the regulation of private debt was drafted, a new institutional framework for corporate governance of public limited companies was put in place for reducing the accumulated volume of non-performing loans. Deprivations are implemented, such as in marinas and in peripheral ports, and public property is exploited, as was the case with the investment in Greek, reorganised public companies that have cost a great deal of money to Greek taxpayers, such as Scaramaga Shipyards, LARCO, EAB, ELTA, while the resolution process in ELVO has been completed. The framework for determining objective property values is reformed, the institutional framework for assistance for natural disasters is modernised. The result is the competitiveness of the economy in international rankings has been constantly improving over the last two years. Thirteenth. The government supports brave and substantially affected citizens. It has quickly, efficiently and decisively spread a wide-ranging protection net over households and businesses, with a total of EUR 41 billion in liquidity support in the period 2020-2022 because you said some measures in the next few months - limiting the impact of the economic crisis to the extent possible. Fourteenth. At the same time, the general clause for escaping from the financial framework provided for in the Stability and Growth Pact applies for this year has been extended for 2022, allowing for a smooth transition to a budgetary equilibrium. I respond to two positions from the side of the Change Movement. Yes, indeed the financial adjustment will be gradual. I answer Mr. Loverdo. Mr Katrin, I will insist - because you know that I am very careful to monitor you - that the primary surpluses by 2025 are not targets. Very, very, very big, the difference from what you see. They are our estimates and our forecasts of what will be achieved by following this economic policy. The objectives will be set at European level after 2022, and that is obviously where we will negotiate to be the lowest possible. At the time when we are going to have this result that you see today to the objectives, which are much lower, it will mainly be used to reduce taxes and social security contributions. So we're not talking about targets, I'm going to insist on that. The debate is too early for objectives at European level, but it does not mean that it will not open from September. That is the reality and it will not be easy to discuss. There are few voices that need to be adjusted quickly, but I think that the voices of reason will prevail. When the objectives are decided at European level, then the budgetary area to be created on the basis of the difference between the medium-term estimates and the objectives to be set will go - all this difference - for further reductions in taxes and insurance contributions. Fifteenth and last. Aid is envisaged in relation to 2020 for tourist receipts and is expected to be paid up and disbursed by the Recovery Fund in the second half of the year. All of these fifteen points I have told you are fifteen indicators and fifteen policies which are reflected in specific indicators and charts presented to the Ministerial Council and I am tabling them in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] All that I told you so far is about until today. I'm trying to prove to you if there's realism in government appreciation for strong and rapid recovery. So everything is converging in the prediction that the economy will recover rapidly and vigorously this year. Achievement of the target for growth of 3.6% this year is absolutely feasible and realistic. I filed a table in the Minutes. No one has commented on the table since - three Parliamentary Representatives of Representation have been uploaded -. We say 3.6% and all houses come and say that 'you will go better than 3.6%'. And the opposition says that 'you are optimistic'. So, if we are optimistic, all banks, the Bank of Greece, the partners, the institutions, the OECD what is it? I therefore believe that there is an absolute pragmatism in what we have shown. Nevertheless, as the Ministry of Finance, we do not review our forecasts for 2021, despite the positive indications, until we have a better picture of the Greek Statistical Authority for the progress of the economy in the first half of the year, in fact taking into account the uncertainty in the health field and the high volatility in external macroeconomic developments. Did Mrs Kafantaris mention this, saying that I told the Ministerial Council and how it is possible to be so optimistic about 3.6%? It is the discrepancy between 3.6% and the estimates of the other institutions about how the Greek economy will go. We are still measuring these risks. In addition, there is, as I told you, great uncertainty. The coronary battle isn't over. Vaccination is the shield for the protection of public health, and at the same time it is the return ticket to normality. In fact, specific measures to encourage vaccination are also added. Economic constraints are disastrous both for the real economy and for the public finances, deficit - debt, despite the safe levels of cash we have built. The greater part of the population is vaccinated, the less space we allow new mutations to spread, insult the invasive ones and lead us to any restrictions that today exist at a great cost for the economy. In contrast to the responsibility and pragmatism of the government, which I believe has proved to you with certain elements, Accuracy Opposition has given rise a few months ago to the devastation of the country, today zeros the successes of society. Society is the successes. I would remind you that the SYRIZA financial sector in question during the budget debate has said that the recession will continue in the first half of 2021 and the recovery will not exceed 1%. On 9 June - I repeat - in a radio interview she said: 'The fact that there will be a positive growth rate in 2021 is a certain one. Let us not question it, and do not consider it an achievement. In other words, in 2021 a number of positive growth rates will be noted close to 3% if necessary." 1% has become 3%, changes are easy. And he went on to say: "This will happen close to 3%. When you have such a deep recession, the next year is obvious that it will have a growth trend. It is almost mathematical.’; Obviously, Mrs Ahtsoglu's mathematics changed in 2021 in relation to 2020. That is good, and it is good because successes are collective, credited to everyone and everyone. In the crisis we have proved as a country that we can do it. Our country did comparatively well at all levels, in all fields. Society has demonstrated strength, has demonstrated strength. Citizens have shown hidden virtues, underestimated capabilities. The government has shown responsibility and all this is valued and recognised worldwide. We've earned credibility, trust, prestige. We have achieved the objectives we have set ourselves with wisdom, responsibility and morality. All of this is a valuable reserve for the future of our country and we must rely on it with confidence. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, all the elements converging that the recovery in 2021 will be strong and that in 2022 we will cover all the losses of 2020. But is this only the goal of the government? The answer is clear: No. We have set ambitious but once again realistic targets for the coming years. The first objective is to improve the quantity of wealth by achieving medium- and long-term rates of economic growth. The second objective is to improve, not only the quantity but also the quality of wealth, with a significant increase in investment and exports. The third objective is to get the country out of the enhanced surveillance regime in 2022. Fourth objective is to achieve a one-digit percentage of non-performing loans in the bank portfolios in 2022. Fifth objective of the budget improvement in 2022, as we see in the medium term, and the achievement of realistic primary surpluses as targets since 2023. The third objective is to upgrade the Greek economy to an investment stage by the first half of 2023, which is largely dependent on the achievement of the previous objectives. Achieving these six objectives is absolutely possible, because they require the design of an integrated, coherent economic strategy, which the government already implements methodically and coordinately. Strategic based on seven pillars. The first pillar: the continuation of aid to affected families and businesses and the gradual transition to measures to relaunch the economy. Measures such as the GFCF programme to grant loans, households and businesses. It has not yet been disbursed about half a billion euros. The subsidy of some of the fixed costs of enterprises. Another half billion euro has not yet been disbursed. The non-repayable grant to small enterprises, through local government agencies, over 800,000 euros. The implementation of targeted economic sector support programmes through the ESRB. The new guarantee programme through banks for micro-enterprises. The extension of special-purpose allowances for workers, as well as the 'Cooperation' programme. The cover of all insurance contributions for the creation of new jobs, measures totalling EUR 4.5 billion in the second half of the year. Here, the first pillar to have not only recovery, but also sustainable development. Secondly, the implementation of a prudent fiscal policy in the direction of reducing taxes and social security contributions, particularly for the middle-class. We have already made considerable permanent reductions in taxes in the medium term and over the next few years, in less than two years, despite the crisis. We must always repeat them. Reduction of HPAI by 22%, reduction of the tax rate on natural persons from 22% to 9%, increase of tax on each child, reduction of the tax rate on profits of companies from 28% to 22%, reduction of the tax rate on dividends from 10% to 5%, reduction of the tax on natural persons carrying on business from 100% to 55%, reduction of the tax on legal persons from 100% to 80%, reduction of insurance contributions, low tax rate for all agricultural schemes of 10%, and very recently permanentisation of the reduced tax on five Greek islands, as long as there are structures of asylum seekers. I repeat, all these tax reductions are permanent. They were made by this government and were done in less than two years. They are not abolished in the medium term, as the SYRIZA financial sector has wrongly argued, nor are they, of course, limited, as he has again wrongly argued. On the contrary, they are supplemented by additional tax reductions, such as the suspension of a special solidarity contribution and the additional reduction in insurance contributions for 2021 and 2022, which, depending on the financial area, will also be permanentised. While, finally, we have also granted tax incentives to attract new investments, such as the 50% reduction in the tax rate for newly created enterprises, the introduction of a tax reduction on the costs of taking services for energy functional and aesthetic upgrades, the suspension of VAT on new buildings, the suspension of property tax on capital for three years, the new method of taxing foreigners' income for tax purposes in Greece, whether it concerns investors either pensioners or Greeks who left in the years of crisis or companies with special purpose for family property management. Therefore, the reduction of taxes, particularly in the middle-class, is a priority of the current government, in contrast to the previous SYRIZA government. Third pillar: Conservation of strong cash reserves through the implementation of a consistent, smart and perceptive publishing strategy. The financial staff make use of cash flows by rationalisation, supplementing - take care - of outflows and inputs, mainly from successful outlets on the markets at very low borrowing costs. To close this question, I shall refer to the inflows of funds into the country's cash reserves. What I'm telling you is the second section, which I'm tabling in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Influence of funds on the country's cash reserves over the last two years has been EUR 41 billion. The cost of the support measures two years is EUR 41 billion. What we have achieved as a government in the New Democracy we have given it to society. All support for society is solely due to the Government of New Democracy, so that the country's cash resources today amount to around EUR 34 billion, having even repaid 80% of the loans from the International Monetary Fund. It is thus clear that we are dealing with public finances with respect for the great, long-term sacrifices of citizens. As you can see, they are preconditions for growth - be careful, not recovery, development - which I can prove to you that we are already implementing them. Fourth pillar: Creating the right conditions for strong credit expansion through and through a strong and healthy banking system. Three are the main priorities here. The law on settlement of debts and the provision of a second chance is implemented. Many of you argued that the law would fail and that there would be no interest. Within a month, then, twenty - three thousand fourscore seventy - eight unique VDUs have applied for the off-court settlement mechanism online platform. Again, twenty-three thousand four hundred seventy-eight. No one believed that. Of the twenty-three thousand fourscore seventy-eight, fifteen thousand nine hundred ninety-four of our compatriots have a final request and with the waiver of confidentiality and expect details of the creditors. Second pole on this pillar. Additional resources shall be mobilised for bank lending from the loan file under Greece 2.0. How much? It is EUR 12.7 billion. Third, the balance sheets of the Greek banks are cleared and further reduced the reserve of the non-performing loans through the extension and extension of the ‘HRAKLIS’ programme. Soon we will legislate in the House. Fifth pillar: Continuing the Deprivation Programme, promoting the exploitation of public property, implementing structural changes and reforms that will strengthen what? Not only the competitiveness, but the structural competitiveness of the economy, prioritising the improvement of the quality and efficiency of education, training, lifelong learning, research, technological development, technology, innovation and entrepreneurship, through the operation of a state of productive, efficient, efficient, qualitative, digital and fairness, a state that will ensure and intervene to ensure the optimum functioning of the market mechanism, will intervene to ensure the maximum possible economic efficiency and socially fair distribution of wealth and income. Non-pillar: The best use of European financial instruments. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan is aimed primarily at covering the large gap in investment, productivity, national product, employment. The main priorities for the use of European funds through the "Greece 2.0" project focus on supporting innovative entrepreneurship, strengthening the cyclical economy, attracting private investment, strengthening active employment policies, implementing multimodal transport infrastructures, a fair transition to liberation, technological upgrading of public and private sectors, reducing social exclusion and strengthening social cohesion. My dear colleague, you are reasonably thinking about what we predict and where these social policies exist. If you see percentage, because we've been talking about percentages, if you see our overreacting colleagues, you'll understand. But you see I'm not making speeches. I respect all the speakers and take the floor once and I answer everyone. I promise I won't be reassigned unless I'm provoked.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u164	Then we'll mock you so you don't go out again!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u165	If I'm provoked on a personal level. For example, for example, all the parliamentary representatives have chosen to speak before me. Mr. Tsakalotos, on the part of "Greece 2.0"...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u166	If I may, Minister, just a minute, please. I'm not interrupting you. Because comments are made. You know very well what time each minister can speak. I think that especially you have been Minister and you know very well. We have eighteen, nine, five and three minutes. So he hasn't exceeded his time. One is that. And secondly, because there was a previous comment, I would like to say that there is a situation here which I found by Mr Vitsa with data on how speakers will speak. So do not comment on whether the parliamentary representatives enter in the intervening room or speak in the intervening room. Excuse me, Minister, you can continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u167	Thank you very much, Madam President. Three brief remarks to specific questions that you raised to me. Ceilings of State budget bodies. Health: 2019 was close to 4 billion. In 2020, 4.8 billion. In 2021, 4.3 billion. And go to 4.5, 4.5, 4.6, 4.5. Therefore, in any case, the maximum health expenditure ceilings are higher than the precursor season. Corresponding to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs from 20,274,000,000 in 2019, we go in 2025 to 21,434,000, plus 1,2 billion euros. You'll tell me, but I don't see any specific policies written. In the project "Greece 2.0", which we discussed and which is publicly available, you will see that there are budgets of around 5.2 billion euros, with investment funds mobilised marginally higher, 5.3, and we have four thematic sections. I don't have time, but I'd be happy to talk about this at some point, too. Increase jobs and promote participation in the labour market, strengthen the digital capacities of education, enhance accessibility, efficiency and quality of public health - I respond to the health aspect - and increase access to effective and inclusive social policies plus EUR 601 million. In the previous section on health 1,536,000 euros. You also said not to mention or why we did not make reference to the great improvement of the dues made by the previous government. You will allow me to tell you that I have a particular sensitivity on this matter, because I served in the Ministry of Finance from 2012 to 2015 as Deputy Minister of Finance to reduce, as far as possible, the dues. We have received the outstanding debts - and I will present them in the Minutes - at EUR 9.6 billion. We dropped them in December 2014 to EUR 3.8 billion. So don't mess with it all. In 9.6 it became 3.8 by the government at the time that it had a trunk of the New Democracy and other political parties participated. Subsequently therrears were up and running. It was the famous negotiation and creative ambiguity, among other things, Mr Varoufakis from 3.8 to 7.4. And you did hand over the debts due to us at EUR 2.2 billion, as they are today. We have reduced the dues from EUR 9.6 billion to EUR 3.8 billion and you from EUR 3.8 billion to 2.2 billion. That's what we're talking about. I'm filing it in the Minutes. It's the official information that's published every month. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is therefore about the Recovery Fund for a mesh of six investments and sixty-eight reforms, combining economic efficiency with social cohesion and justice. These funds, together with the funds of the multiannual financial framework 2021-227, do not forget them - must be used quickly and effectively. And that is what the government is doing with methodicity, timetables, monitoring procedures and implementing mechanisms. Finally, the seventh pillar: active participation of the country, as is the case in the last two years, in the initiatives for the new European economic architecture, including, among other things, the deepening of the European Union, the integration of banking union, the promotion of the association of capital markets, the establishment of a new international institutional framework for taxation of multinational enterprises - and we are participating in this today in the OECD - and changes in the Stability and Growth Pact, changes which must ensure the long-term sustainability of public finances, offer maximum flexibility to deal with crises and encourage investment. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's implementation of certain policies, based on these seven pillars, leads to optimism and appreciation for the future. It makes it possible to achieve the objective of transforming the economy, by increasing the quantity and productivity, by improving the quality of national wealth and by reconstructing the components of GDP, in order to increase the competitiveness and extroversion of the Greek economy. To confirm all this - let the Greek Government say - according to the latest forecasts of the European Commission that I tabled in the Minutes, Greece will show a 6% increase in its GDP in 2022. We don't. The European Commission argues that Greece will grow by 6%, when the average Eurozone is about 4%, and this growth will lead to primary surpluses rather than the primary surpluses in growth. The European Commission supports - not the Greek Government - that investment will increase by 15%, when the average Eurozone will be 5% in 2022. The European Commission argues that exports will increase in Greece by 8%, when the average Eurozone will be zero. Let the Greek Government talk about some other estimates. It therefore appears that with our policies on these seven axes we are achieving sustainable growth, radical redirection, transformation of the country's production base, increasing the public's available income, creating many good jobs and a fair distribution of national wealth, while reducing inequalities. Ladies and gentlemen, by closing, today, I have told you of 15 indicators of the economy, seven medium-term economic targets and seven policy axes, all of which make up an integrated, coherent, documented and realistic economic strategy. I didn't hear anything from any party. We know where we are and we know where we want to go. Developments inspire realistic optimism that we will succeed. With a glance in the future, we are working hard on it. We have a vision, a strategic plan and, above all, a belief in history, the potential and prospects of its country and its citizens. It is a duty for all of us - and I am referring specifically to the good many pages of our history and of the next generations - to have an internationally dignified and constantly strong homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u169	Madam President, could I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u170	Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u171	I listened very interestingly to the position of the Minister of Finance. Of course, Minister, I would like what you said 'in less than two years despite the crisis', to reverse it, that thanks to the crisis and the escape clause you have been able to have a flexible budget to implement many of the tax measures that you have said. You are talking about 41 billion inflows and 41 billion outflows, accounting for 41 billion - the medium term says it - the 6 billion banks. I don't know if bank money feels like government money, but you didn't tell us anything, forty minutes, about what you're going to do to increase bank liquidity in business. You didn't say anything. Forty minutes you spoke about the whole context, the spectrum, the policy, and you said absolutely nothing about it. You celebrate for the twenty - three thousand fourscore - eight applications made in the extrajudicial. I told you a moment ago that one million and fifty thousand taxpayers are under forced collection measures. And you and Mr. Brutsis celebrate that 47% of red loans are in banks. Of course, it's half the way, because the others have gone to the servicer, but they're half the way they're doing forced execution. Let's see how many adjustments are going to be made to this. And finally something optimistic. In the whole debate I see your reference as positive - and this is the first time, I think, which is heard by a member of the government - that you will seek to reduce the primary surplus targets below what you have predicted for 2024 and 2025 and reach up to 3.7%, so below and below the target of 3.5% that we have committed. So this is what the government is putting the bat for the first time. In the debate you have also expressed an optimism that the rest of what you have described from what you will agree will be used for development purposes. 'Behold, Rhodes, behold, and fuck.' We support this effort, since it is the government's commitment and effort, formally expressed today in plenary, that it will claim the surpluses to be below the targets of the medium-term, because we all agree that this objective will be in the interests of the vast majority of Greek citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u173	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u174	Yes, Mr. Colleague, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u175	Minister, I will not comment on what you have said. We've been through it many times. But I really didn't understand about health. In other words, I did not understand whether public spending as a percentage of GDP in five years would be converging to the European Union average and what percentage you would be happy with. Why did you tell us absolute, costing numbers? In other words, what is the aim of public spending as a percentage of GDP in the five years, and whether this percentage of our target reaches us somewhere close to the average of the European Union?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u177	We said not to intervene any more to listen to colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u178	Minister, if you want to give a one-minute answer, it's not a question. After colleagues ask you questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u179	In titles: I gave you the rise of ceilings. Obviously, if you split up with GDP, you get the results. Secondly, I would like to say that I am very pleased Tax reductions were made before the health crisis, not only did ENPIA. The taxation on natural persons at the lowest incomes, the increase in tax on each child, the reduction in corporate taxation, the incentives for construction, the tax incentives for start-ups were made before the economic crisis. And, thirdly, don't make the same mistake, you repeat it. They're not targets. You said that again in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u180	You set the target, you said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u181	They are the primary surpluses resulting from economic policy pursued and from economic recovery and growth rates. Today we are not in a position to tell you in 2025 all of Europe what budgetary objectives and rules it will have. When we define them at European level, and Greece will also be involved - and obviously we want and have lower primary surpluses - we will make use of any financial area, particularly in the direction of reductions in taxes and insurance contributions, but also in increasing and strengthening social policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, too, Minister. Now Mr Maraveyas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u183	Thank you very much, Madam President. Very optimisticly the messages of your speech, Minister, although we are probably not all at the same wavelength in this Chamber. Because I have heard criticism from colleagues from the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs that the new medium-term contains nothing new, that it only includes what the government has announced for the next four years. First of all, this could only be positive for us, as it demonstrates that the New Democracy respects its commitments and applies the programme for which the Greek people voted, even beyond the coronary shell. Minister, the medium-term indeed includes the country's strategic development plan in the years to come. It contains both direct budgetary interventions and indirect effects on the budget by a large number of flagship projects, programmes and investment that change the country's future. A very recent example is the huge first instalment paid by the private investor to exploit the Greek, a project that will determine Attica's economic and environmental development for the next decades. The start of the investment at the former airport of Greece was consistently one of the important government's development priorities. Because it is not only about the social fabric around the property of the metropolitan pole of Greek - Agios Kosmas or the economy of Attica. It also concerns the development of the largest urban park in Europe, open to the public, with more than two thousand acres, which will be a bridge between the seafront and the mountainous volume of Hymettos and a major green lung for the Athens urban fabric. Similar visionary works bring to our country and the Recovery Fund. Already in 2021, a positive contribution to growth is estimated at 1.4%, while the resulting average growth rate in the annual growth rate of the period 2021-2025 is estimated at 1.3 percentage points only from the Recovery Fund. This is therefore a forward-looking financial programme, which is planned to be implemented in most of the medium-term debated, with emphasis on public infrastructure projects, PPP for infrastructure, public-sector reform actions in services and equipment and private investment. The main priorities of the project are green development, digital transition, employment, health, education, social protection and, of course, the attraction of new private investment, with the ultimate aim of transforming the national economy. Total European support amounts to EUR 30.5 billion, but the project aims to attract other EUR 26.5 billion, including both investors' own resources and bank loans to complete the new projects. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan is a studied road map with a hundred seventy projects, investments and reforms totalling 57 billion euros, pertaining to each Greek and every Greek, creating an additional two hundred thousand jobs and increasing GDP by 7 points in the next six years than if the Recovery Fund did not exist. A characteristic example of new public investment is the additional support of the Ministry of Health directly with 47 million and 241 million in 2022, 267 million in 2023, 293 million in 2024 and 229 million in 2025 only through the Recovery Fund itself. This is therefore more than EUR 1 billion directed towards three main priorities: The digital transformation of the health sector, including, inter alia, the development of a national electronic health record for citizens and clinical information systems and, secondly, the strengthening of telemedicine actions. Secondly, in primary health care, with the upgrading of health center infrastructure and medical equipment, the retraining of their staff and the care of chronic illness and relief. Thirdly, a very important axis is that of the renovations and modernisation of hospitals, with integrated interventions to upgrade the ESS's logistics infrastructures across Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a huge bet for the development of our country, which the Greek Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is winning every day because it is not just the Recovery Fund. And I am talking about the use of a total of EUR 72 billion for the years 2021-2027 coming from the European Union. In practice this means new NSRF, new financial instruments for farmers and productive businesses and, of course, closure of the previous NSRF. Here too, we need to make some findings about the previous NSRP 2014 to 2020, to avoid future mistakes. As far as European funding is concerned, we received just two years ago from the previous government - let me say - a shipwreck. billions of European resources had accumulated unreservedly, due to the administrative incapacity of the previous government. Critical programmes, such as the ENPANEC for innovation, had to show disappointing absorption, depriving the economy of valuable funds. This situation has been fully reversed by the New Democracy, which, on the basis of the pandemic, has managed to make use of the EUR billion ponds, strengthening millions of beneficiaries in the real economy. The previous one, however, unbelievable fiasco of the previous government underlines the importance of European funds to support society and the development of the national economy, that is, the future of the country, which all citizens expect to be better, brighter and more confident of themselves and their children. Just this new hopeful prospect of the Mediterranean is perhaps the best way to mark the beginning of the third century of the modern Greek state and, at the same time, to commit that the two centuries from Palaggeia will be the headline for the best Greece we have ever known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u184	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, for being consistent in your time. Mr Alexiadis now has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Madam President. Because there was a comment before me and my term of office in the Ministry of Finance, I would like to say and remind you that, despite having statistics - not from a quality point of view, but from a statistical point of view - the first place among the ministers of the then government in speeches and in responses to timely questions, I have never been overrun from eighteen minutes to thirty-seven minutes! If there's any such argument, I'd like to hear it and ask for a public apologies next time. But our disagreement, Minister, is not at the time of the speech, where you took thirty-seven minutes. It's in the contents of the speech. We are now coming to discuss the medium-term and right here, because it is important to discuss these issues at Parliament level. I leave what you were saying as a New Democracy while you were in the opposition and what you were holding a stand against SYRIZA. These, together with many others, you have forgotten about them and you have omitted them. We're coming to today. It is good to talk about it, and that is why we have come with our speeches on the respective committee and Mrs Papanatziou and Euklidis Tsakalotou and with an interview in public by Achtieoglou, the relevant sectoral director, and we have placed our views publicly, critically and critically. What did you answer that for? Because we understand your allergy in dialogue, because you do not want to have a dialogue. You don't even have a dialogue with the social and productive actors, you don't have a dialogue with the parties in the House. I understand your fear of dialogue as a New Democracy. So you prefer monologues to television and not to dare. I do not remember, Minister - I challenge you to remind me of this later, in some of your speeches - when have you come out on a television broadcast along with a representative of another party to discuss economic policy issues? I wish you'd do it the next time. I'm available for my field whenever you have time. However, with regard to whether or not there will be any real debate, I do not understand Mr Psulakakis' intervention in particular. As you know, Mr. Skylakakis and Mr. Georgiadis are my favourite ministers, politically my beloved ministers, because they are very clear in what they say. They're not hiding, they're not protecting themselves. They're very clear about what they're saying and what they're broadcasting. So Mr. Syriza comes and says he didn't make any criticisms and suggestions. He's not here. If he were here, I would cross the line of political courtesy and answer him. But I want to understand whether this man, who is a minister, is following the meetings of the committees, is following what we say in this Chamber. Does he have any political arguments? I understand that he wants to write down and erase part of his political past for certain reasons, but let him respect his political interlocutors in elementary terms. We come to discuss the medium-term and, on the side of SYRIZA, there have been sound criticisms and proper positions. But here comes a question: What is the medium-term? It is an exercise, a debate, a necessary debate for a provision. And the ordinary citizen asks: Those who make this prediction fell out to other predictions? Did New Democracy and the Change Movement - PASOK earlier - fall out into predictions and lead the country to the rocks and bankruptcy? Yes or no? But, since you took over, two years ago, for the deficit in 2020, did you or did you not fall out of your forecasts? Because when we were talking about the deficit, you were telling us here about destructiveists, etc. And the deficit has been cut many times from what we told you. Who fell out on his predictions? And what about the 2021 deficit? Let's see your prediction. So, in relation to those who politically move the finger on SYRIZA, let them answer first what they predicted before 2014 and what they did about how we got to the crisis. And I hope that the favourite Minister, Mr. Skylakakis, will come at some point in the House to agree to hold a substantial debate, whether here or wherever he wants, and to reply to us. Is this location for the SYRIZA reserve of 37 billion if it was right or not, is it still in force or is it wrong? Besides, Minister, one hundred and thirty pages of the Long-term, there is the real economy. Yesterday I went to a pharmacy in my neighborhood and they said: "What happened? Have the money you've left over yet?" I say: 'Why?' Yesterday the pharmacists were paid. I am presenting to the Minutes a full post from a specific blogspot of pharmacists, who are being inaugurated because you are late to submit a explanatory statement and yesterday 30 June that the pharmacists had to pay and people had cheques, have not been paid! Well, I said to them, "Well, don't be overreacting now. There would be a problem, as with the pensions that have not been paid, because a technical problem would have been such. Now they are doing other things in the final state.’ I tried to justify it, too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Treasurer Alexiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But then I come home, I read and see, your Minister and top minister: "There is no money, there is no more money. If a pandemic comes in winter, we're done financially." And that's what you need to answer. You're the Minister of Finance. You have to answer. Your Minister's lying, hasn't he heard or anything else going on? Because if we combine it with one another, we're driving somewhere. And this responsible Minister, my beloved political minister, is a Minister responsible for development. He's the one who meets with investors. What's he gonna tell them? That we don't have any money? It is the Minister who is involved in the bond markets, who is the country's international image in investment. He said: "We flew with the banks." Asks another citizen: Do you realize that the banks increased their takeover costs with businesses from 40% to 100%? So, a craftsman in Peristeri who paid 0.20% per cheque body has reached 0.40% - these are you talking about? - and for every payment from 1 euro to 1,40? Are you talking to the banks that they show the way out to twelve thousand workers, with huge impacts on the unemployment and civil service issues? I should like to close, Madam President, because I do not want to abuse time, with two remarks. It was heard - both from the New Democracy and the Change Movement - a reference to a particular taxpayer, who in a court case was justified. I read in Kathimerini about "Drimf I blame Samaras against Tsipras" for this particular taxpayer. I also entered the site of New Democracy, I saw no posting anywhere, some technical reason would exist. But I don't understand, the tax control command for this taxpayer on a SYRIZA came out? Did SYRIZA order tax control for this taxpayer? If there is even one post, if there is a parliamentary report, if there is one speech you have said that Alexiades as the competent Deputy Minister has intervened against this taxpayer, go out and say it here, in public, and bring what you said at the time, not now that you remembered it. And I say this because we, the only intervention we made as SYRIZA government - and we are proud of it - are to speed up the checks on the Lagard list, because we were seeing the limitations that were coming, because for your days it had been set and we ran. And one last word on the question of the functioning of Parliament. With Paul Paul Paul one can agree politically or disagree. But here we have a matter for Parliament. That is why the SYRIZA Members' letter to the President of the Committee on Civil Liberties and our reports in general and the fight we are giving. One might agree or disagree, but what is being done with the fall of a Member for his political or scientific views, as long as one agrees or disagrees with it, is a political issue of democracy, which concerns Parliament as a whole. And on this matter Paul is not alone. We're all with him. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u186	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, let us be a little more pedestrian than what you have been analyzing here in half an hour, and let us answer this question: from the medium-term programme who wins and who loses? I believe that is a catalytic question for the workers, the self-employed, the retired, the youth. Is there an answer to that? We say that there is, of course, an answer to this and they give it the same kind of medium-term information that you have made public, and today we are talking about it. Should we, for example, see tax revenue? On the basis of your own information, you say that in 2025 tax revenues will reach EUR 58 billion, that is to say it will increase by EUR 13 billion since 2021. Where will the bulk of this extra revenue come from? 70% - 70%, I repeat! -, that is, 9 billion will come from the increase in indirect taxes on the most anti-grassed taxes, which are an additional 6 billion, and the remaining 3 billion will come from an increase in income from the tax on natural persons. So, in other words, you say that from the largest tax revenue pie it will increase even further the part that the people will pay and reduce - what part? - the part paid by business groups. This is in terms of the revenue side. Let's go to the spending section, too. Does the payroll remain frozen in 2025 at the same material levels as 2021? It's still cold. What does that mean? That GDP growth is not translated into an increase in wage spending. In other words, payroll costs will therefore be reduced as a percentage of GDP. Does the total health expenditure in 2025 remain at the same level as in 2021? They're still here. What does that mean? In a pie that grows, because it will grow as you say GDP - the health-oriented costs will be reduced by a percentage. That means that the mess of primary health care, which we see every day, will remain and will not be addressed. In education at the same level, total expenditure in 2025 remains again compared with 2021. So, as a percentage of GDP, the costs of education are falling. And, of course, the effect of the medium-term is obvious. Return in 2023 to bloody primary surpluses and enhanced, of course, supervision. And that is precisely what this objective is to continue with the SYRIZA medium-term programme, the SYRIZA government. So it is clear that the medium-term is anti-grassy. It makes a substantial redistribution at the expense of the many and for the benefit of the few. And that is why it is not by chance the expression itself of the opinion of the Greek Financial Council where on page 2 the medium-term investment orientation is evident. So, in other words, a large part of the pie will go to serve the big business groups. But the forecasts for GDP growth in the medium term are predictions which lead to uncertain and precarious growth. Of course, we are not only talking about the case of a fourth pandemic wave after summer due to the "Delta" mutation of the virus. And the government remains in the irrational logic of individual responsibility and the refusal to shield the public health system. But there are other risk of prediction, such as red loans. Because you may have said, Minister, that they are falling, but you have not taken into account the new generation of red loans from the new capitalist crisis, nor of course you say that this reduction in red loans was simply a transfer of red loans from the banks, so that the private debt remains at a gigantic level, and of course the risk of auctioning for red loans on the basis of the new bankruptcy code over the poor populaces. But what do your own figures say, Minister, even if 6.2% is reached in 2022? Did you really take into account the accounting increase in GDP that will result from the increase in objective values? But even if this 6.2% is achieved, it is certain that returning to 2019 levels will take place after four years, that is, in 2023 and we see. And from this point of view, the fact is that your agony and anguish of the government, not just you personally, is obvious to every measure you take. Like, for example, your attempt to buy out the vaccination of young people with the gift card in addition to a degenerated version of individual responsibility and an attempt to cover up the nakedness of the public health system, is also a move on the basis of funding the business groups involved in transport, shipping and tourism. Because once again, your forecasts of the course of tourism prove to be too long. It is another sign of the irrationalism of government policy which, instead of supporting the public health system and especially primary health care, ultimately undermines the protection of the health of the people and young people by the gift card itself. But let's see more specifically what you say in the medium term. We should take and consider the course of private consumption. The course of private consumption shows that it will be half of GDP growth. So what does that mean? That less and less of the produced pie will go to the popular layers. So they're going to get poorer and poorer after growing up the piece of the pie and who's getting less? People's mattresses. You are talking about increasing private consumption, which will be just as much as the reduction of unemployment. In other words, you admit that wages in 2025 will remain locked at the levels of 2021, even during the growth period. The increase in private consumption is nominal because a large part of it is related to an increase in the price. In other words, the real increase in private consumption tends to zero. This confirms that the characteristic of "Greece 2.0" will remain the relative impoverishment of a very large proportion of our people and youth. The medium-term programme that complements the Recovery Fund is a tool to serve the management needs of the capitalist crisis and the need for the capitalist transition, and of course it also has a series of anti-popular prerequisites for disbursement and disbursement, prerequisites which are the so-called 'best European practices' at European Union level. That is why it is a pan-European memorandum. These 'best practices' are reflected in the labour monastery which was voted on a short time ago, by settling working time, by cheap and disposable workers, by stepping up labour, increasing the farm to shield the competitiveness and profitability of business groups. It will follow the next prerequisite, i.e. the creation of an ancillary fund with a capitalisation system which will, in essence, give businesses warm money, gambling employees' contributions to the financial markets. And you say any losses from this gaming will be covered by the state budget. And perhaps the holes in the existing subsidiary fund will also be covered by the reduction in the contributions of young workers. So it will lead to a reduction in the total amount of ancillary contributions from the new fund and, of course, to a huge redistribution of wealth for the benefit of the few, but also to a redistribution among the many who will be called through taxation to cover the holes and gaps of subsidiary insurance due to gambling. Of course, other laws, a new investment law, a new reduction in the tax rates for business groups, will follow. All these measures are clearly not ideological blindness measures because of neoliberalism, as the other parties criticise you, and we stress that they are necessary for capitalist development. That is why they are being implemented everywhere, in total in the European Union, that is to say, the 'best European practices' you replicate in Greece as well. They are measures implemented by SYRIZA when it was in the government and today the New Democracy Government continues to implement them because the cheap labour force is the other side of the capitalist recovery. The recovery of capital profits requires fixed wages, requires a reduction in so-called non-wage costs, and requires flexibility in the labour market. The new round of green and digital investment requires a low tax on large capital and a shift in people's taxation. It takes large packages of funding to the groups that the people will pay for in the next phase. That is why the medium-term policy is not new. Memorandums and Memorandum commitments are reflected in those who faithfully served both SYRIZA and New Democracy today. In other words, it has the same anti-grass, the same direction as the prerequisites for the Recovery Fund. In essence, we say clearly that even this proposal tabled by SYRIZA for the 'new social contract' is not simply impracticable, but is an extremely dangerous proposal for the people and the youth, for the working class. SYRIZA's proposal is a proposal for class cooperation between the people and business groups to bring capitalist growth. In other words, you call on the workers to bend their heads, to submit to the impoverishment of green digital capitalism. The "new social contract" presented by SYRIZA is nothing but a resurrected social-democratic soup of some of the philosophical capitalism that always comes and never comes in at the end. The proposal that Mr Tsakalotos made to us a moment ago for three, four points which we can all converge together in order to reduce, he says, inequality. That is, essentially, asking us to accept inequality, to accept stealing at the expense of workers, and simply to reduce the rate of stealing for a little while while inequality due to the new technology is growing geometrically. So the course itself confirms that capitalist development cannot be a philosophical one. Even if you call on Biden to try and change this, you can't cover that Biden, the other pro-collegiate and social democrat, bombs the entire Middle East and prepares for new interventions in the world. The development that the government claims will either be sustainable or post-capitalist growth, as some other parties say, is nothing more than a concrete attempt to cover up their agreement to defend an obsolete system, such as the capitalist system, a rotten and deep reactionary system that expands every day between the possibilities of satisfying the people's needs and the level of this satisfaction. The answer to people's deadlocks and people's problems cannot be found in the capitalist system. That is why the JRC is proposing the conflict and revolutionary overthrow of this situation. Socialism is the future of humanity. It is the man who can free the man from the sufferings of capitalism, i.e. organise the economy, exploiting all the technological and scientific capabilities, with the aim of satisfying the people's needs and not capitalist profit. Mr. Skakakis may mock as much as he likes socialism, but this mocking cannot cover up his inability to answer the relentless question because while technology gives the world a better chance of living. And he doesn't answer our questions, not because he can't, but because if he dares answer, his account, your account, which is a common account of all of you. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u188	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Baraliacos from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, we are called upon to adopt the medium-term financial strategy framework for the next three years for the development of our country. It is a framework of fiscal indicators and objectives, which have been tested throughout the pandemic crisis. These budgetary objectives are now being formulated and formulated under the control of the pandemic, the relaxation of the containment measures and the uninterrupted implementation of the vaccination programme throughout the general population. So on condition that we leave behind on the dark days of the pandemic, this medium-term shows in practice the signal of our liberal economic policy at all levels. The main components of the financial framework outline the ideological sign of New Democracy's governance on how the productive model of our country is envisioned in the years to come. Immediate recovery, steady upwards and rapid growth, which will be established in a stable and strong way. The gradual return to primary surpluses and the simultaneous fall in general government debt, the growing growth rates, the fall in unemployment as a result of capital influx, the attraction of investment and the subsequent creation of jobs, as well as the increase in the taxpayer's taxable income while reducing tax rates are the cornerstone of fiscal policy in the years to come. In short, visionary realism, prudent financial management with a clear development mark for everyone. After all, this was also the New Democracy Government's planning objective at the outset. Already, the development train had shifted to tracks of irreversible economic progress, which the pandemic temporarily interrupted. It showed, however, that thanks to the early steps of the implementation of our programme, the Greek economy endured and was finally back on its feet with the fewest possible losses. And to speak with numbers, ladies and gentlemen, investment is expected to increase this year, 30.3% in 2022 and to remain at high levels of growth for the coming years 12.3% in 2023, 10.8% in 2024 and 7.4% in 2025 due to the resources of the National Development Plan, which will make a significant contribution to the high yields for the Greek economy in the years ahead. GDP growth of around 6.2% in 2022 and 4% on average for the rest of the period of the Medium-term Financial Strategy Programme. Investment is the most crucial bet of all. It will be the catalyst for the total recovery of the Greek economy, mainly because investment will create jobs for our young people who, not only will be forced to leave abroad, but will remain in our home country for high-paid services. We also achieve Brain Gain and strengthen social mobility. Decrease in unemployment to 11.1% for 2025 compared with 11.9% in 2024, 13.2% in 2023, 14.4% in 2022 and 16.3% this year is foreseen in the Medium-term Financial Strategy Programme. It is worth noting, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not hesitate and weigh every detail in a future that can hide uncertainties and unforeseen circumstances. That is why three different scenarios have been foreseen as percentage deviations from our basic scenario. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan "Greece 2.0". The overall resources for the project amount to EUR 30.5 billion by 2026, of which EUR 17.8 billion are grants and EUR 12.7 billion are loans. It is a unique opportunity to accelerate our country's economic recovery, with the aim of the total investment resources that will be activated to amount to about EUR 59 billion, that is double the size of the Recovery and Resilience Fund itself. Development will focus on four pillars: the green transition, digital transformation, increased employment, investment and institutional transformation. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek economy has passed through solid stones and has managed not to collapse and to remain upright in unprecedented circumstances. It was the wise economic policy, without inexorable populism and the correct allocation of resources implemented by the Ministry of Finance's leadership, which gave a two-tier equation the right and quick solution. We're already setting the bases to make the jump faster than wear. With an optimistic look at the future, with realism and prudence to the decisions of the present, we leave behind the gloomy and uncertain days of the past. We win the recovery bet and we put Greece on the global development plan for the next day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u190	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mrs Lykoulis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u191	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, I must tell you, before I share with our colleagues, with our people, some thoughts of your courage with our citizens. Honestly I tell you, having such children and biblicals, bringing here the medium term into such conditions that are shaped in the Greek society, in which you and we live and do not think we are in a parallel universe, really when you say all these things with such confidence and optimism, I don't know what to say. You met, of course, today - I was thinking before - at the crossroads of history and fate. I believe the fate of history very much. The more I read history, the more, you know, I believe it. You are on the same day today, six years later, when the Chief of Officer's Vice-Population, Mr. Tsipras, came out at a diary to the Greek people to ask him to vote 'no' in the referendum. And 'no' was an inducement for a strong economy and for a strong democracy and for a strong Greece and we all know exactly what happened to the argument, the project and together the history of what he wrote about this political reproach. So you're matched to this, you're coming to the crossroads. You want, you don't want, you chose it together. You come here to give us a success story and you will not even tell us what design specific is in these circumstances that you are going to achieve. We're chasing the regularity, which for you probably is a given thing, when you're billing the young people to come to be vaccinated and you know that the immunity wall right now is not a blanket wall, but not one of those old brick walls, pre-war walls. Although you are putting bleaching every media that you have depended on the notorious list of Pechas, the livan is not so powerful as to cover the naphthalene of an old policy that you are going to implement today. The economic success story cannot be passed this way, Minister. It cannot change the sense, the general conviction, the arrogant landscape of economics and the result of two respondent winters, which if you want to make the account and find the sum ultimately we have an increase in the deliberation together and the mental illnesses, of course, of course, greedy tourist activity. This is linked to your own account. But I would remind you that in the past, as in the years 2013, 2014, there were elections followed by a third memorial to those who said they would break with a law and an article and, of course, Mr Samaras' earlier success story was probably the non-uccess story and that brought us the other ones. So the beautiful, success story burns, says history, I don't say it, which I imagine you read with great interest as you are due. You are well at psychological level and welcome to the government you tell us by hitting the shoulder 'Everything will be fine'. Is that enough? 'It's the economic, stupid' has said a candidate President of the United States and the economy is governed by its own logic, which far from being because I want to convince the citizens that this will be done. Can the press reports for the next few years convince businessmen, tourism entrepreneurs especially and focus, farmers, public and private employees, generally all economically active citizens that things are going well at the moment or even that they will be improved in the near future? Without planning, Minister, how are these going to be? [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] So don't you think and do not see the small and big business that slowly knocks at the door of their accounting right now, the little or the greater calamity, returning as it says and her name? So are they ready? Do you think they've picked up the last two months, which has half-opened the thing? Do you think that they have a capable compost to now meet the needs of everyday life and the needs that are hard and stable and does not allow them to breathe business? Or do you think the world of the economy and businessmen, like us, of course, did not hear the Minister for Development, Vice-President of your party, speaking and saying that you wanted to close down in winter and actually go bankrupt, why is there not one? That's actually what he said. But what do we have to witness when the Budget Office of the House itself decides that the medium-term programme is uncertain? They say it, we don't. And he finds that everything depends on the course of the pandemic, whose mutations are literally unpredictable, and that the wall we talked about before, by a duvet and not a Chinaian, has not yet been made. So economic territory is completely uncertain. No one can express any kind of optimism about the development of the economy in the next five years. That's why I told you at the outset that joy in your courage is that you're really trying to do psychological injections to the Greek people, but you have to say it, because every therapist has to tell you to the healer, that I do this for psychological reasons and not that he really touches on real life. Minister, we, the Change Movement, have even warned you before Christmas, both for macro-economics and budgetary figures. When the Office observes that the Gross National Product of 2021 is expected to increase considerably less than the Christmas optimism exercise - which is why I am talking about psychology - then when you called it a 'budget' and predicted an increase in GDP of 4.8%. When you were saying this a few months ago and now you are telling us this, as you can see, there is a considerable distrust. All these unfavourable elements therefore make an image, an image for households, an image for businesses, an image for every person who wants to go to life with optimism and a plan. In my capacity as the head of the interior of the Change Movement, I want to make a point to you. I am concerned and I am concerned, because you really do not see in this plan, which you say you have, that there is a distinct role of the Local Government I and II bodies. They are resurrected, Minister, against the central government. Unfortunately, the necessary recruitments in the five-year period are predicted to be supported by just two and a half thousand net recruitments compared with the several tens of thousands planned by the central government. How will you build the state with the staff, the staff and the chiefs we have yet to understand what these people are finally accomplishing? Unfortunately, as you can see, we cannot be optimistic. In conclusion, I would like to say that some people can applaud, some can say that they have more backs than others. We have proved, Minister, whether we put our backs on or not. And can I tell you something? We want the plan to work. We are not one of those negligents of all kinds who want to undermine the work of the government. But we cannot applaud your political super myself, nor can we mock your economic narcissism, nor can we pretend that we believe the illusions. You guys have others for this job. We have work to do and not work. Our job is to remind every time of the data and bring back to reality the political forces, but also the Greek people who need to know. The project 'Greece 2.0' will follow 3, 4, 5 and various verandas in the future. Do you know what it is? I wish we could count only numbers of plans. The question is not to measure numbers of lost lives and undercutting people. Because as you can see, Minister, things are not going well, neither inside nor outside. This is a reality that you must admit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Liikali. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u193	Thank you very much. Mrs Oomen-Ruijten is the fifteenth member of the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left - and I have tabled a table. I heard him say about narcissism, about hallucinations, about optimistic predictions, and that they're recording the data themselves and not us. I challenge the next speakers. I've filed a painting. We're saying we have growth this year. Everyone around the world says growth will be from 5% to 6% this year. I want you to comment on the assessments of all others, the European Commission, OECD, banks, rating houses that are more optimistic than the Greek Government. Fifteen colleagues have not been put, nor of course the parliamentary representatives of all the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, too. Mrs Anna Happily from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, my position on the medium-term framework for the 2022-2025 financial strategy to be adopted will be based on three axes: The first is what marks the country's economic perspective, the second is whether the criticism of counter-population is justified and the third is in the context of the medium-term, if it highlights a number of measures which are more necessary either by category, or targeted at specific social groups in more immediate time. On the first axis, the following financial data are recorded: In the coming years Greece will run positively. In fact, it is the conservative assessment, as the Minister who tabled the Minutes, which we did not hear from the opposition. Secondly, since 2023, we will return to primary surpluses gradually increasing. Thirdly, the unemployment rate is expected to fall. Fourthly, the driving force of domestic demand is expected to be investment, reaching a share of GDP of 16.7% in 2025. Fifthly, the volume of private consumption is expected to return in 2022 to the 2019 level, recovering all the losses of the health crisis. All of the above shall be schematically captured in Table 2 of the Medium term. A decisive contribution to this development will have the National Development, Recovery and Resilience Plan "Greece 2.0" which, through ambitious reforms, seeks to lead to a more extrovertive, more competitive, more environmentally friendly economic model with a tax regime wanting to invest and an effective social protection net. In fact, it will make a decisive contribution to reducing Greece's investment gap as schematically reflected in the diagram under number 7. But what are the criticisms of counterpopulation? The major Opposition, as expressed by its rapporteur, Mrs Papanatsiou, focuses on the fact that the present Medium-term is an empty plan and wish, and on the other hand, that there is no established attitude of the Greek Government in the discussions on the future after the pandemic at European institutions level on the basis of the Stability and Growth Pact. First of all, it must be borne in mind that this medium-term is being discussed and voted under a very high uncertainty regime involving pandemic, pandemic mutations and how the vaccinations will go internationally in our country. The general escape clause is also applied and extended for 2022. What does that mean? That we are not allowed to take permanent measures beyond 0.1% of GDP. In addition, it is very important that there is no knowledge of the budgetary targets for after 2023. So when Europe has not planned its own economic policy, which is obviously aware that there are also uncertain factors, such as the risk of rising raw materials prices, such as the risk of America's interest rates, how is it possible and realistic to be reflected in the present medium-term when we are not aware of the objectives that exist before us? It is therefore premature and precarious to make such predictions. Apart from that, however, the criticisms of the Officerate focus on the fact that there are no words of work, society, workers and health. In 2021, dependent labour pay is expected to return almost entirely to the level before the pandemic, thanks to the increase in employment by 0.7% while the nominal average wage is expected to remain at 2019 levels. With regard to the longer-term prospects, the level of employment and nominal average wages is expected to exceed the 2019 level by 1.6% and 1.1% respectively. In the social security section, pension costs account for up to 2025 a gradual small increase. OPEKA's expenditure on social benefits shows a relative stability for that reference period. The OAU's expenditure is shaped by active employment policies and the reduction of unemployment and relatively stable expenditure on payment of unemployment benefits. In fact, we have heard particular criticisms of the reduction of three percentage points in insurance contributions, but there seems to be no reduction in expenditure, as reflected by the OAED. So these criticisms were obviously unfounded. All of this is reflected in Table 8, in the transfer of regular budgets to agencies outside and within government, but also in Table 11 where the social budget is analysed. Indeed, it is predicted that the Recovery Fund will be social expenditure of EUR 1,2 billion. The medium-term beyond all this is a purely technocratic text. However, I believe that politically it also includes a vision of policy. In the context of the medium-term vote, therefore, I believe that, if the budget area so permits and budgetary objectives are set by the European Union, two lines should also be targeted. The first to further reduce the tax rates for natural and legal persons is something that is also in the New Democracy culture and is also a pre-election commitment, but also to permanentise some measures, such as maintaining a reduction in insurance contributions by three percentage points, and not paying for the solidarity levy in the private sector. It is important, Minister, that you have explained to us today that the difference that will arise from the forecasts in the primary surpluses and from the objectives that will be set, which will be lower, as you appreciate, will be directed towards social policy. But I think it would be beneficial for him to go to another side. Given the nature and place of the new generation and I am genuinely representing the generation of the Memorandum of Crisis and Brain Drain, I believe that in this context we should set targets not only for the creation of new jobs but also for the creation of jobs that will not bring job precariousness but also for the full absorption and evaluation of all the skills that young people will have after the training and retraining programmes provided for under the Recovery Fund. And of course, in addition, these jobs should be well paid. That is why, when the conditions allow it, I believe that it is of paramount importance to raise the minimum wage. To conclude, and very importantly, the messages received from Thessaloniki society and producer organisations are that there are no special actions in the Recovery Fund for the city. So I appreciate that both the state and the local government of the first and second degrees must take action on this matter to see what more we can claim for Thessaloniki. This request is even more up-to-date as the decision of the Metro Council was cleared yesterday. The Minister responsible said "We are not wasting any more time. We are moving forward" and because I have been involved in the metro of Thessaloniki over time, since I was a municipal councillor, in all its dimensions, I support the fact that this work must be run quickly and that the Thessalonians have a metro at the planned times. It goes without saying that the same must be done with all the work in progress in the city. With these thoughts, I am voting in favour of the medium-term.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u196	Mrs Theano Fotio is called in Step by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Elected in the Second South Athens Sector. He always keeps seven minutes. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President, for your kind words. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in our view you are presenting an inappropriate, unrealistic medium-term plan, which you are voting for on your own, where in the last three years 2023-024-2025 you think you will have a similar development in 2004, the Olympic Games. But for this to happen in the first two years, 2021 and 2022, on the basis of your own report, and as Parliament's Budget Office says, you are abolishing all the inadequate support and tax relief measures that you have taken for the pandemic, that is, sixty-five measures in total. Will you answer me, Minister? I've read it very thoroughly. You declare that you will collect 3.9 billion taxes in 2022. I hope so. In other words, businesses and households will lose 7.6 billion from state aid to stop and pay even 3.9 billion taxes. This is both refreshing in our view and the prediction that growth will come from the explosive growth in investment by 30% when in Europe at that time it will have 5%. That Moses himself couldn't do. Which businesses, workers, unemployed and households will pay all these taxes? The ones who will be thrown out of the anti-laboratory and who will also have the bankruptcy law next door? But let us move on to the debate, Mr Minister. I won't stand on this. Let's see what the medium term holds for welfare. I will admit that even your assessments will be confirmed, to prove that in the area of our social welfare you are turning to neoliberal perceptions and the amounts of 2015 proportionately. I'll explain. Firstly, as you know, Minister, as you have studied it, there was no provision for Greece. In the European Charter, it had expenditure of 0.04% of GDP, when Europe's average was 4.1% of GDP and is still 4.1%. So we received it from the New Democracy at nearly 780 million, almost over-five times and reached it at 3,450 billion in 2019 - there we delivered it to you - that is about 2% of GDP. The question that Mr Tsakalotos is constantly asking you is whether you at last have any objective, if you will be converging with what you say to health, education. I ask you: will you be shocked at what you say at 4.1% of the European average for welfare? We budgeted that we would double, i.e. reach 7 billion in the next four years, from 2019 onwards. I don't see a thing like that. What does your medium term say? That the years of great growth, 2023, 2024, 2025, welfare will remain at 3.5 billion. Do I read it wrong? It's 76 million or even more. So it's funny to talk about it. Is that the welfare of big growth? Why are you doing this? First of all, why do you think that welfare money is anti-developmental? This perception collapsed, in December 2019, when you cut 700 million dividends, which the market fell down on your knees and the recession that you recorded at the end of 2019, before a pandemic, began. It has been shown that allowances are falling into domestic demand, that they increase consumption, do not go to offshore and savings, and therefore go to demand, to retailing, that is, to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises, to that famous middle-class, to medium-sized strata and create new jobs. Nordic countries know this, which is why all of their scholars say that every euro that they give to welfare is back to the development of the country and to GDP, multiplied by 1.03% - 1.6% depending on where it goes, that is, on services or benefits, etc. Secondly, you show that welfare, the recovery plan brings zero investments. Of course you know that there is a huge investment and development cycle created by the care services in the public and private sectors, as well as within the family. But you want this circle to have it in the hands of the private initiative uncontrollably, at any price. And we saw it in private homes, where people died. At the same time, however, you want these care services to be paid by the family budget and, above all, by women with their invisible work at home. That is why monthly incomes are exhausted in twenty-two or twenty-four days for the majority of citizens, who pay 39% of these expenditures, households, while the average European average is 21%. Of course, we know very well that within the pandemic women have taken all this care in their homes and their unemployment has doubled. Check out the details of ELSTAT. And not to forget, care services are nursery and CIDs, and you haven't even been able to get the invitation yet. And in the next few years, as the medium-term shows, you will not increase the amount involved, meaning the voucher, Minister. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need some more time, Mr. President. So in the next few years, as the medium-term shows, you will not increase the relative amount that we doubled, the voucher, in four years' time. You're not a single euro. And we don't forget that last year you left sixty-five thousand kids out. Thirdly, you believe that predictive expenditure is just for extreme poverty. If there's growth, you say, they don't need any more money. But we have proved that poverty is not falling with growth. In 2015 you handed us child poverty to 26.4% and in 2019 we delivered it to 21.1%. That's not just SYRIZA's achievement. The achievement is that we delivered it a unit lower than the 2004 growth period. We did the same for the percentages of the risk of poverty. In 2005, the risk of poverty was 19.6%. In 2015 you delivered it to us 22.1%, reached 17.9% in 2019. What do the numbers say? What is the moral lesson, Minister, where are you an economist? That poverty is not falling with growth, but with the predictive policies implemented by SYRIZA. Fourthly, not even the minimum guaranteed income is increased in the medium term. The honourable Member said so before. Is it proud of you to leave it at ‘EUR 200’? Did Mr Brutsis say before that you put the minimum guaranteed income in the Constitution of EUR 200 per month and how do you ensure a decent living for up to EUR 200?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u198	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u199	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you. That's a disgrace. We propose emergency income for all citizens, regardless of income, EUR 400 for the first member, EUR 200 for the second, EUR 100 for each child when he is threatened with a decent living, not only by poverty and a lack of housing, but also by the disability of one or more children. That is why we do not separate citizens into vulnerable or non-sensitive. We believe that every citizen can have this in his life. So doubling the welfare expenditure, serves the tripartite that we give the citizens security, for each of us, and reduce family monthly expenses. First, emergency income. Secondly, free public care services in municipalities and regions. Thirdly, recruiting young and women. Fourthly, generous benefits and benefits for the child and the disabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u200	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u201	Benefits for allowances and the medium term freeze them where we gave them to you. All benefits and benefits. So much growth, and so much welfare downgraded. Thank you, Minister, and I am waiting for your reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u202	The bill didn't tell us how much it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u203	I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u204	Please. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u205	You leave the 3.5 billion-dollar account.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u206	How much was it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u207	We think it should go to 7 billion. We had budgeted it so that it would reach the European average. It won't make it to 4.1%, but it'll be close. That's why I told you that you're freezing them as we gave them to you. It's a shame in times of great growth.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u208	Emmanuel Konsolas is called to Stepma from New Democracy and the beautiful Dodecanese.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I fully respect the voice of the Opposition, but there are places that disprove the glorious past of the governance of Officer Opposition, in particular the Officerial Response, ladies and gentlemen, which also has its own past that has been combined with the defiance and collapse of expectations and easy solutions in the face of reality. I do not think Mrs Fotou belongs to this consortium of colleagues. But we need to see the reality at a global glance and not at a prism corner. These sums you said, Mrs Fotou, it is very easy for the Minister for Finance to report on what is going on in this debate. The debate, Mr President, on the medium-term fiscal strategy is not being offered for extremism, it is not for equalisation and, above all, it is not for tendering for easy promises and solutions. The Government presents a roadmap aimed at sustainable and strong growth. In his position, our rapporteur, Mr Karaoglu, was accurate in defining this direction and it is clear. This target is dominated by the medium-term. It's the key to the country's course. It is linked to all economic indicators and, above all, to budgetary objectives. That's not what we're going through. I sincerely believe that there are no illusions. It's good to see it at another glance, as I said in my introduction. After all, deceivers were paid very expensively. There are no illusions in society itself which has now won a high level of maturity. Everyone realises that growth comes through the creation of a climate of confidence. You know very well that the economy is a climate of confidence. We all know that in areas where the country's wealth is produced by the productive activity of tourism. Mr Brutsis, I in the Dodecanese and many of you are aware of it and documented on your own experiences. It is therefore a climate that attracts investment, exploits European resources productively rather than parasiticly and creates conditions to facilitate economic activity. In the medium-term framework of a fiscal strategy, there is a view of the Government's choices and policies to promote the objective of growth. Mr Voutsis made it clear in his position, the Minister made it clear with all his public interventions, but also through the introductory note of this legislative initiative that we are debating today. The country, you know, ladies and gentlemen, does not aim to return to normality as we knew it. The aim is to create new conditions and a new regularity in which high growth, new and well-paid jobs, change in the growth and productive model, digital transformation and strengthening social cohesion. In addition to the objectives, namely, the medium-term forecasts, the production of 70 billion euros from the Recovery Fund, the NSRF and European funds, the mobilisation of 100 billion euros from private funds, the high growth rates calculated at 6.2% for 2022, 4.1% for 2023, 4.4% for 2024 and 3.3% for 2025. A steady growth path, that's the design. Another element concerning the medium-term projections is an increase in investment by 30% for 2022, by 12.3% for 2023, by 10.8% in 2024 and by 7.4% in 2025. I read out the exact figures of forecasts to see how magnified and what dynamic this possibility of attracting investment from abroad takes, but also from within. There is also provision, which is part of this philosophy I have described, for the creation of two hundred thousand jobs which will lead to a fall in unemployment of 11.1% in 2025. Also, something else - because every day we are all a society of problems - is the reduction of red loans to a one-digit percentage from 2022. The increase in private consumption at an average rate of 2.4% in the period 2022-2025 is a very important forecast for each potential investor, each new entrepreneur who wants to operate in the coming years. It's a very important report. Let us say that the creation of a financial area, which will lead to new tax and insurance reductions, is an incentive to productive activity but also a very important prediction. Ladies and gentlemen, even in the pandemic, you have seen this, no one can get past it - it has reduced taxes which are one of the main options for citizens. These are tax reductions such as, firstly, the reduction of the corporate tax rate from 26% to 24% and then 22% and, secondly, the reduction in the tax advance for businesses and professionals. Minister, I consider it particularly important that the provision contained in the medium-term that provides for the permanent basis, the maintenance of a reduction in the rate of advance payment of tax resulting from a 55% business activity for natural persons and 80% for businesses. In addition, Minister, you have suspended the special contribution of solidarity in the private sector and reduced by three percentage points the insurance contributions. It is very important that we give people of the market and, above all, that we create a new financial area. We should also look at the fact that new tax reductions could also be used in the direction of new tax reductions, with priority being given to abolishing the additional tax on HISA, reducing VAT on the tourist package, but also on transport to enhance competitiveness in our tourism. We know about this aspect of what is happening in other countries such as Portugal, Spain and Italy. Also, relaunch the economy through the review of reduced VAT rates in island regions under the light of a new regional economic development policy. From there on, I agree that it is necessary to change the rules of the Stability Pact. It's a view I've submitted since the first day of the pandemic. But the debate on the changes must take place in rational and realistic terms in order to reach agreement in a European context. The pandemic created new data and led Member States to carry out costs to support the economy. The temporary clause to escape from the Stability Pact rules was inevitable. Mr President, we should also see other changes. For example, the costs of strengthening public health infrastructures during the pandemic period could not be taken into account in the deficit. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has tried and the Qualifications are tabling proposals and we respect it. However, the fact that all of this creates a trust fund for the Greek citizen two years after the elections and the Prime Minister is totally accepted by them shows the way, that in this context we are discussing this bill must be passed. It is an opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to make an act of our commitment to citizens' credibility for the next day. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr. Consola. Mr. Konstantinos Zachariadis has the floor now by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, which is elected to the B1' North Athens Sector. Mr. Loverdos will be followed by the New Democracy, Mr. Kokkalis from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and then Mr. Bougas. Mr. Zachariadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to send back the message from this Step: 'Get in, it is an act of responsibility, it is an act of solidarity, it is an act of individual and social responsibility'. And of course for the government, prepare yourself. Prepare for autumn from now. Autumn won't be long. In ninety days, we'll have October. How are schools going to open in September 2021? Like September 2019? With the Delta mutation hijacking? Is there a plan from the government? What about the hospitals? Are you ready for any turbulence or will you be surprised again, as happened in the second and third waves? What about non-COVID patients who have been afflicted for over a year and a half to make a difference between the public and the private sectors? What about public transport? Here they went and took buses without air - condition. Didn't they figure it'd be summer? Every summer he has, didn't he know he'd have it this year? Vaccination of disabled and elderly people who cannot be moved. A debate that started in January, then went to March and then went to May and now, he says, will begin early in July. That's a big success, that's good! We are in a country where the government has been going from sucess story to sucess story for two years, and yet the country is stagnating and sinking. How's that thing? But with communication, there's no other way. In the economy, Mr Stakoura, you said 'type V' fall and recovery. In 2020, a large fall, 2021 large recovery. What happened? Three since the end of 2020, minus 8.2. And now forecast for recovery 3.6 in 2021. This is not exactly 'V'. And you were the one who brought the prediction of 4.9% recession in December 2020 and you now say about the table. You ask us to change that you say 1.5% less than what you brought in December, the others say better, and it's our fault. What's our fault, Mr. Stakoura? Decide what you want to suggest in December, what you suggest in July, where the country is located and where it will go, because you are always going from failure to failure. Now you're talking about 2021 6.1 percent growth. Where do you support it? In the 'Delta' mutation? In the Georgian Declarations, "if the pandemic comes in winter we're done financially, is there no more money?" You, Mr Staikoura, told the Ministerial Council that unemployment will drop five points, a stunning increase will be recorded in investments, while the recession will be over. What's really going on? Can the government convince us? Is the economy flying or is there no money? Is the recession over or are we in crisis? Is unemployment reduced or do the business enclosures go into business and the country's commercial roads refill with “COMPANY” and “COMPANY”? Now we're going to the medium term. Newspaper Tuesday, June 29th, 2021, at the side: "Elevations of 3% to 15% in electricity". Additional increases, Minister, from those we had in July and August 2019 which were 10% median. Architect of this great success? Mr. Hatzidakis, the Superman of the Government. He said on September 16, 2020, at a “ECONOMIST” conference, “Let's go to complete liberalisation of the energy market to bring prices down”. And what happened? Increases have been made, Mr. Stakoura. Good for Superman, Mr. Hatzidakis! Bravo to the final, Mr. Mitsotakis! If we had a serious debate in Parliament and in the public speech in the country, all the newspapers tomorrow and all the channels as super underneath should have had a caption: 'Hatzidakis the unreliable'. This is what we pay, Mr. Hatzidakis' idea, 20% increase in electricity in a year and a half, you who love the middle class, Mr. Stakoura. And that's why I'm talking. You are saying 'I read this report'. What's the other guy paying for every month in his household? CITYGROUP's report? Alpha Bank's report? The report by the European Commission? Your report? Can I get you a hundred reports on both your days and our days that fell out? The other pays the electricity of PPC and pays it 20% more with the responsibility of the unreliable Mr. Hatzidakis and the unreliable Mr. Mitsotakis. You're a member of the government too. And you also bring the privatisation of the external network of the EMCDDA so that it does not only pay more expensive electricity, pay water. But what if, Mr Stakoura, Mr Hatzidakis does the same in insurance? I saw a few headlines today, I read "NAYTTERIC". He says: 'The transfer cost my generation will be called upon to pay is EUR 78 billion'. And who gives you the right to charge public debt with 78 billion over the next few years? These 78 billion are measures, it is financial adjustment, it is the Greek people's money. Have you discussed these things with the institutions, with the troika? Have they been approved? Do they agree to such a burden? Of course, there is an impunity for the managers. In the past, we had the structured bonds and the "Spirit Welfare" that have dealt with justice. Now from before you bring the impulse, we're done. To know what the young people of the eighteen, twenty-five and thirty years are planning to give them 150 euros, that he will also pay the personal money if he has sufficient income and is not unemployed, and 78 billion through his taxes. And where's that money going? Of course to foreign investment groups, Mr. Stakoura. Measures in Greece, taxes in Greece, liquidity in foreign companies. Who's winning? The middlemen. Where? From the commission. It's all about them, Mr. Stakoura. That's the order for them. Mr. Hatzidakis made the previous bill with the unpaid ten-hours, ordering other interests, ordering them now. Of course Immunity. And you say 'for future generations to retire'. You, Mr. Brutsi, did not come to Parliament and gave us a report on the sustainability of the insurance system in 2020? Didn't you testify? Do you remember who signed this proportionate study? The Economic University of Athens, ASOE. Who signed it? Mr Tsakloglu, the current Minister signed it, that there is sufficient supplementary pensions. And now you're coming and you're changing the entire insurance policy and you're charging the budget with 78 billion. If this is not a political fraud, if this undermines the interests of the middle class and the world of work, then what is it? And since we are also entering the debate on European and international, Mr Minister, the candidate CDU, the German Right for Chancellorship, Mr Lasset, said to the "FINANCIAL TIMES" that, after the pandemic, there will be a return to fiscal orthodoxy and never again debt-sharing. He cried out of his joy by Wolfgang Shoeble. I have not heard any express statement of disapproval from the Greek Prime Minister, by the Minister of Finance, by the Greek Commissioner. I can't help it. We're saying we're going to memorials the next day, no one's talking. Who spoke? Only the Italian Prime Minister, Mr Draghi, former Governor of the European Central Bank, spoke. He said: "I am sure that the successful implementation of the European Recovery Fund will result in certain components of debt-sharing being permanently merged." Do you have a seat, Mr. Stakoura? Are you going to make alliances? Are you going to say things in the European People's Party that are happy to get 40% in the last elections -39.5% - and they also have you as a model? Will you talk or will Europe and the South and the country from debt crisis, bank crisis, private debt crisis, social crisis in the coming years? These are major issues that we need to draw conclusions. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u212	You're welcome. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u213	My colleague said a lot. He talked about fraud. He's confused the fraudsters. His specialty, after all, delusional. He talked about memos the next day. They specialize in the memoranda suddenly in the summer, but he said three - four specific topics. He said we fell out in the remission in 2020. Let me remind you - and we have tabled this in the Minutes - that the leader of the Group's parliamentary group before the second lockdown was talking about 12% recession in 2020. Who fell out? He was talking about a 'V-type recovery' when I put in the Minutes the statement made by Commissioner Jedilloni that all Europe fell out in 'V' because of the second lockdown. He talked about our country's estimates for 2022, when the European Commission claims that 2022 will have 6%. I assume you are in association with the European Commission. One more thing. He said we were finally talking about what the citizen would see in his pocket. Well, in two years' time he has seen a very clear improvement in his available income, the citizen and the middle class from this government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u214	I said for PPC. You heard me, Minister, and you kept notes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u215	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u216	I didn't interrupt you. The U.S.H.A. who pays for the last two years is down by 22%.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u217	For PPC, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u218	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u219	The income tax paid by the citizen, the lowest income blocks, is from 22% to 9%. The citizen, the small business in Peristeri, has a tax on business profits at 22% of 28%.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u220	I said about PPC, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u221	The tax advance on natural persons engaged in business from 100% is 55% permanent. The tax advance for the small business is from 100% to 80%. Insurance contributions are reduced, so the worker, the middle class, finds an increase in earnings on a monthly basis. The abolition of the solidarity levy in 2021 and 2022 are available resources in each citizen's wallet. So talk with evidence and don't be airborne!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u222	Mr Yiannis Loverdos has the floor from New Democracy. Elected in the 2nd West Athens Sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u223	Thank you very much, Mr President. I was saying the other day in the health ministry's bill that the pandemic is not being offered for opposition. There are issues where we can unfold our different ideological concepts and one of them is today's theme for the bill that we are discussing. Other opinions are given by us on how we should go financially, other opinions are expressed by Opposition, and they are perfectly legitimate. However, I am pleased that Mr Zachariadis is succeeding in Stepma, because Mr Zachariadis has called on all Greeks to be vaccinated. I wish, Mr Zachariadis, that all the Greeks and all the fans of your party and all the members of your party listen and agree with your view, because I fear that it is not the same, united throughout SYRIZA, unfortunately. In economic terms, of course, as Mr Zachariadis said, there are many differences. He said, for example, about the cost of energy. I would like to reply here because Mr Hatzidakis is not present and why he was attacked and I think he is very hard to tell him that he is wrong. Mr. Hatzidakis had said this before the pandemic broke out. We forget that it has been twenty months in a very hard pandemic that has cost the world economy too much. The world economy, for the first time in many years, has been in recession worldwide for twenty months. Don't forget that. And let us not forget that transport costs and all goods have increased too much. So you can't compare oranges to tomatoes. Before the pandemic, yes, it would reduce the cost of energy. But when energy costs occur, how will the electricity price be reduced? This will happen when we return to normality and when we are actually coming back to a real situation in the economy. The same applies to the question you raised, Mr Zachariadis, about what will happen from now on. You said that there was supposedly a disagreement between Adonni Georgiadis and Christos Stakoura or the government whether there would be growth or not. Mr. Georgiadis what did he say? He said the self-evident thing. If a disaster comes, of course, we can no longer maintain a lockdown and no longer a closed economy. The closed economy has cost 41 billion billion twenty months now. It's a huge amount, but because there was a pandemic. If a disaster occurs earlier - and that is why we call for all Greeks to be vaccinated - no one knows what will happen, not just in Greece, worldwide. But if things return as we appreciate with the end of pandemic in normality, then, yes, the country will enter strong recovery and strong growth. Maybe a lot of people don't know the finances. I always believe that Marxists and economy are opposite concepts, but anyway, everyone has a perception of it, is tested by the Greek people and decides. Previously, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, my dear colleague from the KKE, said: "For whom is this medium-term programme. Is it for the people, workers or business interests?' Development is for all Greeks. This is our main disagreement with the Left. Mrs. Fotio wants benefits. We want growth and jobs. It's a different concept. Obviously, it is a different concept of the economy and how we approach reality. We believe that the unemployed today in Peristeri, as Mr Stagioras mentioned earlier, and it is my constituency, is in need of work. He doesn't want us to know other benefits. I personally do not hide you that I am very annoyed, like every human being, that for twenty months the private economy basically lives from the public. That's not normal. It was an emergency because of the pandemic. They couldn't do any different. All countries in the world did the same, even the pioneering of capitalism in the United States. But that will stop. When it stops, we'll get back to normality. And what does normality mean? It means jobs, growth, it means moving forward. Mr. Zachariadis said one more thing. He said we had a great deal of recession during the pandemic period. Yes, we had a recession during the pandemic period. And it would be even more reasonable. Consider what was most affected during this twenty-month period. Tourism and focus have been affected, i.e. the very - well or badly - private economy in Greece. And they were disproportionately affected. That is why it is not possible to have the same recession as a large industrial country. It's common sense, which I'm afraid you're not using. That's what we're trying to change as a government of the New Democracy and Mr. Mitsotakis. We are trying to change the structure of the economy, to make reforms so that it becomes a modern European economy and the Greek one. And, of course, when we cross the pandemic - and I hope very soon - then, yes, we will be orbiting great growth. It can be shown that the medium - term forecasts are too small. It can be shown that we will have even greater growth rates. We're still hesitant because you can't be 100% sure in an uncertain environment. But when the reforms go through, when the changes are made, when we give the incentives with tax relief, the reductions in insurance that will enable the worker and, above all, the businessman to create, function, then I am sure and we are all sure that the economy will be evacuated and that will be done by 2025, which includes the medium-term programme and even afterwards. Because we've been over the past. Now we're in the present and in the future. The future is well-defined and this is reflected in the medium-term programme. The past I hope that we will finally leave it behind and not come back, no matter what the left and SYRIZA is reasonable, where the state of state has for years kept the Greek economy locked in the past, the cache and the misery. This is over for us and beyond what will come out will judge this Greek people again in 2023. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr Loverdos, for keeping time. Mr. Vassilis Kokakis is called in Stepma by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u225	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, since you have referred to my country, you will allow me to make a comment on the earthquakes. Mr President, three and a half months have passed and they have received about 70 minutes of the euro. So much is 600 euros with the days from 3 March to today: Seventy cents of the euro. This is the rule of law, this is the welfare state and the great announcements of the government and of the Ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, from individual responsibility, we have passed the responsibility of the shopkeeper. Uncertainty and insecurity are the feelings which perpetuate our fellow citizens, which are exacerbated and raised by government policy. One day one minister comes out and threatens "embolism or bankruptcy", the other the Minister disguises him and the third Minister says a middle-level solution, such as today Mr. Skeylakakis, who said that if the vaccine is present, there is no need for quarantine. At last, ladies and gentlemen of the government, get serious and don't throw the ball in the opposition. The thought is cultivated, not repurchased. Let's get this straight. We are evidently in favour of it also means, in practice, the vaccination of the population, but from there on, the word that you need and you do not have in your vocabulary is persuading. With regard to the medium-term, why don't we vote for the medium-term? Economic theories are nice and useful, but people are demanding, in my view, more concrete things. Why not vote for the medium-term? Because there are two key elements not only from the medium-term, but also from the entire government's economic policy, which are crucial for the next day after the pandemic. In our country, which is the third most indebted country and the first in Europe, there is no word 'dealing with liquidity' and, secondly, there is no word in the words 'dealing with the pandemic'. Mr Staikoras said, Mr Minister, some tax relief arrangements. No one disputes that these tax evasions are not in a positive direction. Let's get this straight. However, it presupposes - and I make a reasonable thought - to save someone's taxes means he's got profits. When business was closed, what are we talking about? The policy must therefore be designed for the next day to keep business on their feet. I shall use words and expressions of representatives of the Chambers, such as Mr Michalos, Mr Kavatha. We have eight hundred forty thousand businesses, and of these eight hundred forty thousand, I say, without reservation, correct me, Minister - access to lending has only fifteen to twenty-five thousand large. Access to borrowing - grant - grant to state guarantee has a hundred thousand. So a large percentage stays outside. 60% of the business loans in our country are rejected. At the meeting Mr Stakoras - he is not here the day before yesterday with the bank representatives - this was confirmed. So we have a liquidity issue? Yeah. Is it important? Very important. Is the Middle-term solved? Oh, no. That is why you as a government must be placed and say that banks must become part of the solution and not say that there are obstacles. Banks must understand, Minister, that their long-term survival and profitability depend on the investment in capital for the reorganisation of the Greek economy. Therefore, for liquidity not only the long term, which is a text of estimates and infinite forecasts, but neither is your general economic policy doing anything specific. A key reason, therefore, why we do not vote on it and I honestly will expect to hear a counterpart that 'yes, in liquidity, we are driving and implementing different interventions'. The second concept lacking in the medium term is the favourable settlement of debts with pandemic. A walk in our neighborhood each one of us will find out whether he speaks with a tavern owner, either with a manabic or a barberry that most of us do not know if he will be open in the next few months. At least that's what I collect. Those who see us and listen to us will confirm me or not. Therefore, a holistic plan for supporting small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is needed, but there is no, Minister. And I'm ending with the primary sector. It is reported that the primary sector is resilient, that it has endured. So, after he endured, there's no reason to support him. Throughout Greece and especially in Larissa and Thessaly, farmers are rightly complaining about compensation from the frost. Where is the additional support with the de minimis fund. Go ahead with the introduction of agricultural oil, Minister. You know that very well. It's time. You said you've done tax evasion. The most important relief for the producer whether he is a farmer, a farmer or a fisherman is the introduction of agricultural oil. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u226	Be well, Mr. Red. Let's go somewhere else now, Mr. Constantine Buba. Larissa is warm because she's closer to the sun, Mr. Skourlet. You should know that. And when you look at the sun, the shadows disappear. At some point the Undersecretary will also speak, the commemorator yesterday, Mr. Apostolos Vesiropoulos, and Mr. Kokkalis may be answered. Mr. Booba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u227	Thank you very much, Mr President, and here the government's masters from the Ministry and colleagues. Yes, of course, but now from the place of Serres to cross the sea, Mr. Mitsotakis managed to make Greece strange cantons, feuds, as we have Rhineland, Westphalia. So from Serres and the grounds for the youth now going to Tuzla, Kariani, Ophreno, which belongs to the Kavala Prefecture, which also says the people, the certificate of vaccination. We used to have some social care certificates. Now we're going to have the invasive mind. To go from Serres to Cyclades a couple with bus the cheapest rapid test is 20 euros. 20 and 20 are 40. He'll join the ship and pay another 40 to go to the Cyclades and 40 to do 80 more and 80 more back 160. We've taken off the youth cut since we're talking about the medium term. We're going back to this. Now nice words, 'Medium-term Financial Strategy Framework 2022-2025'. What is it? It is a three-year-old economic term that the government is trying to see on the basis of its own costs by drawing up a budget for what it will cost, how it will manage GDP, how it will manage inflation, how it will manage deficits and how it will manage unemployment and purchasing power that the public will have. Listen a little. And I'm confused with numbers. Where the numbers prosper, people suffer. The numbers have their magic. Democritus said: “Look at the user in time and at the expense.” It's a good thing, it's a good thing, but it's an expense. The Greek people must know today where the government is going to spend. Will it spend on new forms of work that will give him a satisfactory wage? How will he do that? With the new employment in breach of Article 59, Article 65, which by workers and lawyers said the agreement is arbitrary as the worker is from the point of view of the impossible? With the elastic working hours, will people find the good partition? By abolishing the eighth that is the burning, sweat and blood for over a century? So what investments do we have? We are going to have "LARCO" investments that we are closing the lignite but are leaving the mines in Serbia and Kozani because it suits us if FENI takes them to town, because cobalt is a raw material for electricity, which our President Kyriakos Velopoulos has often mentioned on this? There do the LARCO mines not contaminate the environment in their good part and FENI the company or the Dutch, the UNICO, why is it involved behind this story? That's where those people who work forty miles are going to have their backs. It's gonna be 300 euros a month. So which PPC? When PPC became four hundred scattered companies in 1950, we had in Greece with the ultimate aim of getting them by the Public Power Corporation to keep consumers from paying the electricity. Because then we paid it three times above Europe's figures. And today President of the Greek Solution showed that electricity is being made more expensive. You know the pun, it's: "PCPC = we don't have electric and OTE = we don't have a phone!" But we have tourism! I'm playing the pun to see that the current is going to pay for it. This was the ultimate purpose of PPC, which since 1886 private companies have come to - if I remember correctly - remained a private person in Patras. That's what PPC became. And what's the investment today? The "ELDORANTO" behind the "ALAMOS GOLD"? Will "ELDORANTO" give jobs? Ask the Municipality of Chanakkale in Turkey. To ask Romania what destruction it has brought to Baya Mare, who is still in the Romanian courts, why it is doing'strong through the engagement' with the subsidiary 'GABRIEL' and 'ALAMOS GOLD'. Are these investments or should we go to what the Greek Solution tells you in the Greek, who in the invitation of interest who were behind the "LAMDA"? Was it the Chinese company involved in the FOLLI FOLLIE scandal and has 17% or the Arab ‘AL MABAR’ that made a skyscraper in Libya and mid-2013 left it and left? Are these the investments to vision the youth to return to the country? Because now I am trying to play with numbers and I see that the figures are not coming out of the data I have received from the "Financial Poster". For natural persons this year, the government expects to put EUR 9.558 billion into the budget. which in 2025 will be launched at EUR 12,627 billion. Of ECU 13,023 billion households, in 2025 income taxes will go to EUR 19.6 billion. The euro. Unless you're questioning the elements of economists. What are these, gentlemen of the government, and Mr. Stakoura, where are you a financial professor? Isn't it taxation? That is to say to the Greeks today in the eyes, 'we will tax you'. I remember Reagan saying: "What we are taxing. What continues to move, we legislate in a legislative framework and what stops moving, we subsidize it." That's what we're going to do. It's what another big economist says, that to upgrade a country's economy, the state has to hire two workers, one open holes and the other shut them down. We're doing a hole in the water today. We're opening a hole, closing a hole. What are the investments in Greece? PPC's privatisation? Is that FRAPORT? Is the "LARCO" that we sell for the cobalt or the Greek with the skyscrapers and I don't know which companies they're hiding? Is that how we're going to give jobs? In the field of education, health and small and medium-sized enterprises, have you taken a plan to say clearly whether these will be subsidized in order to be able to move backwards? Now what can we talk about the ESDP? The national strategic development framework speaks of agri-foodstuffs. We shout through our program: Take advantage of the primary sector in aromatic healing plants! Mr. Kachrimanis has already proceeded with the flower of Darwin, listening to Kyriakos Velopoulos and the Greek Solution - and good! - and test it from Metsovo brought it to the Ioannina Valley. Why am I saying that? The NRP gentlemen, with a view to the Horizon Europe programme, is subsidising agri-foodstuffs. Have we made an action plan for the NSRF since the NSRF manages through the medium term? We didn't do anything. The way we got it, we got it. The road's closed. Again, will the studies be mature so that we can go to the organisation, the primary sector and the agri-food sector to absorb the money? Now for the photovoltaics, do you remember in 2013, gentlemen, and when you were a government that told young farmers to make photovoltaic parks, why would the kilowatts be subsidized for 45 minutes from the European Union? And the big companies came in and made the big photovoltaic parks, the new farmers took the loans up to about five grand each on average, but the PPC network filled up and could not be integrated after the farmers had the small ones to become an entrepreneur of photovoltaic parks. Or that we destroy the landscape architecture that the other one comes to take a sunset photo - why is it tourism, this is the pleasure of tourism - and will see wind turbines everywhere? If you think this is an investment in the lignite that will create unemployed, what can I say? I'm not saying we're going gradually. Do Poland today or Germany have lignite production? Or did Mr Hatzidakis tell us that we illegally financed LARCO when there is - and I repeat, once again - the 2015 Vienna Declaration, which enables us to finance LARCO and all the LARCOs, which produces an ore that is wanted in Europe? We have to tell the Greeks to think about them. I'm downloading evidence and the Greek Solution is presumed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u228	Finish, Mr. Booba.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u229	How bad is the bag? That's what I want to see. Do not be afraid of you defending yourself and saying a vaccination certificate. Bring it all three hundred Leonidas, who are talking about, and show it that I gentlemen have done the vaccine because I believe it. See the company, because I believe in the vaccine, not other words to be loved. Say, do the vaccine and don't have to, because we're supposed to be scared, we have allergies as Burla said. "Let others do it, I will do it afterward, young people need it," said PFIZER spokesman. Today we have the budget and the money for children to entice them with 150 euros and to share the country in cantons. To pass through one county to the other county, you'll show a social vaccination certificate. Is that what we're building up in youth with the 150 euros as bribery, so we can tell them to take 150 euros to get a vaccine, so that we're not the older people we're responsible for today's mess of youth? We need to consider our responsibilities, what a generation we deliver. And today the Greek people want to know, will you tax him, so they can get out of numbers or not? Tell him the truth. Because taxes are coming. There was a big philosopher who said that when you mow the sheep, and when you put taxes, take care not to stumble, not to eat the skin. That's how we have to do it. Taxation is not solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u230	Thank you very much, Mr Buba. Before Mr. Spanakis comes to Stepma, two ladies will be led by Ms. Maria Apatzides from Mera25, who is called at Step and then Mrs. Rallia Christidou from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and then Mr. Spanakis will be Mr. Skourletis. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u231	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, those of you who are here, namely, in this Chamber, would firstly be useful in the debate to be honest and to say exactly what'mid-term' means. The medium-term financial strategy framework of the four-year period 2022-2025 is essentially a roadmap for the implementation of creditors' requirements. So we must pretend that debt is sustainable and serve it through the primary surpluses, which mean that the vicious circle between recession and austerity will perpetuate. And it is absolutely inappropriate to celebrate, as the government celebrates, things that are due to the pandemic of the coronary pandemic, because no obligation of ours has really been destroyed. A temporary suspension we see. Not even a long-term relaxation. To work, however, the story of new optimism needs two things: on the one hand cooking for the past and on the other hand wishing for the future. Let's first see the cooking of the past. The pandemic has served as the last alibi to justify any failure and all the suffering of the government. In other words, there is a record that the Greek economy was preparing to launch in 2020, but this was not possible because of the coronary. Except the data don't confirm this godly desire. Greece's GDP in the fourth quarter of 2019 decreased by 0.7% compared to the third quarter of 2019 according to ELSTAT. The degressive course has already begun since the end of 2019 that New Democracy took over. In fact, the Greek economy has entered a stagnation already by the SYRIZA Government and in recession since 2019, at least half a year before the first lockdown. Then the causes of economic maliciousness must be sought elsewhere and not in the government's pandemic of the coronary. Of course, no matter how much the reality is made up of some elements, they just don't hide. The mid-term report can only admit the demolition of Greece in 2020 and that the public debt ratio to GDP has been launched. Afterwards, the government is fascinating that Greece is borrowing at low interest rates from international markets. But that is not because someone suddenly trusts the Greek economy. The cause is the juncture of the krone which has led to the wider policy of repo of the European Central Bank. But this policy in the long term marks an environment of deflation and a great recession, i.e. cruel austerity, for which no one should celebrate, let alone when you are government. Apart from cooking, however, we have the wish. In other words, there is provision for an increase in GDP of 3.6%. This pious desire is based on the calculation that 15 million tourists will come. But come to me that the Association of Greek Tourism Enterprises and the Hotel Chamber of Deputies disguises it! We have this "Delta" mutation, as it is said, which causes concern for the future and fluid setting and the level of vaccination is only about 35%, that is, half of the 70% that is necessary to have the immunity wall to save Greek tourism. This anticipation that the Prime Minister himself had cultivated in February 2020 is disastrous. To save this summer for Greek tourism we had to have reached 70% of the vaccinations in June. The rulers knew, but they didn't. Now, unfortunately, it's too late. And of course, the primary deficits are now allowed because of the coronary such as -7.1% for 2021. But the arrogant demand for primary surpluses only rests back towards glory! In 2025 there are 3.7% primary surplus, worse than 3.5% of SYRIZA. This policy is in line with an unprecedented sale of public property and public goods. It is estimated that the privatisations will be launched in 2022 by competitions that have already begun or are expected to take place in accordance with the programs of TEAD, for example Egnatia Street, Attica Street, Athens International Airport, ELPE, Marines, Department of Commerce, Infrastructures, PPC, PPC, HEADAP, underground storage of southern Kavala. What does the arrogant demand for primary surpluses mean practically? We must always remember that primary government surpluses mean a private sector deficit, i.e. unbearable taxation, cuts for workers, inability for the state to fulfil its basic tasks, such as hospital maintenance, for example. It means that they will no longer be able to be recruited for primary health care, but there will be a constant climate of uncertainty where the state will once again beg the charity of Mr. Niarchor, Mr. Latsis, etc. in order to meet his constitutional obligations. It means that everything will be sacrificed for a Minotaur, namely the service of a non-viable debt, which will always set our country down in recession and stagnation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u232	Thank you for the time too, Mrs. Apajidis. Mrs. Apatzidis is elected Eastern Attica with the 25th. Mrs Rallia Christidou has the floor now by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Elected in the Second South Athens Sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President. The submission of the medium-term financial planning is a process which concerns all the countries of the European Union and should be an opportunity for a substantial debate on the next day of the Greek economy. Instead of presenting a strategy on the part of the government for the next few years, however, a voyage based on completely unfounded forecasts is being tabled here in Parliament. Of course, we are not surprised at this sloppiness, we have seen too many samples of writing in the two years that you are unfortunately ruling the country. Your supposed success is exhausted in communications without a representative in the media and in recurring in Parliament, where every two months you bring new laws, new measures to somehow correct the consequences of previous bills. A characteristic example of the 2021 financial budget that the Minister reviewed before drying the ink. Nevertheless, your basic ideas are reflected in even this design clutch. They are taken first - first by what is missing. What's missing? The workers are absent, but your once very loved middle class is missing every measure of support for small entrepreneurship. The collaborative, solidarity economy, which abroad is a pillar of national economies, for you is a unknown planet. The social state only treats it as an exit and you do not understand the major supportive role it has in development. Education, culture, health: If you could sell everything out, you'd already do it tomorrow. For the time being, you are considering the medium-term revenues from a privatization programme that you are planning to make more than EUR 1 billion over the next three years. What you mean by that was shown by the prefectures in the House with the amendment that you secretly brought in a few days ago about water. You do not understand the landscape created in the Greek economy after the pandemic. Incompetent, naive, obsessed? However, it certainly seems that you do not understand. You plan - supposedly planning - by assuming that the pandemic is over. But experts warn that restrictions should continue for some time yet, but you, with unjustified oversimplification, predict that citizens will have money and will even run and consume contributions through indirect taxes on the public fund. The workers, with the bill you voted on a few days ago here in the House, have thrown them underpaid and defenseless to the employer's arbitrariness. Workers without collective agreements. In Greece only 16% of contracts are collective, when in the European Union the rate of collective agreements exceeds 60%. In Europe, you are saying that you belong as a party. Are these employees going to consume and increase the revenues of the Treasury with their VAT? Did the public funds fill with the day off? 'Cause you promised me the rest of them. Of course, neither will they take the day off, nor will they have the strength to consume after 10 hours of work and unpaid overtime. And all this, of course, while all the basic goods' prices go up. Now let's go to the small and medium-sized ones. You seem to be ignorant or pretending to ignore that small businesses are coming out of the pandemic crisis damaged due to lack of support from forward measures. Over the past period you have given degrading pockets to young people and young people, but no incentive to support small and medium-sized entrepreneurship to cope with unemployment. The opposition, which you systematically ignore, and the market in which you are supposed to swear, have been calling for months for measures, but you in the medium term are cutting off any support and are not interested in what debts you are in, with what lack of liquidity people who are supposedly normal and with nails and teeth are trying to keep their shops open. You state that the market will regulate itself. Yes, sir. A self-regulation that everywhere, wherever it has been tested, has only worked in favour of the most powerful. And even the most conservative economists admit that, but the interests you serve, ladies and gentlemen of the government, do not let you hear that. You don't even listen to them. So you have no provision for what will happen with accumulated debt, with the difficulties of liquidity for households, for businesses. Nothing, no plan. No plan to relaunch the economy, only wishfulness. On the contrary, you are preparing to dismantle the insurance, handing it over to private companies that will gamble fruit with profits and loading damage on the backs of society. It is, of course, unacceptable in the medium term that there should be no reference, but no reference to insurance costs and absolutely no provision for transport costs. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA - because you often speak to us here about the past - and Alexis Tsipras, without a Recovery Fund, but in a large regime of huge extortion, which you know them very well from the foreigners, with great sacrifices of Greek society, saved the country from bankruptcy, shared social dividends, increased the minimum wage, abolished the indemnity of the underpaid wage. He defended working rights with all his powers. He left you a 37 billion euros financial security pillow for the first time in Greek history. It achieved eleven consecutive quarters of growth after many years of recession. Decrease unemployment. He didn't just promise all this, he did it. In our programme we commit ourselves to the minimum wage and to an increase of EUR 800, to the gradual introduction of three-and-a-half hours without a reduction in wages in order to open up new jobs. What are you doing? Repeat the failed model, which before 2015 was what brought the economic crisis to this country. You insist on tourism when it proved how precarious such a one-dimensional development is. You say that there will be a rapid increase in investment by 30% when the European Union anticipates an increase in investment of 5%. You claim that Greece is among the Member States with the highest performance in the use of European funds. In fact, the majority of small and medium-sized enterprises have not so far received aid from European programmes, while many small and medium-sized enterprises have been left out even of the permitted advances. And what are you staying at? You remain the oldest right, the one that has always supported only the state-owned entrepreneurship. This right that never changes, only her friends look, all the others on the outside. These are the real elements that are carefully silenced in the medium term. On the contrary, you appear with an unjust and furnished optimism that everything will go well. Why so much anxiety that you show a budget plan so outrageously overthrown? Is it because polls warn against increasing social discontent? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. You will not make it, ladies and gentlemen of the government, neither with tables nor with numbers to make fun of many more. Just grow the wrath and you will find very quickly that the grace period that had guaranteed all your lies expired. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mrs. Christidou. Mr. Vassilis - Peter Spanakis from New Democracy is called in Stepma. Elected in the B3' South Athens Sector. As far as I know, you're celebrating at Vasilis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u235	Both. Every semester!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u236	Both? Sweet, you're here empty-handed. Happy birthday to you the other day.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u237	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate aims to adopt the medium-term financial framework for the next four years, namely 2022-2025. After a hard economic crisis, the "first time left" of the SYRIZA government came in the catastrophic half of 2015, because such days, ladies and gentlemen, the then Minister of Finance and today Chief of Party of today's Parliament, together with Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, put the country in a huge catastrophic adventure, a foolish adventure that brought the country little before Grexit. Who will forget the tails at the ATM on the night of 26 June 2015, ladies and gentlemen? Within a weekend they left banks of a billion euros! And of course, who can forget the four years of capital control? And we come to today in a different and more serious crisis. While the country was laying the foundations for substantial recovery, it erupted an unprecedented world pandemic. In these rather difficult circumstances, society, economy, citizens had an ally, the Government of New Democracy and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. All this time no one has been left without support. We have put in place, essentially, reasonable support measures for everyone, and we have adopted measures with a view to the next day, so that the return to normality can find the businesses open, the workers in their positions. And this is reflected in practice. EUR 250 million of the fixed costs for businesses are allocated, EUR 330 million of the working capital for the focus sector, EUR 420 million of the working capital for enterprises in the tourism sector. Reduction of the tax advance for 2021 to 70%, exemption from payment of the special solidarity contribution to the private sector for 2021 and 2022. Five hundred thousand beneficiary freelance professionals, self-employed and small businesses take special-purpose allowances. I only mention few of the support measures that we have taken. Of course, we have not only dealt with the economic aspect, but we have also dealt with the health strand with exemplary success. The successful course of the country in the midst of uncertainty caused by the pandemic is reflected in the confidence that Greece enjoys both from its citizens and from its partners and creditors. The interest rates of Greek bonds are historically low. Greek bonds are the most popular in Europe, writing "BLOOMBERG" a few weeks ago. EUR 30 billion of the Recovery Fund is the sixth largest allocation among the twenty-seven members of the European Union. And we come to the figures that, as they appear in the medium term, where after the justified fall we had in 2020, the country's upward trend is now clear and we are starting, this year, which has again been a difficult year. We have 3.6% GDP growth for 2021, 6.2% for 2022 and 4.4% for 2024. Exports - be careful - in 2021 will increase by 10.4% and will follow 2022 with an increase of 13.8%. Private consumption of 2.6% this year, 2.9% next year. The total revenue from the privatizations is estimated at EUR 541 million in 2021, while the forecast for the following years is EUR 1.2 billion in 2022 to reach EUR 1,14 billion in 2024. Revenue from income tax in 2025 is projected to increase significantly as it is expected to receive EUR 6,57 billion more than in 2021, that is, from EUR 13 billion which is the estimate for this year is projected to rise to EUR 14,5 billion and EUR 2025 to EUR 19,6 billion. Investments that are the main pillar on our country's development agenda are estimated to reach 2025 in 16.7% of GDP compared to 11.1% in 2020. Overall, the primary result is estimated to be 7.1% of GDP for 2022 in a deficit of 0.5%, while from 2023 we have been entering a primary surplus estimated at 2%, 2.8% and 3.7% of GDP for the following three years respectively. It is worth noting that within 2022 Greece emerges from the enhanced supervision regime. Ladies and gentlemen, as the figures show, the Greek economy has endured, endured in many areas and was better off than many European countries. For example, the recession for Greece in 2020 was at 8.2% when, respectively, for other high-tourism countries the first estimate is for Spain at 10.8%, for Italy at 8.9%, for Portugal at 7.6%. The country's good situation in many areas has made a decisive contribution to the government's support for everyone. Measures to support businesses, tourism workers, households and students have worked perfectly. Attributes are the unemployment indicators that improve 2020 by one unit compared with 2019, and this is a result of the targeted policy of the Government of New Democracy. The non-dismissal clause as a condition for the financial support of enterprises, the cover for the social security contributions of workers from the State, the 'COMPANY WORK' programme, the special-purpose allowances for works contracts that were suspended, all these measures were decisive in order to avoid losing jobs. Even in the most unforeseen and difficult circumstances we have shown that Greece can, following good policies, appropriate policies and can withstand Greece, but not only can Greece stand, but Greece is growing, evolving, modernising, because at the wheel of the country is Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the government is New Democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u238	Thank you very much, Mr Spankee. Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and will be followed by Mr. Vartzopoulos, Mr. Mulkiotis and Mr. Amanatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr President. A question is eroded above the Chamber after Mr Spanakis's speech. How can one ask questions about the state of the economy delivered by the SYRIZA government when known what he received from the Samara government? That is now a great deal of courage to claim, because everyone remembers the empty funds, the pensions that could not be paid, the evaluation which had not been closed and the total failure of the programmes at the time. So this is a debate that has taken place and everyone has come to its conclusion. Everyone knows that if today, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you can and do a policy, you owe it to a very large extent on the road that has been opened for four and a half years by SYRIZA's governance. But our point is not Mr Spankis and what he said. The question is that the requirements created by the pandemic, the problems it has brought to the surface, accumulated problems, new problems require a different look to deal with. They are putting the question of the change in the sovereign strategies, at least in the European area and not just. And seeing what the government has presented to us as the medium-term, but also what has already done, and the way in which the plan for the Recovery Fund has been formulated, imagines that it has been written for some time now, that there has been no pandemic. What have you incorporated into your logic from what Greece, humanity, Europe in a dramatic way and is in progress? No one can prejudge what's going to happen. No one knows what will happen with the Delta mutation. So all this as an impact on the economy is embedded? Is there a second, third script more negative? Are there policies targeted to see the new impacts, to respond to what social categories need support, how do the public health system? What am I saying? ‘Public health system’. It's forbidden for you. It seemed pretty fast before the pandemic was over. You went out again and we remembered public-private partnerships. So I think you are hopelessly predictable, hopelessly dogmatic, conservative, old-fashioned and socially discriminatory in favour of the few and the many. There is a relaunching plan for the economy, and those few that you did during the pandemic period, which were in no way enough, you are in a hurry to end it, to end it, even in the middle of threats. By who? From the Minister of Development. In other words, it is incomprehensible that the Minister of Development will say 'we will go bankrupt, we are on the verge of bankruptcy if you are not vaccinated'. We mixed up Larissa with the napkins. It has nothing to do with it, because that is what it is. Villages that you are disciplined in the wrong way, with regard to the crucial issue of vaccination, the necessary vaccination, instead of giving the battle of persuasion with arguments, with wise politics, without contradictions, without communication potatoes, without attempting to extract social categories, without practicing youth in the hundredth and that you have to do so, will drink a lot of beers in your health, but honestly this lesson will be written in history as the most negative message that has ever given an officially elected government on the subject of solidarity, on the subject of public health. You do not serve her with such practices. Other kinds of things you obviously have in mind. So Europe needs different strategies today, when the message from the United States itself comes to overcome Europe's policies, which under the pressure of reality is forced to suspend the Stability Pact, to adopt even timely a different logic for the Recovery Fund. They cannot be a parentheses, an exception to the neoliberal rule. So it needs a change of strategies, but in order to do this, alliances are needed. This debate we have to do. And I am addressing the left-wing and progressive opposition forces in Greece and Europe. It's happening in Europe. This dialogue has been opened. Some forces here seem to be inferior to a self-sufficient criticism of things, but by not trying their proposals and strategy in reality, in social terms, refusing to see things how they have and what needs to be done to change the relationships to defeat neoliberal dogmatism. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of bringing in a medium-term integrated into a more comprehensive design, you have created an umbrella under which the NSRP, the Recovery Fund, the Public Investment Programme, follow a logic of stitching requests or references and reintroducing policies that have already been tested for years, such as your obsession with the privatisation programme. It is a programme that we have been listening to over the past decades. Perhaps there you support this great increase in investment, the investment "boom" you mentioned. It seems to me that such high rates of investment can be anticipated and this can be seen at about two points in the reduction of unemployment. What types of investment are these with such high rates that leave employment and unemployment unaffected? So what you mean is to sell what is interesting today in Greece, the monopolistic energy networks, the water. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. While implementing this obsolete strategy, you have incorporated into your assessments what is happening and has blown up the market in air as a whole, increasing the cost of electricity. There's no precedent. We reached a historic high for Greece at the electricity price. I imagine, Mr Colleague, you, from western Macedonia, can understand that. What do you have to say about that? The target model application and the energy stock exchange would ultimately lead there? Where are all the reasons that liberalisation and competition would reduce electricity prices? Or have certain forms of market manipulation prevailed? Or should the current be treated as any other stock exchange product and should specific limits and supervisory mechanisms have been provided for? The second should have been done, as our design was. But you serve specific business interests. I mean it. Ladies and gentlemen, where is the self-government in this debate? How much did self-government participate in the choices made in the Recovery Fund programme? You received 700 million projects, you replied from the program "Philodimos" and simply transferred them and joined the Recovery Fund. This is the only design. It concerns water supply and sewerage projects in smaller communities which cannot be financed by the NSRP. Where's the regionality? What's the contribution? How will you respond to the internal contradictions that exist? But you're not answering. You are not answering these questions at all. You mentioned red loans and told us that they were falling. Red loans, Minister, as soon as they leave the banks' books and go to the funds and to the managers of red loans, do not mean that they are lifted as a burden on the real economy. So, then, the numbers are good, but sometimes it is the burglar of dramatic reality, of difficult reality, of a reality that makes it even more difficult for the world of work. The results of the Hatzidakis law are seen as evolving these days. We had fires from the Attica Bank the other day. Dozens of stores of the National Bank and Piraeus Bank will be closed. Why? What for? The digital reality, new technologies do not increase productivity? Should we not use them for new jobs without a reduction in wages for less working time?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u240	Finish, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u241	Why in the banking sector are you following this system? Because you want to unbearablely compress the job. So you think you're helping reduce inequality? Do you think that this is the way through the real reduction in the available income you stimulate the market? Because that's the Hatzidakis mechanism that's been in place right now. Oh, no. They will simply close some small and medium-sized enterprises. Some, then, will substitute for some purchases. Others will completely cut them, make them from the Internet cheaper, imported products might be cheaper. At the same time, it is not enough that these mechanisms lead to a restructuring in favour of the few, you are making moves by adopting unreservedly new mall. One example I will mention for Mr Chakaloto, who is close to his neighborhood. Two new malls are about to take place where they already exist on the Kifisia axis. One is the one that will come down from Parnitha and the other to the height of Metamorphosis, to Kifissos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u242	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u243	Five malls at a distance of a few kilometers. There is no other European market. Go on, then, and convince us that you are serving the middle-class and small and medium-sized enterprises as well. I shall end, Mr President, sincerely. I heard Mr Papadimitriou this morning saying that we now have a medium-term we have his own property. I think that his property may not have been owned in the medium term, but you have fully contacted it. You had an ideological and political affinity. Memorandum policies were the extremist expression of a restructuring strategy for neoliberalism. It is your policy and this policy is becoming more and more understandable by the world. As far as all the rest of the money you do, 150 euro cards, measures from here, etc., are you going for elections?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u244	You said you were ending up honestly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u245	I'm done. Bas and shatter what comes that you cannot manage under the weight of your own dead-end choices? You're gonna answer that, I guess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u246	Mr. Dimitrios Vartzopoulos has the floor from New Democracy, elected in the 2nd Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u247	Mr President, Minister, now and then, ladies and gentlemen, ELSTAT's income figures for 2019 show that 19% of the population are threatened with poverty and 30% of the total population are threatened with poverty and social exclusion. There are some other very interesting elements here. 73% of the poor and 42% of the poor, i.e. close to 50% of the population, are unable to meet even the necessary needs of the EUR 400 scale. Watch out. 38% of poor households do not have the possibility of having every other day meat, chicken, fish or vegetables of equal caloric value. 35% of the poor and 17% of the poor do not have sufficient heating in winter. 55% of the poor and 27% of the poor cannot go regularly to the cinema or attend other recreational events. 45% of the total population cannot deal with the instalments of old consumer loans adequately. And all this before the pandemic. How are these dramatic situations now being dealt with, how are these dramatic figures raised? The answer is very simple. It is one: growth. Development serves government policy, which is actively recorded in this medium-term plan. What are her key elements, her key tools? Liberal innovation, liberal structural changes, the reduction of tax rates, privatization, the reduction of insurance contributions, prudent financial management, the reduction of interest rates on external loans, better government debt, the increase in cash, the achievement of investment rates, which will lead to better financing of the banking sector, which, after the reduction of red loans and capital consolidation, will be able to better support the real economy. This will enable us to achieve not only 3.6% this year, but also 6% growth in 2022, 4% in 2023-2024 and 3% stable from 2025 onwards. And above all, to reduce the unemployment that we all know, unfortunately, is about twice the European average. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a very interesting study of the Bank of Greece, which says that the best way to ensure lasting continuous growth in the production base of the economy is structural changes, which may even be responsible for 40% of the annual GDP growth. First of all, they are considered to be the ones that facilitate free access of the population to the labour market. Here are those that help to increase productivity through economies of scale and increase competitiveness by reducing administrative burdens on business. The question is, however, that we need to realise, ladies and gentlemen, that the best way of achieving sustainable, sustainable and sustainable development in the market economy is to create a social state which ensures that families are given access to the labour market, precisely because it provides: firstly, for effective support for vulnerable and vulnerable people, such as through a new single social service, in which we have already legislated, on the basis of the OPEK and arms in the municipalities, which will replace the charitable solidarity of social benefits in kind, social invoices, social piles, social grocery stores, pharmacies, medicine, etc., with an individual guarantee of decent living on the basis of an elementary purchasing power, which will be available to self-supported housing, medical care and re-introspective care. Secondly, it will provide the social state with support for disabled people and chronic sufferers through the creation of a national welfare system for the first time in the country, which will cover all the needs of the disabled, so that family careers can return to jobs and prevent family income from being spent on invisible serious payments, to the known household assistants. And, thirdly, it will provide this social state with the full medical coverage of the whole population without a particular private burden, through the creation of the new National Health System, which will also prevent the spread of family income from private health expenditure, from today's unthinkable 7% in the average European level of 1% -2%. All these objectives, of an absolutely necessary aggressive social policy, are fully applicable and covert financially from the medium to long term that we are discussing today. This is because of the children's financial service. It is not only the increase of the health ministry's expenditure to 4.5 billion on a stable basis, i.e. by 500-600 million a year, it is also the very targeted increase in OPEK's prerogatives by 500 million a year and the Social Security Agency by 200 million a year. Ladies and gentlemen, within the framework of a liberal economy of course, building a social state according to the best European standards for the first time in our history is the one that will enable Greek households to have purchasing power which, even after a generation, will allow us to have a per capita income and a quality of life perfectly similar to the Eurozone. This is the risk of the next few years, and I hope that we all agree on it that it is the most essential of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, too, for keeping time as always. Mr. George Mulkiotis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u249	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Milan Kouder said that optimism is the opium of the people, paraphrasing the Marxist saying that religion is the opium of the people. If nothing else can blame this government for lack of optimism, especially as regards the next day of the Greek economy. With the medium-term 2022-2025, the government seems to be optimistic at all levels. It provides for GDP to return to 217 billion by the end of 2025. Primary surpluses from 2023 to 2.8%, 2025 to another 3.7%. Private investment explosion, the upward trend in export goods, the increase in private consumption, the reduction of unemployment, the rate of which will be between 16.3% in 2020 and 11.1% in 2025. And all that at account level. But, ladies and gentlemen, which, even though reality is a counterweight to optimism, because the 2021 economy may have gone to a positive rate of growth, it is not enough to cover the major losses of the recession in 2020 caused by the pandemic. And the crucial question of economic policy is not when the lost ground will be replaced. It is critical, however, whether the pandemic crisis will have long-term effects on the economy, especially if it has negative medium-term effects on the labour market. At this point I would like to remind you that unemployment has not deviated because employment has increased. It has, however, been reduced because the population outside the labour force is growing. According to the seasonally corrected data of ELSTAT’s labour force survey, the unemployed fell by thirty-two thousand since last March, but also the employees fell by two hundred and seventeen thousand four hundred, returning to the levels at the end of 2016, while the financially inactive increased by two hundred and ten thousand four hundred, returning to the mid-2008 levels. And, of course, in this labour market, the government chose to show its true bourgeoisie, in particular by establishing the tenth hour, the equation of overtime in all branches, the expansion of activities on Sundays. The government has decided that growth is achieved by overemployment of all those who remain on the labour market and not by the employment of more of our fellow citizens. I would remind you here that the head of Parliament's Budget Office in the quarterly report for the first quarter of 2021 warns that good progress following the results of GDP will not be overrated, as economic challenges and uncertainties will be maintained after the end of the pandemic. The bell particularly hits at the risk of developing social inequalities, in the medium term, as some businesses and households will not be able to stand on their feet after the measures have been stopped. The government has thrown quite low reflexes, that is to say, in the way in which the pandemic's economic impact is addressed. He consciously left hundreds of thousands of businesses and professionals and four hundred thousand long-term unemployed. They were completely ignored. Conscientiously, it leaves outside protection members of professional groups such as food workers and tourism. Consciously it freezes the minimum wage, not to mention that it negatively affects growth. The crucial question, therefore, for the next day, when the protection measures taken by the government expire, is what will happen on the job front. In order to achieve, ladies and gentlemen, the average European employment rate before the pandemic, over eight hundred fifty jobs will have to be created in the next few years. Apart from those that will be lost, that is, to have new jobs. This, however, is not enough alone to improve the standard of living of the Greeks. A prerequisite for substantial improvement in the lives of citizens is the new jobs that are created to be more productive and quality in order to lead to good wages and good working conditions. Instead, the government has all its hopes in the recovery and resilience plan, but this is not an integrated Greek recovery proposal. It invests in a project which in fact lacks the objective of changing the economic model and upgrading the production potential of the country. It invests in a project where the projects envisaged are not accompanied by performance indicators for the environment, for growth and, above all, for job creation. It invests in a project lacking the social dividend clause in all projects funded with an obligation to integrate into these employment and vulnerable groups of the population. It invests in a project where there is no provision for strengthening domestic production to support the Greek industry and craft industry. It invests in a project from which every reference is missing to support the Greek small and medium-sized enterprises. There is a deficit in the sustainable turn of the agri-food sector, and investment in research, innovation and extroversion is very small. And it does so because the New Democracy, if anything, does not exist for this government's development with social protection. There is no attitude to tackle inequalities and there is no mood for an economy that ensures quality work. Already, Mr Ministers, the messages from the primary sector in relation to cereal harvest are entirely negative. The yield reaches a lower level and the eighty pounds per acre in the field, while the average appears to be no more than two hundred and fifty pounds. This is happening in many areas of the country, unfortunately, for cereal harvest. Unfortunately, there is a big problem and there is an urgent need for measures to be taken immediately for producers who are now hit by the pandemic and also by the extreme weather. And, of course, Mr Ministers, in these cases and yields in relation to cereals, there will also be a question of adequacy with regard to the agri-food sector. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the opportunity for a new model of sustainable development with social justice is a life bet for Greece and this model should not be lost. The risk is high and we must all assume our responsibilities so that the long and valuable sacrifices of Greek citizens are not wasted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr. Mulkiotis. Mr Georgios Amanatidis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not present the figures and statistics in detail. This was done at the four previous meetings in the committee and the rapporteur analysed them sufficiently. But I will try to outline the general picture at the level of economic and development and, above all, to show that the welfare of numbers, let me have this term, is not an accidental event, but the result of a hard work targeted and coordinated effort by the government. The medium-term programme which we are discussing today marks the safe transition of the Greek economy from the initial recovery, the transition to the pandemic storm and the total return for which efforts are being made in the last few months. The 2021 review, in the most unfavourable terms as regards figures and figures, was a necessary fact, because it is due to the prolongation of the pandemic for the year 2021, which makes it necessary to maintain exceptional budgetary measures and to charge the state budget. For 2021, however, it was heard earlier by the rapporteurs that there was a growth of 3.6%. And as the Minister said, it is one of the most conservative, I would say, forecasts, while in 2022 growth is 6.2%. This means that we will have a cumulative increase in both investment and exports. We hope that the decline in unemployment will be five percentage points and after ten years when we had a fall in gross national product, again during the pandemic period. We hope that Greek GDP will grow by 2021-2022 more, so provided for by every other Eurozone country. About the remaining period of the Medium-term Financial Strategy, we expect an average growth of 4%. In particular, there is provision for an improvement in all indicators, investment, a gradual reduction in general government debt as a percentage of GDP, thus increasing GDP, increasing private consumption, declining unemployment, increasing revenues from privatisation. It is of particular importance, of course, that in 2022 the country will cease, as has been said earlier, to be under reinforced supervision and that in 2023 it will return to primary surpluses. So what does that mean? That it will be able to invest in resources for the benefit of society, social benefits, quality of life, households and businesses. After all, there is no reduction in expenditure in any sector of the economy and society which affects the services provided both quantitatively and qualitatively in the medium term. Where smaller numbers appear, this means that the same result can be achieved by investing fewer resources as the country is progressing rapidly on the issues of digital governance and this is the added value of these actions. Finally, could anyone ask, is the development plan envisaged in the medium-term programme development? I think so, because, as I have said in committee, all the actions envisaged are ultimately aimed at optimising two important things: Firstly, the operating environment of the public administration, including, of course, health and welfare and all the benefits already announced by the Minister. Secondly, there is a clear incentive, a mobilisation of the productive potential of the Greek economy. These are two simultaneous actions supported or supported by one another. We therefore hope that this combination will stimulate employment in the private sector and therefore reduce unemployment. But let me make two points here. First, as regards the national rule of 'one to one' recruitment. I believe that in areas where we see that there is a prospect and we should emphasise, such as health, technological modernisation, the exception from the rule should be considered. Secondly, as far as the planned withdrawals and recruitments are concerned, I would like to see the decentralised bodies supported more in the country as there can be no regional or local development without strong and decentralised bodies. But what did it take to get to this point? Is it accidental to predict an improvement of all macroeconomic indicators? Of course not. It is not what has been said to the committee that we are setting the target and we are trying to find the measures to achieve it. Here's a process from bottom up. We put individual objectives, we intervene in public administration, in technological modernisation, in improving health procedures, in education, in justice, in rural development. These are the components of an effort and we eventually end up with the component of individual objectives, namely in areas that will improve the performance of the state machine, strengthen and make entrepreneurship more competitive and give development strategy. The medium-term programme is therefore not just about figures. The figures are the product of a strategy to which we should invest with resources, knowledge and reform initiatives. As such it can be said, in fact, that the National Recovery and Resilience Plan "Greece 2.0". Greece must also say and stress that it ranks in second place in the use of the current NSRP and in the first place in terms of exploiting the resources of the European Regional Development Fund and the European Social Fund. Greece borrows... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You'll allow me a little, Mr. President. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u252	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u253	Greece is borrowed at a cheap interest rate and the offer is much higher than the demand. The country's classification is improved in the indicators of competitiveness, the reduction of VAT in some areas, on the islands of the eastern Aegean, is permanent. They reduce, as the Minister said, taxes, withholdings and advances on taxes to 80% or 55%, depending on whether they are companies or individual companies. Red loans are reduced. The programme "HERAKLIS" is going very well and is therefore extended eighteen months. Implementation of the Banking Code begins and the turnout of stakeholders appears to be the success of this project. Procedures for the production of public works are simplified. Recruitment law changes and new law recently improves the protection of work. Ladies and gentlemen, all the previous ones I have said show that the design carried out within the framework of the medium-term framework is holistic. It is a design where some sectors support improving the effectiveness of some other sectors. That's how the numbers came up, and I repeat it because it's very important. Now, almost two years have passed since the 2019 elections. The government has strengthened, justified the confidence and expectations of Greek citizens. In a grim environment, in an environment of uncertainty, the government under the guidance of the Prime Minister, loyal to the election commitments, has succeeded - because, indeed, it is about to stand up and face the unfavourable consequences of the crisis. At the same time, it implements its programme, an ambitious reform project in almost all areas. Greece is recovering and the medium-term is confirming this with figures. There is, therefore, a strategy. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of this because this is a first, credible and second, development framework for our country's future. But, because I'm done, let me make a reference to what Mr. Skourletis said earlier showing me. I want to remind him to tell us what he has not done so that PPC can reach the verge of bankruptcy. I would also like to stress that we can no longer use a backdrop, to emphasise how we should go in the future. I think that we should all be better and I address this suggestion to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr. Amanatidis. When for the first time you ask for two - three minutes, I do it through my heart. Mr. Amanatidis has never asked for anything, Mr. Famele. Those who have this system make me sad, Mr. Famele. Now Mr. Famelos will show us how they apply the seven-minute, wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u255	Along with Mr. Amanatidis' questions, nine minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u256	Oh, there they are! Start the deal! I don't accept in the medium term! Mr Socrates Famelos from the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Elected in 2nd Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, the medium term is practically our budget by 2025. It reflects not only the budgets, of course, but also the entire development framework, the functioning of the market, but also the social state. It is therefore a very serious debate to be held - and let me say - without consulting the institutions, almost as if the government had wished to do so secretly and quickly, without having a strategy and without assessing the macroeconomic and development parameters to be taken into account. I would make a criticism that the long-term pension is very short and that it leaves much for the next few days, even the debate with the European institutions, but it is not wrong. It's not incompetent, Mr. Minister. It's your choice to be clipboard. What is clear from the government's proposal? First of all, it repeats the mistakes he made in the budget and you are exposed to these mistakes. You did not, for example, put money to support the economy in 2021 and we see how much it took. You're not putting resources back in 2022. You are making a fantastic prediction of investment, of revenue, of unemployment for four years and, indeed, of budgetary parameters for the next period. But it is very dangerous to make creative accounts with uncertainties and, on the other hand, to bind us with certainty. On the other hand, you remove all the reductions that the market has due to COVID, VAT, solidarity levy, insurance contributions, tax advances, municipal fees. On the other hand, you plan to increase tax revenues. In particular, income income from personal income taxes increases 46%. Enterprise income income increases 145%. So who pays the burdens? You are transferring everything to small and medium-sized enterprises, to the Greek market and to work. On the other hand, public salaries and functions are not increased on the basis of increased revenues. They remain stable, and even with sub-absorption and deflation, they are falling. You are asking us not to be vigilant about your forecasts. But you're the ones who owe us. Did you not fall out in the calculation of GDP and in 2020 and 2021, in public revenue, in expenditure, in the results of the TA? All in the budget has been disproved. Let's just say it. You remind us of the creative accounting of the first years of the memoranda, the route to the austerity and the restrictive measures of the high surpluses. In practice, you represent the route for a bankrupt state, although you have received surpluses, but a state at the same time can get a good assessment from the houses and from the banks, but it has proved inadequate. You went bankrupt and again you follow the same route, with many heavy burdens on the market and work, because you are also inadequate as a party. Haven't you gotten messages from the pandemic? You don't understand that pandemic told us we need a powerful state? You, instead of strengthening Greece, weaken it and at the same time sell it out. We have a medium-term programme without strategy. You have a plan, of course, of the normalization of the ruffles of Mr Mitsotakis, of the best friends, of what you used to call 'pimps'. Now you're helping them. We do not, however, have, as a country, a plan linking the Recovery Fund, linking the NSRF, the Rural Development Programme, public investment with the necessary adaptation to the green agreement. Even these issues of the social state and of climate law are not combined with the medium term. You have a dry, sloppy, superficial medium term. You are very good for communication performances, but you do not all contain them in the design until 2025. You choose the difficult path, the dangerous, rather, of creative accounting, and we must restore the debate to reality. So what's the reality? I'll say two things. Firstly, the market lives in an incredible price rally on raw materials, transport, consumer products and construction materials. The day before yesterday I was told producers in Thessaloniki that the sheet has risen 70%. You are responsible, because you cannot manage these prices and tell you why. We are first in Europe at energy cost. This is your PPC policy. We're first at energy cost. We did high score last week with a 25% increase in one day, and today we are first with 105 in wholesale, when Bulgaria that we are interconnected is at 83 euros. Is that your energy policy? You have a negative impact on energy policy and living costs and production costs and the viability of businesses. What have you done in two years? Firstly, energy oligopolysts, price manipulation denounced by the large industry. Don't play it that you're friends of industry and entrepreneurship. Enterprises denounce this. Only wins on the tableau to get bonuses for the "blue kids". Mr. Amanatidis, do you know that you have as government the reward of PPC President? You're proud of it. Are you proud of Western Macedonia, which has two and a half thousand unemployed to get PPC President six times the reward, to get bonuses because he writes profits on the Stock Exchange table, while the entire market pays a great deal of shame in the energy price and a cartel that the oligarchy together with PPC shapes market prices at the expense of both the society and the employees of PPC and western Macedonia and Megalopolis? Are you happy with that? You have chosen it, however, and do not "extended to the glaze of the chopani", Mr Amanatidis. And within all of this, we have a fiasco in the balancing market hundreds of millions of euros, we have a raisin on renewable energy, we have a raisin on diesel. And what else do you keep us? Have you forgotten Mr Hatzidakis' commitments that competition will drop prices and that it will not tolerate toys of shame in the market? Now what do you have to say that we are the most expensive country at the wholesale energy price in Europe today? What is your answer to society? So let the big words really talk about the market and the economy. But you know why you can't? Because you have nothing to do with the market. You are related to a state-owned entrepreneurship that only wants to "make" from the mother - home and at the same time to the managers of the blues that come to your offices to make them Golden Boys. But we have nothing to do with this market. We have something to do with the whole society. Let us look at the finest letters in the medium term, Mr President. Demilitarizations. What's he saying? From 2022 onwards the revenue will come from the tenders for ELPE, DEPA, Infrastructure, ESPA, ELPA and PPC, Mr Amanatidis. In your medium term, he writes it. Therefore, you will leave Greece without the tools for governance in energy. We see the results of games that happen when we have few, if you like, players on the market. And now you choose to give the whole gas network of Greece into the pandemic to a private person? And then how will this market be controlled? That is not, as you can see, free competition. You grant a private monopoly to a natural monopoly and you put it in the medium term and you want to get revenue from it by granting the country's energy management to a private person. That's inadmissible! In fact, it is unacceptable that you have made arrangements to privatise both water and infrastructures in the last bills of amendment. You do the same in the mid-voltage network, giving a billion-dollar dowry to a private person to get the TEN - and that is within the Recovery Fund - and ultimately the victim is society and the economy at the same time, because they all pay high costs and households and businesses. You are contained in the tables and the "ELELANDS PETRELAYA" - not enough to grant the administration free of charge to the Latsis Group - but also includes the EAFRD and EAFRD despite the decisions of the Council of State to respect the majority of the public in the water bodies. But you are not confined to them. You have within the Recovery Fund a proposal for there to be a Water Regulatory Authority, because you have put in the eye to privatize the JHA, the Waste Regulatory Authority because you seek privatisation and waste and proceed to PPP in irrigation and Civil Protection. Listen, PPP in irrigation and civil protection! You only aim to serve your friends through the awards of PPP projects, with contracts shared and transferring costs to the public, and indeed with forecasts of budgets in future budgets, thus with budgetary burdens. What you are doing is disastrous for the country, disastrous for the next budgets. I cannot close my position, Mr President - and I thank you very much - because in this budget, in the medium term, there is a reduction in the public record, a decline in it with a low public investment programme, without being staffed, without investment in equipment, by privatising many functions, such as privatising environmental controls. The result will be that the country does not have control over major disasters, prevention of fires, as it does not now, to prevent flood risks. You are seeking to have a country that is vulnerable, lacking and lacking in resilience. This is your vision. That is why Greece needs a progressive government. And when we see a picture today, Mr. Hatzidakis has taken the broom, I have to tell you that the time is not too late for the broom to be taken by the Greek people and politically and electorally, he will wipe out your government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u258	Thank you too, Mr. Famele. I will give the floor to Mr Vassilis Vassilis Vassilis from New Democracy and Pella, followed by Mrs Gara, Mr Vitsas and Mrs Alexopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are discussing today is a product of systematic and methodical processing of the quantitative elements of the Greek economy. First of all, I would like to refer to the quality of the final text, as we have in front of us a good implementation of the appropriate methodology and a generally qualitative result. This is the most reliable projection of the Greek economy in the future in four years' time. The accelerating Ministry of Finance and the government as a whole set the medium-term targets and forecast budgetary developments by 2025. I do not wish to mourn this House by repeating information on the pages of the draft law. Instead, I would like to focus on the conclusions we can draw by studying the medium-term context and putting it in the current time-frame. Ladies and gentlemen, in July 2019 the Greek people trusted the New Democracy, including because of its specific and detailed programme, with a clear reformist character and detailed cost. The only thing that did not foresee the New Democracy programme - and how it could have been - was the pandemic, the most serious global health crisis in the past 100 years, which has shown that it has still been followed by strong economic and social consequences. The question, therefore, which I had in mind while reading the medium-term framework was this: to what extent did the pandemic affect the objectives set by the New Democracy for the country's fiscal strategy? The most important conclusion to be drawn is that, in general, and despite the major consequences of the pandemic, the Greek economy is located within the track that we set in July 2019. Of course, this is not a magical result. The Government, with the Ministry of Finance in this case in the first line, demonstrated the seriousness, training and responsibility of the judiciary. The well-designed and coordinated interventions in the Greek economy, with the liquidity injections in those sectors that were in real need, with personalised funding, with the emphasis on maintaining jobs and a negotiation on the Recovery Fund that provided the necessary funds for the next day, have kept the country up and now allow return to the objectives before the pandemic. In addition, the reformist character of New Democracy's governance remains at the centre of it. All this has resulted, as the Minister, Mr Scully, said at the meeting of the committee responsible, in the absence of a secondary crisis today. Instead, we have in front of us forecasts of an increase in Greek GDP over the world average and even the largest in the Eurozone for the period 2021-2022. This trend continues until 2025. For the entire period, therefore, there is a cumulative increase of 88.4% for investment, 43.1% for exports, a reduction in unemployment by five points and a decrease in red loans below 10%. Furthermore, the increasing credibility of the government, in conjunction with the investment opportunities offered by our country, allows us to also set the objective of recovering the investment step by the first half of 2023. The forecasts are good. The primary surplus, the increase in private consumption, the attraction of investment and the de-escalation of unemployment are objectives which are immediately feasible after the end of the health crisis. Now, then, it is the time of the state's responsibility primarily but also of every individual citizen. We must not leave any weapon unexploited in the battle against the COVID -19 pandemic. Compliance with hygiene measures and rules must be done not by fear of any fine or other penalty, but by consciousness to end the nightmare. And, of course, vaccination must proceed quickly so that we can gradually build the firewall. I will not go far, Mr President. However, before I close my position, I would like to refer to the attitude of counter-population. Unfortunately, the groups of the Greek Parliament's minority do not show the seriousness that is required or responsible for the next day's issue. Worldwide the friction of the pandemic brought dramatic changes in the functioning of the economy, the supply chain, work, environmental protection and elsewhere. It sets critical dilemmas for the future, in which quality parliamentary dialogue will be more than useful. However, what do we see? The return to reasonable wage increases and reduction of working hours with a law and an article. I think this attitude is not worthy of the Greek people. What the citizens of our country deserve is the quality of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan "Greece 2.0" and the methodicality of its implementation by the Government. Thank you and I call on the House to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u260	And we thank Mr Vassiliou. We continue north Greece, we go further on to Hebrew, Mrs Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u261	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you have tabled a very quiet and concise motion for a resolution to the House on the medium-term financial framework for the years 2022-2025, a framework which should be discussed in broad terms, because it concerns the economic strategy for the coming years and, indeed, through a pandemic and an economic and social crisis, a medium-term framework which, of course, mirrors, as you have said, your disastrous policy but also the political ethos that accompanies you: aggression, austerity, a reduction in the social state, an increase in inequalities, a sale of public property, heavy promises, mockery and lies to the Greek people. You have promised, ladies and gentlemen, development. You have brought a recession from the first months of your governance before the pandemic and this is reflected in the medium-term context. You promised well-paid jobs. You bring about a reduction in income, a bleeding of citizens, an increase in taxes on persons and businesses. You have promised growth and you bring vague, inappropriate figures and forecasts that do not fall into any reality, do not even go hand in hand with European terms and growth forecasts. And the most tragic example of your hypocrisy and indifference is that you have promised tax evasions and medium-sized support, and in the medium-term, which we read, it is clearly stated that all tax evasions have been abolished since 2022, but all of which you have said that they will also be permanent. Well, lie. This is the main feature of your own policy. It is not enough that, in the midst of a pandemic, you have not supported the real economy, workers and small businesses, it is not enough to advertise millions of euros, which have never reached most of the citizens and businesses - they are still waiting for them - that you have not taken protection measures either of health or of society, now you are abolishing the minimum measures, minimum tax evasions in the midst of a crisis. And you're doing this in the House, because at the same time you're giving leaks yesterday and the other day to your friendly media that you're going to go to new relief measures. Your old sieve art and fake leaks and lies themselves. But you say to the media, but you legislate within the House and it applies to citizens. But how much do you think citizens will believe you when the very reality they are experiencing is tragic and, in the end, do you present a picture that serves your communication account alone? Incidentally, Mr. Ministers, while flaming us in the lie about the development you have brought and the proper management that you have been doing for many months, Mr. Georgiadis just informed us that the money from the state has come to an end. People wonder and ask us from yesterday: Where did the money go? Where did the 37 billion-dollar pillow left by SYRIZA and you themselves admit there is? Where did your good and excellent final management go from the Government of New Democracy? Where'd the money go from the boom of the investments made since the first day you take over the governance? Did they go to the media, to PPC Golden Boys, to the CEO executives, to relatives and friends, to direct assignments? However, the citizens did not direct this money either to the economy or to the health system, to the schools or to the social state. And to be honest, ladies and gentlemen, all that is not explicitly written in the medium term are rumphets, waste and gifts, elements that accompany New Democracy's policy over time. So the strategy text you submitted shows that in 2020 our country recorded the third worst economic performance in the Eurozone, which SYRIZA has pointed out for a long time and we asked you to put forward concrete proposals to intervene in time with forward measures to stimulate and support the real economy and society, something that you, of course, consciously, ideologically, avoided, so that you would let the country sink into a continuous recession. You have taken very few measures to support the real economy, businesses, workers and small and medium-sized enterprises, which have proved to be ineffective and incomplete, measures -'spirins', but which are also being abolished immediately. Remove aid measures, remove the reduction of the special solidarity levy, remove the reduction of insurance contributions, reduce VAT reductions in specific services, pay for specific purposes and many other measures, which are included in the financial framework that you have tabled. You must admit, finally, that you have lied to the Greek people, that you have been consciously mocking citizens, that you have used small and medium-sized enterprises only to go up to the government and since the first day of your administration, to turn their backs on them. We read in the medium-term forecast of a primary surplus of 2% for 2023, and today we have a recession of 7%. And we wonder: How will the 16 billion-dollar gap be covered within a minimum period of time? From the bleeding of the citizens, from the tax raid, as is provision for an increase of 28% of the revenues from taxes, from the divestment of the property and even the first home, as provided for by the bankruptcy law, from the increase in unemployment and the reduction of consumption, from the highly indebted households who see prices in supermarkets, to the current, fuel, the cost of everyday life to increase rapidly? Will you, in fact, take any measure to limit the accuracy, or do you seek the accuracy, in order to serve the most extreme form of neoliberalism that wants to dissolve the small and medium-sized class, the poorness of the people, in order to magnify their riches, and often your friends? And while, ladies and gentlemen, for the majority of citizens, the pages and predictions are black, you are proud to present your vision of development. And what's that? Selling public property and privatising even critical productive or social sectors, such as PPC, PPC, HYDAP, ELPE, ports, infrastructure, transport and much more you throw them in the bucket of deprivation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. The sale, in fact, is called 'investment', in an attempt to justify the provision of 30% when the European average is estimated at 5%. How much more lies, really, will you say to serve this supposedly developmental pro-investing profile? Finally, more importantly, in the medium term you have tabled there is no provision for the social state. There are no words society, work, health, welfare. No reference to transition and green development policies. No mention of the future for the modern future. No mention of the new generation, no mention of finding a way out. No reference to the use of financial instruments, however, for the benefit of many, for the benefit of society, such as the Recovery Fund or the NSRF or the Public Investment Programme, any developmental visionary policy that gives us a way out. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So the medium-term programme - and I am closing, Mr President, and thank you - mirrors the ideological, material, anti-social, disastrous and dangerous policy for your citizens. You give no prospect, no breath, no guarantee of growth and prosperity. So no matter what lies, and communications terrestrials, the reality disguises you. So instead of listening to the narrow society, you are more tightening up the noose with a gaze, unfortunately, of arrogance and arrogance as other Louises. And this society doesn't forgive and can't tolerate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, too. Mr. Dimitrios Vitsakis, Second Vice-President, is elected to the 2nd West Athens Sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u263	Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, I do not raise the tone when I speak. But how can I call speeches by Members of the Co-Population thankfully not most of them, but even from a Congressman of Computation on 2015? They raise the finger, that's what I like! Today's discussion and forecasts of the financial staff would have been unthinkable if SYRIZA had not become a government, if he had not taken the country out of the memorials with society upright and in the development process, as is evident in Table 2, page 30, with the basic sizes of the Greek economy. Unless they would like the Financial Stability Fund to be in Luxembourg, to talk about the 2015 referendum and its results. Unless they liked to have hundreds of thousands of Greeks who didn't have access to public health. I can't believe they'd like it. But such a thing, the government's tactic not to defend the work it does itself, but to oppose the opposition to opposition? If you don't think we're cobbled, we know that your contacts have told you to do this. Because you don't have to present any serious work. Well, the insolence of the end, because this is a shameful thing that has happened here today and a number of speeches. And how is SYRIZA's condemnation of 32% in the June 2019 elections, but is it not a condemnation but a proud victory, 18.85% to - not to mention all and I am wasting time - 28.1% of New Democracy from Mr. Samaras to Mr. Meimarakis? So let's apologize for yourself. They usually say, Mr. Dollacakis, the medium-term program is a card exercise and they accuse you of it. I don't blame you for that. Of course, it is a card exercise, since we are talking about future things. What we are interested in is methodology. In the methodology and the main objectives, we have disagreement. You are also aware that this is why we will not vote on it. But you, too, have one butt, and I would like to talk about it. On page 83 in the chapter on 'Government risk sources', you say: 'However, uncertainty about the development of the pandemic remains high, resulting in estimates of both positive and negative divergences especially this year'. And so you also make two more scenarios, which you illustrate in a table called ‘Sensitivity analysis results, percentage of deviations from the baseline scenario’. So that's a possibility that you guys put on. The second possibility is a possible increase in interest rates. Through an analysis of yours - you know in my analysis came out more than a hundred base points but this is disagreement, it's nothing scary - you say that, as you will continue, we may have a very big difference, an increase in interest rates. After all, Germany controls the game and international financial markets this thing. We have to think about it. There is a third point, however, which is not mentioned in the analysis of sensitivity. What about the Stability Pact since 2023? Will the same or similar thing remain, as Germany's prominent political and economic actors are already saying? And what does it mean if it remains the same for the sensitivities of the European and Greek economy? Why am I saying this? Why does Alexis Tsipras go through a task for our country, which, in my view, was very much described in his recent speech by Alexis Tsipras? We have a duty as Greece to open the debate in time on the transformation of the Stability Pact into a Convergence and Sustainable Development Pact. We must actively support the Green Agreement in terms of a fair transition as well as inclusive, digital transformation. To fight for the establishment of the Recovery Fund for a permanent development mechanism and to insist on exploiting it productively in the countries of the whole of Europe. To support the minimum guaranteed corporate tax on financing growth, economic convergence and the social state. We must support the European pillar of social rights which has been discussed in Porto. We must take the lead, since an insecurity comes from the pandemic, to remove patent restrictions aimed at the fastest vaccination in Europe and in the developing world. That is what we consider and I think that is the minimum requirement to go ahead with the necessary project if you want Europe's societies to be saved. And I'm just finishing up, 'cause I see I've been through time. On the basis of your forecasts, the tax revenues that 2019 was 46.5% of GDP, 2025 will be 44.9% of GDP. That, if all your predictions come out. I hope, of course, that these forecasts will not be like last year, that is, from positive to 0%, to minimally negative and 5% to 10% at the end to get in. You are a teacher, and Mr Vesiropoulos is a well-known economist, 5% to 10% is not a prediction. I could say from 5% to 5%, I'd be inside. But if the target fails this year for a deficit of 7.1%, that means greater budgetary adjustment. And with just economics, what do we do if we don't achieve this? Do you know what is envisaged on the basis of final legislation, the present one? Reduction of costs. And the easy to reduce costs are social benefits, health investment and health expenditure in general, increased taxes, toys with insurance contributions, toys with pensions. And one last. Mr Staikoras spoke - I imagine you are aware of his speech - on seventeen points. I'm not gonna catch one, but I'm going to go to what made me a big impression, the tenth. He mentions some things before and says: "Democratizations, such as marinas and regional ports, are being exploited by public property as was done in investment in Greek". I don't understand. Mr. Georgiadis said that thank God that the SYRIZA government existed and proceeded with the investment. Anyway, I don't mind that. He continues: "They are organized public companies that have cost Greek taxpayers a lot, such as Skaramaga Shipyards." Has something happened that I don't know about? I know that there have been two competitions in the Scaramaga shipyards, both of which have been fruitless, and now you continue to want to do two, while all the people of western Athens, first the Municipality of Haidari, says that the space of pier 4 will be given and the rest will be placed in the competition, but with the guarantee of the workers. For the first time I've seen a competition where all the workers and the debts... Have you put 180 million in the budget as state expenditure? If someone gets the Scaramaga shipyard, they'll be released from 180 million. Second, the ODA. On Tuesday I was at the OAV along with comrade Dritsa, comrade Pulou, the comrade Sarakiotis. We were not told by EAB's administration about restructuring. Instead, when we told them whether there was a case of restructuring of ODA and privatisation or half-privateisation, they refused it in full. So either you don’t agree with the companies you control and command, or everyone does their heads any more. Look at you see, the only good with this medium-term as you calculate it is that it is by 2025, so it is doubtful whether you will then be government and it is a very big question if you have the right to commit the country by 2025. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u265	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u266	Here you go, Mr. Dog.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u267	I'm not gonna set up. I'll say two small points. One is that I am not a teacher, I have never been and have never been such an ambition at my age.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u268	Known economist. I've brought you up!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u269	The Stability Pact, i.e. in Europe, is essentially something that can only be changed by unanimity. So the change will be a very complex negotiation in which we and the others in the South will not only have views.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u270	I ask what you think.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u271	And changing the rules that will be in place, it is surely going to be the best, but their implementation should also apply to us. There will be no exception to the rules.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u272	Mr. Dog, what's the government's view?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u273	Please, Mr. Vitsa. He didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u274	I don't complain why he interrupted me. I want his opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u275	I understand what you're saying. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u276	This negotiation will not be done with wishing, how we would like the planet to be. We must find a common place with other Europeans for very practical things such as, for example, how quickly the debt must be reduced in order to reach the Maastricht Treaty. Right now we have a rule that says 1/20 of distance, which is a bad rule for us. He's the one. We'll have to go to better rules. It is much more practical, and much more vital, what will be judged in this negotiation. As far as finally the obvious victory achieved by SYRIZA in 2019, with eight points back, I think you can also look forward to other such conspicuous victories.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u277	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u278	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u279	Here you go, Mr. Besyropoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the medium-term draft of a fiscal strategy to be voted on in Parliament reflects the clear growth target of this government, its continuous orientation to reduce tax burdens, but also the qualitative characteristics that the development process must have, which are linked both to increasing investment and creating new jobs, and to reducing unemployment. From the beginning of the pandemic, at the beginning of 2020, the Civic Opposition invested in destruction, discovered new memos, proceeded to ruthless assessments, which were disproved as a whole. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has designed and implemented a wide range of support for social groups affected by the pandemic that touches 41 billion euros. For example, over six hundred thousand individual businesses, professionals and legal persons who raised EUR 8.2 billion in total from seven cycles of the repayable advance have benefited. The amounts granted through the fourth cycle, as well as those granted through subsequent cycles of the repayable advance, are non-refundable by 50% and the remaining 50% is repaid in sixty instalments, with the first instalment in January 2022, and the possibility of a one-off refund of 15% of the repayable amount. More than 1,3 million workers who were suspended from contracts which received special-purpose compensation with the total amount exceeding EUR 6 billion. More than five hundred thousand free professionals and small businesses received special purpose compensation and increased special purpose compensation, and more than three hundred thousand property owners received compensation in 2021 for reduced rents, estimated at EUR 670 million. In all this, we need to add the EUR 500 million fixed costs subsidy programme, the subsidisation of working capital through the ESRB for businesses in focus, tourism, gyms and pediatricians, totalling EUR 766 million, the grant of loans from natural persons through the GEOFER and legal persons through GEOFER I at an estimated cost of EUR 400 million in the second half of 2021 and many other measures. Throughout this period, the government, despite difficult and adverse circumstances, remained firmly committed to reducing tax burdens. I would remind you in summary: the reduction of the tax rate for businesses from 28% to 22%, the introduction of the import rate for employees, pensioners, farmers and free traders and for incomes up to EUR 10,000 from 22% to 9%. The reduction of the tax advance on legal persons and legal entities from 100% to 80% from the tax year 2021 on a permanent basis. In particular for the 2020 fiscal year, due to the particular circumstances, we have ensured that the tax advance is further reduced to 70%. We have arranged for the return to 55% of the 100% advance payment of business income tax for natural persons, on a permanent basis from the 2020 tax year. We proceeded to the mid-term reduction of 22% of HPAI for natural persons, to the suspension of the solidarity levy and to the tax year 2021 for all natural persons' income, with the exception of income from employed work in the public sector and pensions. They are therefore all aware of the difference and quality characteristics in the planning and implementation of budgetary policy in relation to the past. The previous government had chosen the way to achieve the budgetary targets through overtaxation. But there is another way to achieve these objectives. Tax revenue can be increased without any new taxes being imposed. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis proves this in practice as it has not imposed any new tax. On the contrary, it went on to reduce taxes. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Ladies and gentlemen, we can achieve the targets for primary surpluses without additional taxes, through growth and investment, through increased incomes. The medium-term draft budget strategy provides for the recovery of tax revenue from 2022 onwards - after the significant reduction in 2020, 2021, due to the limitation of economic activity - and measures to support households and businesses. On the other hand, there is an even more impressive rise in tax revenues from income tax, without imposing any additional tax. After all, there is no such indication or reference in the medium term. As far as our own government is concerned, our policy is clear on the issue of primary surpluses. We will not overcome them, because their transcendence deprives them of valuable resources from the Greek economy. I would remind you that overcoming the primary surpluses from the previous SYRIZA - ANEL government has deprived the economy of significant funds and has been a barbaric and unsurpassed barrier to development. Because it is growth that reduces unemployment, increases incomes, makes it easier to achieve the objectives and, above all, creates a financial space to implement a new tax reduction package. The government's forecast for GDP growth by 3.6% in 2021 is modest, since the Commission appreciates a dynamic recovery of the Greek economy by 4.1% in 2021, thanks mainly to the significant contribution of the recovery fund. Over the next few years, as reflected in the medium term, strong and sustainable growth will be the spearhead for our economy. The following GDP growth rates are forecast: 6.2% in 2022, 4.1% in 2023, 4.4% in 2024 and 3.3% in 2025. These high growth rates will be based on increased investment, which will share GDP by 16.7% in 2025 of the 11.1% in 2020. They will also support the significant increase in public investment over the next five years, the increase in private consumption to 2.9% of 2022 and 2.5% on average in the years to come, the use of the resources of the Recovery Fund, the new NSRF and private capital investments totalling EUR 100 billion. Especially for the Recovery Fund, I must point out that the total available resources amount to EUR 30.5 billion by 2026, while taking into account additional private investment funds, total investment funds of EUR 59 billion are expected to be activated. Ladies and gentlemen, the medium-term budgetary strategy programme for the years 2022 to 2025 confirms the firm orientation of this government in its original objectives, the creation of an attractive environment for attracting investment, the strengthening of development and economic activity and the reduction of tax burdens. For two years now, citizens have seen tax reductions for the first time. They are experiencing substantial changes and reforms. The real economy and business are unleashed by the weights of the past, by all those factors that acted relatively in terms of growth. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis annually strengthens his relationship of trust with the citizens, strengthens the country's credibility. It lays the foundations for a new creative Greece that will produce wealth and create equal opportunities for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u281	And we thank the Minister, Mr Besiropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u282	Mr President, I am speaking as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u283	You have the floor for two minutes, but I don't know why you asked to intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, it's interesting that we have you today. You started your position, saying the opposition uses only horrific scripts or dangers. However, we have heard nothing about your position on the real and not a ruthless scenario, of the fact that Greece today is the most expensive country at the wholesale energy price. I have to tell you, Mr Secretary, that in April 2020 we had 28 euros wholesale energy price on 1MWh and today, last week, our country had 128 euros. There is, therefore, a fivefold increase in the price of energy, which does not meet your forecasts and has been passed on to all consumer products. The second thing we did not hear about is privatization. Do you, in the medium term, intend to privatise the water services in Athens and Thessaloniki, i.e. HYDAP and HYDAP, and create a gas monopoly in a private person for all of Greece? As far as entrepreneurship is concerned, I think you have told us nothing about the returnee. Producers and we propose that the returnee should not be returned to business to feed it. You haven't said anything about it, and the market is really waiting. Because from the focus and tourism programmes that you have started, unfortunately the eligibility and inclusion range in very low rates, under 20% and very late, the programmes, such as the fixed expenditure subsidy programme, have been activated. It is not yet possible for companies to be in the tendering process and to wait in the autumn to get the set-aside subsidy! All the measures you mentioned are those which are abolished in 2021 and will not apply in 2022. So, you're proud of what you won't have in 2022 to support the economy? And because you're talking about tax reductions, I want, Mr. Undersecretary, to solve us a paradox. At the rate of growth you anticipate - I am not commenting on - you have at the same time an increase in corporate taxation of 145%. Since the growth rate is not so much, how can you increase tax revenues from business 145% and from natural persons 46%? And don't tell me any more than the growth rates you have told me, because I will remind you that Greece was the third worst country in the European Union in terms of its recession and that is your responsibility, it is not the responsibility of the pandemic. So please land in reality and give us real data. No more propaganda, please. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u285	Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, you said that I have said nothing about the repayable advance, and I have analysed you that out of all seven cycles of the repayable advance benefited six hundred thousand individual businesses, professionals and legal persons, who raised EUR 8 billion. Of these, in the fourth cycle, in the fifth, sixth and seventh, 50% of this will be unauthorised, for this liquidity you said before, and the other 50% will be repaid in sixty instalments with the first instalment since January 2022, while a one-off refund of 50% is granted with a 15% discount.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u287	Don't come back, I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u288	You will listen to me, Mr. Comrade. I didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u289	Don't interrupt, you heard. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u290	You said nothing, Mr Colleague, about the tax reductions I mentioned earlier, about the fiscal policy programme that the country has implemented since the beginning of our administration. You did not say about reducing the tax rate from 28% to 22%, about introducing a new initial import rate of 9% for employees, pensioners, farmers, free professionals and individual businesses from 22% to 9%, up to the first EUR 10,000. You did not say about the average reduction of 22% of HPAI for natural persons, a law that you would take him down from the first day of your governance. You remember very well. Medianly reduced by 22% for property of up to EUR 60,000 30%, for property of up to EUR 70,000 27%, for up to EUR 80,000 25%, for up to 1 million 20% and over 1 million 10%. And I repeat a tax that you would abolish from the first day of your governance and instead of abolishing it, you came and more than tripled the tax rates of the additional ENPI and lowered the tax rate from three hundred to two hundred thousand. You said nothing about the solidarity levy that we suspended for two years consecutively in the private sector, a tax that was abolished in December 2016, you permanently simulated and more than tripled the tax rates from 0.7% to 12.000 to 20,000 euros, from 20,000 to 30,000 euros - was Mrs Papanatsiou the previous Minister - can tell you that it is exactly the figures I am saying - from 1.4% to 5% and so on. There is more than triple of the tax you have simulated. You said nothing about the tax advance that you did from 55% to 100%, and we are now reintroducing it on a permanent basis. You said nothing about the tax advance - the previous one was for natural persons - for legal persons, who from 80% took her to 100%. You have nothing to say about your tax policy, because you have come and taxed everyone and everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, too. The New Democracy MP, Christina Alexopoulou, has the floor for seven minutes. I would ask that we keep time for everyone, because we are going too late. The rest of you who are expected to speak let us adjust the time. We all know, it's not the first time everyone's been talking, that time is seven minutes. Hot request. Mrs Alexopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u292	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vitsas has left, but I wanted to make a comment after what he said. I, too, do not like to comment on the speeches of colleagues from whatever party they are, but because he talked about insolence, I think she should have listened to Mrs Gara's speech that made us smile in here, when she dared even say that we came to power with lies. Who? Mrs. Gara and her group who would abolish, as you quite rightly said, Mr. Minister, HNPHIA, with a law and an article, would tear up the memos, the markets would dance pentosal and stuff like that. So he dared to say, Mr. Vitsats, that we speak in impunity. He probably hasn't heard of his colleagues, or we don't live in the same country. What can I say? So, the next day is in some way here, not just the next day after the pandemic, because we still have a little way to go, but the next day of a new Greece, not only the return to normality that we will fight a little more for it, but the return to growth. And that wasn't self-evident. It's not done automatically because we're just overcoming the crisis. It is because a worker, a housewive government since the first day of the takeover of power, did not stop working towards this goal, its reform work did not stop even at a time, even in the midst of the greatest health crisis of the century. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis was elected to change Greece and that is what it is doing. Today, in the medium-term framework of a fiscal strategy for the period 2022-2025, we are reading its future, a prosperous and optimistic future. So let's see how we got here, leaving the country from the edge of the cliff, to which we listened with those strange experimentations of the SYRIZA, how from the closed banks, the risk of bankruptcy, the exit from the euro and the role of the parity to which we had been brought then - that group - we have come to set an example for imitation and an equal interlocutor in the international family. Before and above all we kept the health system strong and the Greeks safe and healthy. Greece has succeeded where large-scale countries have failed so well. We faced the first time of pandemic with direct, courageous decisions, which were then even over-concentrated. Finally, they were internationally tested for their effectiveness in the first wave of pandemic and they were an example for many other countries. We have thus kept Greece open in the summer of 2020, supporting parallel businesses and households. We are implementing the giant programme of the national vaccination campaign with complete success, so that we can get out as quickly as possible of the restrictions and open up business. Against the well-known destruction of SYRIZA the Greeks are being vaccinated massively and rapidly and thus the powerful immunity wall is being built and entrepreneurship recovers. The road is a long one, but we'll make it. And while we are shielding ourselves in the health field, our main concern is to shield the market and protect jobs. With financial injections exceeding 41 billion euros, targeted and studied, we did not let the crisis deepen, we did not let the economic activity get severely ill. With intervention - because Mrs Gara told us earlier that the world, the Greek citizens, who took the money - went to the repayable and non-refundable advance, to support the officials on parole. Reducing rent, freezing insurance contributions, subsidising working capital, subsidising loans are some of this money and so much more. We did what was humanly possible. We have kept society and the economy standing, so that it can make it easier for us to return to normality after this great trial. At the same time, however, with regard to the pandemic and its consequences, we have not lost our commitment to our reforms and our legislative work at the moment. With important legislation and interventions in many key areas, we have shaped the framework within which entrepreneurship and the country will be able to step on their feet, to recover and move forward. We have reformed the framework of public procurement, procurement and services. We promoted and strengthened the country's investment profile. Already global business colosses, such as VOLKSWAGEN, MICROSOFT, AMAZON are in the country, showing their confidence in its future development prospects. This further strengthens Greece's international image as a safe investment destination, opening the way for even greater extroversion. We vote for the state. Our central strategic choice is the digital transformation of the country and the public, in order to reduce costs and achieve its processes. Already more than a thousand transactions with the public become digital via gov.gr, forming a new, modern state and citizen relationship and saving tens of thousands of workers and thinking that we are still at the beginning. We have secured huge funding. The "National Recovery and Resilience Plan Greece 2.0" and the new NSRP together with the private funds that will mobilize the country ensure more than 100m euros for the next period, funds that we must absorb rationally and quickly and not let this golden opportunity be lost. Finally, even in this climate of global uncertainty in recent months, this government has managed to go ahead with tax relief for small and medium-sized enterprises, supporting their return to economic activity and developing a sense of security for the years to come. Ladies and gentlemen, with all the above and much more, this government has done all this in the first two years of its governance so that we have this medium-term financial strategy framework for the period 2022-2025 and we can safely talk about positive growth, investment, reduction of unemployment, exports and primary surpluses. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Talk about the future and not sterile about the past. Methodically, we are constantly reversing the economy by works and not by announcements, based on secure resources and not on theoretical forecasts. The large funds that I have mentioned before, the private funds from investment, the increase in tourism and the reduction in the costs due to the coronary create a stable reserve for recovery. This is why the forecasts of the debt-reducing framework as a percentage of GDP of about 50%, growth rate of up to 6.2%, rapid growth in investment and revenues, a marked decline in unemployment by 5%, are not profitable. It is the result of the work and the trouble of the Greeks and they mark the definitive change in the development model of the country and its ranking where it deserves it. And because, behind the figures, there are always people, all the above finally signify a new treatment of the state towards the citizen with modern benefits and services, with a new respect and the possibility of further reductions in taxation, so that we return to the Greeks the income that has been lost by the over ten years. A new Greece is revealed today through the figures of the Medium term. It is this Greece that we are seeking and for which we continue to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u293	Please settle the Step in order for SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance, George Papaliou, to speak for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u294	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the New Democracy Government is not going on the basis of policies that are open to citizens. It is prosecuted on the basis of its pre-election promises that are not implemented, false and a propaganda mechanism that is silent, conceals, overshadows, distorts, and ultimately misled. Even the official government texts find inaccurate, beautiful images and, of course, unthinkable forecasts such as the Medium-term Financial Strategy Framework 2022-2025. The government's intentions for the economic policy to be followed are unrealisticly and realistically unrealisticly. However, it is not a plan to relaunch the economy needed by the country. This gap is not random. The lack or suppression of the basic strategy for the economy helps the government to present another, a restrictive plan abroad and the European institutions and a more generous one inside, at the audience of its voters, especially by maintaining, I repeat, the pre-election promises. Thus, in the medium term, there is no reference to the suspension of the Stability and Growth Pact, nor to the forecasts for the global and European economy, especially the effects on the Greek economy. Furthermore, as far as the references to the Greek economy are concerned, the unpleasant forecasts of the course of tourism and the course of the red loans are not taken seriously. What is clearly reflected is the abolition of the support measures and the limited tax relief implemented during the pandemic, that is, in recent months. All the measures taken by the government are being abolished because of the health crisis, which is certainly not over. A key point for what economic policy the government will pursue is that from the primary deficit of over 7% this year there will be a primary surplus of 2% in 2023. This means that a difference of EUR 16 billion must be covered. In order to do this, apart from the cuts in the measures, tax revenues are projected to increase by 28%. There is also provision for a sharp increase in investment by 30%, when in the European Union the rate of growth of investment is estimated to be 5%. Impossible things. In addition, it is clear that these investments also concern the few and the strong, since the devaluation of labour and the reduction in wages pave the way for them. With these policies implemented by the government, the country is in danger of facing a financial financial problem again. Although the SYRIZA government received a positive financial and economic situation with eleven consecutive quarters of development and the well-known and undisputed budgetary security pillow of 37 billion. Where did the rulers tell us, neither have you, Minister. These should be added to the removal of budgetary restrictions and the resources of the Development Fund, so that the crisis can be avoided. But the government's plan has as a unique prospect a hard neoliberal model: Development, which means for the vast majority of society that the income and level of social services provided are reduced. Recently the law for further deregulation of labour relations and a reduction in wage costs has been passed, while the funds from the Recovery Fund are planned to be directed to large business groups and to privatise public enterprises in infrastructure and energy. Even for water, this social asset, and despite the opposite decision of the Council of State, is being promoted by privatisation. Infrastructural projects are selected to be awarded to PPPs. Partial privatisation of the insurance system is promoted, even under pandemic conditions, the privatisation of the National Health System with the well-known results and selective privatisation of education. The economic level promotes politically harmful to destructive small and medium-sized property, the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship that has supported and supported the country's economic and social cohesion. The aim of the tax reform is, moreover, to redistribute resources to the richest groups and to accumulate capital for the benefit of the very large business groups. In contrast to these political objectives, our party's progressive proposal prejudges a strategy for economic development with social justice with processed proposals and specific positions with emphasis on highlighting comparative advantages and strengthening domestic productive forces in the context of changing the production model. The productive model restores security, stability and social cohesion by strengthening labour, regulating private debt created during pandemic and environmental protection policies. In particular, the abolition of the new bankruptcy code and the settlement of private debt are essential to the relaunch of the economy after the pandemic. Only during the pandemic were new debts of 17 billion to the public and banks which continue to be cumulated. It is therefore proposed that full deletion of interest and surcharges on debts to the public sector and the deletion of part of the nominal debt by repayment of the rest in a hundred and twenty instalments. At the same time, measures are proposed to strengthen the liquidity of small and medium-sized enterprises. There can be no economic growth by deregulation of the labour market and wage cuts. The progressive plan promotes the regulation of the labour market by collective labour agreements and the increase in wages, but also by an overall multi-faceted support for workers, as well as by the transfer of funding to productive and technological investment, such as the agri-food sector, combined with the production and processing of agricultural products, all of which are essential conditions for a fair recovery by reducing disparities.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u295	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u296	Local and regional development can make a significant contribution to economic development throughout the country. After all, in SYRIZA's proposal to make use of the resources of the Recovery Fund, particular emphasis is placed on local and regional development strategy, the revitalisation and participation of local societies in the planning for the use of development funds. In other words, it is a policy of regional and social cohesion aimed at the sustainability of the Greek economy, with a real prospect of inclusiveness, inequality and insecurity. Ladies and gentlemen, all this is an unknown country, a terra incognita, for the Medium-term Financial Strategy Framework proposed by the Government of the Staff State, the excellence of Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u297	Mrs Constantina Adamou from Mera25 has the floor for seven minutes. Please warmly. We cannot be exceeded in times. Warm request. At seven minutes I will warn you to close with the phrase you are developing and the proposal you are completing. Here you go, Mrs. Adamou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are insisting on your constant tactics to try and beautify reality. A reality which, despite your outrages, needs or at least should need serious and responsible response, which unfortunately once again we do not see in your draft law on the medium-term framework for budgetary strategy. How is it possible to speak of a Greece of prosperity and recovery, when you are constantly taking measures against the average Greek citizen, when any exceptional support measures have been taken and in their place you are bringing taxes that will affect people's incomes and households even further? In fact, at a time when the facts show exactly the opposite. So I ask you, when you increase the income tax by 32% and the indirect taxes by 22%, by even deepening the economically weaker strata, how do you think the recovery will occur? How can any recovery occur when the medium-term financial strategy for the period 2022-2025 is essentially the roadmap for the implementation of creditors' cheques, which in practice brings cuts in health, cuts in education, cuts in welfare and cuts in insurance? Where is the support of the majority of society? Where is the strengthening of the social state? Where is the strengthening of health, work and the middle class? Let us not forget the recent anti-labour bill of the Ministry of Labour you voted for, which brings us decades back. The only strategy that seems to exist in your bill is your regular tactics towards privatisation, to strengthen large groups and transfer money towards the troika. Any financial support that Greece has received from the European Union, whether called the "SURE" programme, is called exceptional support measures for the pandemic, either a recovery fund or a memorandum, all of which are loans that the Greek taxpayer will be asked to repay. By simple words you are loading debt mountains on the backs of the Greeks, and you are baptizing this recovery. You're talking about primary surpluses of 3.7%. How are these to be achieved? You are essentially talking about new austerity measures against the Greek people. You are now officially bringing us to the Fifth Memorandum and telling us that this is prosperity. Prosperity for who, someone will be asked. Prosperity obviously for the few and not for the many. As with the budget, as with the medium-term one, you are starting with the wrong analysis, secondly, you are going to go wrong, and thirdly, you are going to come to policies from which the majority of citizens will suffer. Mr. Stavura, I'm not an economist. I am a historian, but I know very well, as you do, that with loans and increased taxation no economic growth can be achieved. Mr Varoufakis has already told you this since last year, which also confirms the IMF and the facts, that there is a recession and much more than you hoped in the New Democracy. In December 2020, the GDP figures for the third quarter were only published and it was confirmed that the recession would be as large as Mr Varoufakis and MRA25, eight months earlier you went and changed the data of the Greek statistical authority. You have used selectively modified elements and not the current prices that correspond to the money actually in the pockets of our people, our fellow citizens. You have included deflationism, that is, negative inflation, which is not about the majority of the citizens who have seen price increases in the types of primary need. They saw their pockets reduce their money. But you, with post-court tricks, would say, change the numbers from 2010 to 2019, in order to show less by 4 billion the GDP loss for 2020, so as to suit your untrue account, supposedly endurance of the Greek economy. In short, you have cut and sewed according to the beam, so that you can show them as it suits you. So you get out that the recession is 8.2% and you even boast about it, while the reality with real elements, without cooking, is over 10%. It is deeper than it was in 2011, which was the worst year of the crisis and then it had reached 8.9%. But whoever lies about the past cannot tell the truth about the future. So now you bring a medium-term based again on the hopes and investment of the "FRAPORT" and Greek type, without strengthening the primary sector, without any real rural development plan and without supporting the small and medium-sized ones, so no real green development. You have created an economy dependent on very few large groups and based on monoculture of tourism. So it is certain that what comes is further locks and unemployment, not recovery. The report by the Ministry of Finance is largely based on a false account, that the Greek economy was about to take off in 2020, thanks to the terrible policies of the government, but unfortunately the pandemic emerged. Of course, ELSTAT, despite the falsification of the data I mentioned, disguises this myth, since not only the growth of the country's GDP for 2019 was extremely anemic, that is, it increased only 1,9% compared to 2018, but then it also went downwards. In particular, the country’s GDP in the fourth quarter of 2019 decreased by 0.7% compared to the third quarter of 2019 and at least six months before the first lockdown was already in recession. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, the reality is that GDP is being oppressed. In 2020 15 billion were lost. Its real reduction is over 10%, while the public debt is being launched at 205.6% of GDP and our young people are still leaving our country. The country's labour force is constantly weakening. According to the IMF Greece records the second largest debt increase worldwide. The International Monetary Fund estimates that Greek debt will not fall below 200% before 2023. It is worth noting that when the Greek crisis broke out, the debt did not exceed 126.7%. Instead of suggesting serious solutions, or at least listening to the serious solutions proposed, you should be content with expectations and communication shows that are not based on anywhere on the substance. Today we have heard great things, great announcements and assurances about the coming of growth and prosperity investments. But whatever tricks you devise, the reality is that there is a huge deficit in the state budget and you perpetuate the recession by bringing empty design followed by new austerity measures. Because only with harsh austerity and bleeding of the citizens, you will be able to achieve the extra-real surpluses you have committed to lenders. So you create illusions and novels which insult the free professionals, the whole of the workers, the pensioners, the unemployed and the entire range of Greek society. Unfortunately, the medium-term you bring to the vote will pay for it once again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u299	Thank you. We continue with the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Dionysio Stamenitis, who has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u300	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I begin, I should like to ask SYRIZA's colleagues a question because I have heard many condemn the PPPs. Obviously now that it's opposition, because when it was in the government they used this method. Unless they have nothing to say why projects are going to be done via PPP. In other words, they cannot say anything about building the street of Thessaloniki - Chalkidona - Giannitsa - Edessa or building the Dam of Good or build the courthouses and find it to be a liberal measure. It's weird. As we all wish, the last part of the biggest health crisis in the past 100 years, which has brought about a series of multi-level negative consequences and has tested the strengths of the economies and societies worldwide, we find that the Greek economy, on the basis of all elements, presents an extremely, once again, given the conditions, an encouraging picture. The economic situation is shaped much better than the most optimistic estimates were predicted. We saw this happen in practice as well as in the 2020 recession, which held back at 8.2% when all forecasts were talking about more than 10%. Not to say what the opposition said about the recession. Let's leave it better. It has therefore been shown that the Greek economy has greater strength and government policy is more than they want its critics to present. In a particularly unstable economic environment, as it has been shaped in the last eighteen months, it is clear that our country is doing it. So we support the fact that the Greek economy has a better performance than expected not because we are simply arguing for the policy mix followed by the government and the financial staff, but very simply because we read the data and analyse the data, which they show? We talked about it in committee too. Firstly, as regards the first quarter of the year, Greece has the third best European performance in terms of GDP. Secondly, interest rates on government bonds are negative, while in five- and ten-year bonds they record historically low. Thirdly, they show that the economic climate index is almost at the levels that were before the pandemic. Fourthly, industrial production is going upwards, while the processing sector is being strengthened. And finally, private deposits during the health crisis increased by 23 billion. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the medium-term financial framework 2022-2025, including medium-term objectives, budgetary developments and the expenditure framework for the state budget. This is a plan that describes the transition of the Greek economy to rapid growth, giving prospects based on solid foundations. As the rapporteur of the New Democracy has pointed out, in 2021 it is estimated that growth will be around 3.6%, and in 2022 there will be 6.2% for the next 2022 years there will be growth in the next 4% on average, which means increasing investment and exports, as well as reducing unemployment and red loans. For example, the medium-term framework provides that by 2025 investment will increase by 30%. Ladies and gentlemen, the medium-term framework is being discussed in recent days. We have heard a lot of criticism about where we support the forecasts, that none of what we say will be confirmed in practice, that we are simply presenting a virtual optimistic picture. That is why it is important to mention that both the extension of the general escape clause for 2022 and the implementation of the Recovery and Resilience Plan 'Greece 2.0', along with the great progress that has been made over the last two years in promoting the reforms, now allow us to discuss on this basis, plan and set targets that we estimate we will achieve. We don't say anything in the air. We're counting on the data. I would like at this point to focus particularly on the resources of the Recovery Fund and their key role. It is a fact that, as we said in the presentation of the draft "Greece 2.0" at the joint meeting of committees in Parliament, the choices for managing and investing the funds that our country will raise will determine its course not only for the post-Koronian period but also in the new 21st century. The Greek Government has shown that it is determined and ready not to lose the big bet and to seize the historic opportunity called the Recovery Fund. And this testifies to the comprehensive, coherent, developmental and realistic plan that he has drawn up in order to lead the country to the new era, healing the chronic wounds of the Greek economy, solving and overcoming the structural problems of the state and the public sector and transforming the country's productive base. I believe that it is difficult for the opposition, as much as it tries, to question the ability of our country and the Greek Government to make use of the available resources, since the margins of challenge left by the estimates for the Greek project, not our own assessments but the European Union, are extremely limited. Let us not have heard anything specific about how they see in the opposition that resources should be distributed, but only a defence of the previous government, forgetting the closure of banks, the increase in taxes and insurance contributions, the 15 billion memorandum and, of course, the return to the recession because in 2014 we had growth in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last seventeen months any economic planning, like the medium-term plan we are discussing today, has been made in the light of the difficulties that have arisen in the health crisis, but without prejudice to the uncertainty about the course of the pandemic. With this in mind, our country has been able to adapt, cope, face up to difficulties and move in steady steps. At the same time, we must say that it is taking the lead in developments, is located at the centre of the European Union's key and historic decisions, for example the decision on the Recovery Fund, while the Greek proposals are adopted by the European Union, such as the proposal by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis for the European Digital Certificate. Ladies and gentlemen, by closing my position, I would like to stress that the results we have today are a product of proper planning and of organised effort. The work that took place in the first six months after the 2019 elections, the work done by the pandemic and then the faithful implementation of the New Democracy programme for which we were elected and the speed in its implementation created strong foundations for Greece to withstand this difficult adventure and to provide that it can run at high growth the day after the pandemic. This prospect of rapid recovery and safe transition to a new era presents the medium-term framework of a fiscal strategy that we are now called upon to vote in favour. I am in favour of it, and I invite you to do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, too, for the time approach. Eleftherios Avramakis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u302	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the medium-term financial strategy framework 2022-2025. The overall picture is that the government and government officials are confused. I listened carefully to the ministers, Mr. Skalakakis, Mr. Staipiras, Mr. Vesyropoulos, and gave us an image of a country that is in succession, in development, unlike Mr. Georgiadis' statements yesterday, who told us that in a possible fourth wave of pandemic and a new lockdown the country is in danger of bankruptcy and bankruptcy. Finally for the Government of New Democracy from success to bankruptcy a cigarette road. Once again the New Democracy Government brings a bill that is challenging reality. Instead of looking at the economic data, instead of analysing the economic context and the consequences of pandemic on the economy and society, the government is striving to put forward a framework of wishes. The medium-term framework of a fiscal strategy submitted by the government for the next three years, just like the budget it submitted a few months ago, seems to be about another reality. They are simply submitted to serve the government’s communication account and are reviewed before the ink of the National Printing Office is even dryed. The government in this medium term, which declares the end of the pandemic for 2021, when everyone predicts that the pandemic and the risks it poses will continue to exist for at least the first months of 2022 regardless of the evolution of vaccinations. The health needs of the country may not be so pressing if a large proportion of the population is vaccinated, but the needs of the economy and the needs of society will not be magically eliminated in order to overcome the consequences of the pandemic. Nevertheless, the Government provides in practice for the abolition of any measures to support the economy, tax exemptions and social support measures. The government's financial staff predicts that in some magical way thousands of taxpayers who cannot currently meet their obligations will recover within 2021 and will be able to fulfil their obligations both from 2020 until today and their new obligations on a daily basis. It provides for the termination of bridge programmes for borrowers and at the same time provides for great increases in direct and indirect taxes. How will this revenue come after the wage reductions recently imposed by the government on the new private sector and the stagnation it provides for in the salaries of civil servants and pensions? The government predicts an increase in income taxes by 45.73% from 2021 to 2025. It provides that taxes on personal income will be increased within three years by 31.73% with frozen pensions and salaries of civil servants and wage reductions for private sector workers who will lose incomes from unpaid overtime and lose the possibility of a second job while being paid for part of their work on a day-to-day basis. At the same time, it provides for an increase of 145.21% of corporation taxes and other legal persons. With hundreds of small and medium-sized enterprises threatened today with a hammering, the government provides for an unrealistic increase in corporate tax revenues. The government also provides for an increase in revenue from indirect taxes of 22.4% over a three-year period, noting that the public's available income is falling daily because of the government policy that we are experiencing and an extreme recession that affects consumption first of all. The government's ambitions continue with its nominal GDP forecasts, which it says will increase by 26.1%. All this impressive GDP growth will come from the private economy, after public pensions and wages remain, according to its forecasts, at the same level as today. There is also provision for an increase in investment by 30.3% only for 2022. What are these investments, really, and these investors waiting in 2022 to put so much money into the Greek market and the Greek economy? The government's not revealing it to us. Are the bulldozers going into the Greek? Even with these elements and forecasts, which are clearly based on the wishes of the financial staff, the deep disrespect of the New Democracy for the social state is revealed. Despite the glossful growth provided by the government, state expenditure on health, education and social transfers is dramatically reduced in terms of GDP, but is also reduced in absolute numbers, although the State's revenues are projected to rise appall. In particular, the health ministry's expenditure ceilings are reduced by EUR 106 million from 2022 to 2025, despite the fact that, throughout the world, they recognise the need to strengthen public health systems, while from 2021 to 2022, the government provides for lowering costs by another EUR 100 million. In education with huge deficits and gaps in education, the government provides for a 350 million euro cut. I would like to stress the following: Firstly, it is clear that these forecasts are not correct. They shall not respond to the data and shall be reviewed at least before it is completed in 2021. Secondly, it is now self-evident that the New Democracy, whatever development is achieved after the pandemic, does not intend to make any intervention so that the outcome of this development can be fairly distributed to society. The Government of New Democracy, faithful to the doctrines that led us to bankruptcy, brings this bill and emphasises that profits will concern the few, while instead the damages of any crisis will again be called upon to pay for them by the people and the vast majority of the world. The resources of the Recovery Fund relate to the vast majority of small and medium-sized enterprises having access to the loan, of course unlike the vast majority of small and medium-sized enterprises that are excluded, for good reasons, from bank lending. The expected growth after the pandemic, which certainly cannot catch up to the outrage rate foreseen by the government's financial staff, is of real minor importance, since the government wants to keep the nominal wages of the private sector frozen, while the facilities and arrangements it offers in the capital reduces the total wages of workers and increases profitability, particularly of large companies. The Greek people can now clearly see the big differences between the two models of governance. We, as SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, propose a government plan for sustainable relaunching the Greek economy, support for the social state, protection of work, social justice, which will ensure that everyone has a share in development just as they had in successive economic crises. We claim, together with the workers, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, farmers, farmers, civil servants, new jobs, better wages and pensions, lower living costs and increased consumption of Greek production products. The new Republic seeks to make richer and poorer and more poorer. We are struggling for society as a whole to live with dignity, to be able to maintain their properties and increase them, to open new better roads and prospects for our youth. The New Democracy plans to concentrate the country's rich production sources on the hands of a few, plans to close small and medium-sized enterprises and concentrate all activities on the hands of a few, the loss of even the first and only residence for thousands of Greek households. The New Democracy has not understood anything either from the country's bankruptcy, from the memorials, or from the new economic and social crisis caused by the pandemic. He promises a new, even more violent transfer of wealth into the hands of a few. SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance promises fair economic and social reconstruction involving the entire country and the Greek region. We are committed to a substantial transition to a functional, fair and sustainable Greece that is converging with developed European countries with stability, produce quality products and services and builds on the value and competence of our country's human resources. In conclusion, I would like to make a little reference to this truly shameful attempt to extract, buy and bribe the essence of our youth consciousness. I appreciate and believe that the proposal as tabled by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis in relation to youth is an insult to our political system and our citizens as a whole. I should just like to try to convince society to be vaccinated to build the necessary wall of immunity and to enter such reasonable and practical practices that do not really have any place in democracy. This characterizes the government and personally as to how it sees democracy and freedom in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u303	The New Democracy MP, Mr Philippos Loading for seven minutes, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u304	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a lot from the Civic Opposition, and we have heard these sad words from the previous speaker. There is bilingualism in Opposition and especially in Civics. And, of course, we've got press-type phenomena, Polakis. Since you yourself have not solved them, I think it is right to solve them and have a common component for both vaccinations and all of them and not to have bilingualism yet on a major topic such as health for both Greece and the country. Now we're going to this bill. We are towards the end of the pandemic, but also at the end of a long economic crisis. So our country has, in these years, been tested, struggling, hurt, fought, but it has not put it down and we are now stronger, more aware and more determined. The provisions of this draft law therefore lay down the medium-term financial framework for the years 2022-2025 and its pages set out the long-term objectives, the expenditure framework and, in general, the country's budgetary path for the years to come. It is very important that such voices are heard in Parliament. In the present provisions, therefore, all programming and the objectives set by the Government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis for the substantial recovery and the total return of the country to growth rates are apparent. So from the outset, as a government, we have set a number of key objectives that were the country's recovery, increasing investment, but also revenues, reducing unemployment, but also debt, improving economic indicators and, of course, reforms to improve the quality of life and the everyday life of our fellow citizens. Many of these objectives have already been achieved, but will also be completed in the next few years, with the growth rate being doubled for 2022, from 3.6% today to 6.2%, by reducing unemployment by five points, by increasing exports and investment - as we have heard a number of times before and I will return to it - by creating new jobs in the public and private sectors, which you have demonised. The next four years will be closed with a positive sign for our country, and this is the result of very hard work and effort, both on the part of our government and, of course, from society itself. But it is regrettable that opposition today is going to vote against this bill in principle. This, of course, does not surprise us, especially in the Civic Opposition, since we have become accustomed to opposed to any reform, any attempt to develop and restore the country. We are not afraid to dare, ladies and gentlemen. The Greek people have given us the mandate to implement our election commitments. And that's exactly what we're doing today. The results of this effort are also on the pages of this bill. They are in the vertical growth of investment by 30.3%. They are in debt reduction. They are found in the increase in private consumption. They are in reducing unemployment. They are also found to increase revenues from privatisation due to a great increase in investment. Ladies and gentlemen, we are proud that despite the difficulties we have faced because of the pandemic, despite the ten-year economic crisis which has troubled our country, we have resisted and strengthened our economy, and now we can talk about increasing GDP almost every other country within the Eurozone, but also more than the average of the world economy in the years 2021-2022. At this point, let us say that much of the development impetus will come from both the EIP and, of course, from the Community's resources, namely the Recovery Fund, but also from the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027. This is all based on absorption, which is very important and is the time-consuming problem for the Greek state, and it is also a bet on the present government. The growth and stable growth of the country and of the economy will restore the debt to a stable degression track. We can be sure that in 2023 we will return to a primary surplus, and we will be able to support households even further, but also companies with reduced taxes, as well as contributions that will contribute to the development of businesses and give a great deal of economic breath to our fellow citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, in these two years of governance, we have shown that we have a vision for the country and we want it to be appropriate and that we are making every effort to do this, in contrast to you, ladies and gentlemen, of the Major Anti-Population, where all you are doing is to develop a rhetoric against evolution, against progress, against growth and, of course, against investment. After all, you and your political camp have put a brake on the productive powers of this place for thirty years, preventing any new investment, because you say it is a good thing for the profits of capital. When with various environmental pretexts, when with archaeologically, when with anti-capitalist as the KKE claims or with various bureaucratic tricks, you have been blocking the productive forces of the country all these years and destroying the country's productive base. However, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people have commanded us to bring the country back to development to rationalise structures and strengthen the economy, promote investment and carry out innovative reforms. So this bet is a day-to-day bet, and with these goals we will continue our governance. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, too, for the consistency in time. Please settle the Step in order to get the floor for the MP of the Change Movement Mr.Kingeroglou for seven minutes. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u306	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my position with a clear message to the citizens, to all those who so far have not been convinced that they should be vaccinated. Let them speak with their doctor, let them listen to scientists, let them read valid texts and opinions. They should be vaccinated. There is no serious documentation from any point of view that says otherwise. It's for themselves and not for the vaccinated. It's for them and their families, for the children. So let us not let problems arise, spend time without bringing about results, because there are many mistakes and omissions, but that is not an alibi to anyone. We must therefore move forward and I particularly address my compatriots in Crete, which will indeed give us more opportunity to talk about a safe Crete in a period of tourism that, if there are other conditions, can also be strengthened by this. Ladies and gentlemen, we have seen a controversy today. We saw the Civic Opposition refer to things that the government and the government did not make to respond: "But you too did not do so in the previous four and a half years that you have ruled." There is no alibi for either side or the other. What we need is to see how we can best use the huge potential that the country has today in relation to what was in 2009. There are huge opportunities because it has the prerequisites and support of the European Union. About a hundred million is available for the next period up to seven years. It is not just the Recovery Fund, it is the current NSRF, the new NSRF, European initiatives, the National Development Programme is 94 billion together with the Common Agricultural Policy. This, of course, is a very important condition to talk about optimistic scenarios. And, of course, the political transformation of assessments, findings and economic potential in an implementation programme is a very serious job that I believe has not been done. It's not done. Otherwise, we would not have had the phenomenon of the Minister of Development talking about bankruptcy from here on the Step and at the same time the government talking about growth of 3.6%. I believe that the country's potential is much more than 3.6% with a different scenario, with a different policy, with a different development framework. Unfortunately, the Government, as did the Recovery Fund, proceeded to the Medium-term without having formulated its vision, the complete design it needs. And here I would like to point out that the medium-term institution has been set up so that the countries can plan, from 2011 onwards on medium-term programming, and, of course, in the context of the long-term objectives, we can achieve a continuous four-year programming that will be adapted to the time and ensure the continuity, continuity and interaction of annual budgets. Unfortunately, he was deported. In 2018 and 2019, SYRIZA did not submit a medium-term programme, as it did not want the situation of the coming years to be evidently reflected due to the election period. In 2019 the same thing happened. The New Democracy after the elections did not want to renegotiate SYRIZA's unacceptable terms and commitments, such as the primary surplus of 3.5%, the mortgage of public property in the supermarket for ninety years. He did not want to renegotiate the rescheduling of the first home and did not deposit in the medium term, because that was the negotiation. The same happened in 2020. You hid behind the pandemic, Minister, and you did not present a comprehensive plan for the country. So why should both SYRIZA and you have no statement of the medium-term that you had to make? We reacted on 18 November 2020. With a timely question, we have asked for a medium-term programme which, together with the national plan and the Recovery Fund, would meet the needs of the times and society. Today we are faced with uncertainty - it is certain - because of the lack of a sturdy and after consulting a comprehensive plan. While we have these very large sums available from the European Union and from own resources, at the same time there is uncertainty. That's a political matter. This uncertainty cannot be changed, can only be addressed by communications policies. It needs a different way of responding. It needs a programme that has objectives on the basis of a new production model. The Change Movement consulted on the basis of the Recovery Fund throughout the country through the difficult conditions of the pandemic and we worked on the preparation of a new development and productive model with key pillars of sustainable development, social justice, the Green Social Convention that focuses on the environment, man and tool to digital transition, digital transformation, so that we can not just raise with some targets numerically the rate of growth to 1%, 2%, 3% or even 5%, but to take off the country. And we can do this with the reopening and after the crisis, because these conditions have not been again. And it will really be a great failure if there are such low rates. Well, we're not talking about Mr. Georgian threats that we'll have bankruptcy. But the samples aren't good, and you should have worried. You have spent 41 billion so far to deal with the pandemic and its effects on the economy and society, one of the highest rates in the European Union as a percentage of GDP, and the results are poor at the same time. It is 32% above the European Union average, the recession in our country in 2020. Poverty is expanding, extreme poverty is taking explosive proportions - and we are talking about people who have incomes under 180 euros of extreme poverty - social inequalities are actually exacerbated, many social groups remain out of support. There are four hundred thousand long-term unemployed. They weren't backed up. There are pensioners without pension. There was no interest in it. But also businesses, professionals, productive units, people who have fought all this time have not had the support of the workers. Unemployment - says - has fallen. The real situation in unemployment is not reflected in the fact that workers on suspension and repression are not recorded in unemployment and, on the other hand, the dramatic increase in non-economic activities in relation to those employed shows a virtual decline. It is therefore important that we take into account what we have to take into account. Mistakes in design and inaction are not justified. It is time to complete this coherent planning to bring the results we want.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u307	Finish, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u308	And I close by saying a word about the social state in the ESS. In a dramatic way, the pandemic has spoken to us about the regeneration of the ESS and, more generally, about policies that must focus on humans and you have left the public health system last in the priorities. You are recycling contractors and assistants, as did the previous government, and you do not go through the resources available, even though Europe has priority over the Recovery Fund. But you have left last to give a priority for the regeneration of the National Health System as an investment for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u309	And we thank Mr. Kegeroglu. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Yiannis Burnus for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u310	Thank you, Mr President. A Medium-term Financial Framework has the usefulness of giving an overall picture to better understand the designs and intentions of a government. It lights what your government hides behind the propaganda orchid. We now agree that Greece in 2020 had the third biggest recession in the European Union, 8.2%. Fortunately, as you indirectly admit, the economy left by the government of SYRIZA had more resistance to the range of bankruptcy than the economy before the memorials. But you have not exploited this durability and the extremely favourable access to the markets that the government of Alexis Tsipras has made. You did not use it to support the economy as much as you had to and avoid degrading. And this shows the very poor sizes of real liquidity, 8 billion in 2020 and 11 billion in 2021, and the experience of too many businesses and professionals excluded from many aids, so that we do not catch the four hundred thousand long-term unemployed left to their black luck. And you dare talk about reducing unemployment when hundreds of thousands of people were out of the labour market because of the pandemic. Two hundred thousand less employed we have. We returned to 2016. In these circumstances, you have chosen - not to forget - to discourage recruitment and to encourage more unpaid and cheaper hours. We left you both unprecedented cash reserves and unprecedented low borrowing rates to get to listen again and again in the pandemic Adoni Georgiadis to say in an immoral sense that we have no money, you will go bankrupt. Money, of course, to fly into channels and phones, direct assignments, wages of days and Golden boys were abundant. It could be formulated more frankly by the Minister: 'There is no money for you, you will go bankrupt'! Now that your ideas globally seem not only wrong but increasingly obsolete, you should at least schedule direct support for the economy for real relaunching, the immediate relaunch and not the medium-term recovery that you hope to achieve with the funds of the Recovery Fund, that is to say, those that you will distribute to the timeless fewers and the big businesses with the CEO that the Prime Minister is crushing, deceiving us that they will set their prosperity down from above. Only 5% of the Greek businesses are worthy of the money the banks say. We all understand what will happen in the coming years, especially with the fund funds that will all go through from the banks. At first you were expecting growth of 7% this year. Then review to 4.8%, now to 3.6% and push the development explosion next year. The forecasts are not easy. But it would be better if you did not foresee what you lack from the equation. Because first you're making the budget targets, and then you're looking for what growth you have to get out of the number. For those who expect growth and prosperity, we see in the medium term what awaits them: Reinstate the Stability Pact on German terms, immediately reinstate austerity and huge surpluses, 2% in 2023 and 2.8% in 2024. You will thus accept without reaction the reintroduction of the draconian terms of the Stability Pact that will mark a new memorandum. You tell us that from a deficit of 7.1% this year we will go to +2% in two years. In other words, an additional 16 billion will come out of a dry economy and enter state funds. You seek an increase of 28% of tax revenue, when households and businesses will try to pay back obligations that have accumulated in the pandemic to stand on their feet. And that could be something to hope for, but if you take care of immediate dynamic relaunching and the juncture favoured you, so that we can achieve a great increase in consumption, tourism, exports and so on. There's none of this. There are only ideas to unleash every protection setting of the weakest that bothers your friends. You have found an opportunity at such a depressing juncture to worsen the lives of the wage earners and pass the immediate liquidation of the bankrupt ones. You have also found an opportunity to make fun of voters promising tax evasions. You and your television receive permanent tax reductions in the medium term when you abolish all tax evasion and aid, apart from one, the reduction in corporate taxation. Already in 2022 and 2023 remove VAT, reductions in contributions, reduction in a special solidarity contribution, a total of 65 support measures. You invest every hope in the explosion of investment by 30% when in the European Union, which will also come out of a deep recession and thirst for investment, predict an increase rate of 5%! And here you go with the fantasies of Trickle Down's finances, that if you dismantle the labour market and household property, investors will run! The crows will run as well as parasitic entrepreneurship. The doctrine with which you are moving is self-regulation and deregulation. It's the magical thought of neoliberals that after all, if everyone takes care of themselves and if you take care of the richest, we'll have growth. It calls on Mr. Georgiadis to be matured by mocking bankers who borrow to reopen their shops and who have the government to blame them for lazy and bad professionals. You dream of economic recovery through the disintegration of society, but society will answer you when it comes to time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u311	Thank you, Mr Burnus, and the consistency in time. I would like to make a statement to this House. The Minister for Economic Development and Investment, Labour and Social Affairs, Home Affairs, State and Deputy Ministers for Finance and Foreign Affairs, as well as the Deputy Minister to the Prime Minister, submitted on 1 July 2021 a draft law: ‘(a) Incorporation into Greek law of certain articles in Directives (EU) 2017/2455, (EU) 2019/1995 and (EU) 2018/1910 as regards obligations arising from value-added tax for services and sales of goods remotely and related to it’ - (b) Amendments to Law 4649/2019 ‘Support programme for the provision of securities to credit institutions’ (A’ 206), under C(2021) 2545/09.04.2021 (021/N) of the European Commission’s approval decision to extend the programme ‘RAKLIS’ - (c) Provisions for the adjustment of debts and the provision of a second opportunity - Amendments Nos 4738/20 and other provisions’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The speaker of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Mr Yiannis Gioulas, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u312	In our country, according to the saying of an old experienced politician, it has been said ever since, that when numbers prosper, people are unhappy. At this point in time, because there is a dystocia with numbers, the economic planning authorities have discovered the indicators of the economic situation, economic climate indicators, business expectations indicators in various sectors of the economy and consumer confidence indicators. It's like a divination. In fact, it is of doubtful value short-term and vaguely evaluated data, which more subjective estimates echo and corresponding intentions betray. A scenario whereby the country enters a surplus production line from 2023, with the cubic being arbitrarily and willingly placed with your will, is adopted to 2% of GDP, which is gradually 2.8% for 2024, 3.7% in 2025, which even exceeds the commitment to the Institutions with a surplus of 2.2% of GDP. It is well known that, for the current year and next year, the general escape clause is in place, which makes it possible to deviate from strict budgetary rules. Since 2023, however, headlines have been reintroduced and on heavier terms this time, but also more burdensome taxes, given that the level of adjustment reaches 16 billion euros. Forgive me, but these are drawings on paper and brain constructions that are not based at all on safe data, but are serving your account that Greece is returning rapidly to normality. Thus, you have arbitrarily determined a primary surplus of 2% for 2023 and there has been a pro-active growth of between 3.5% and 4.7%, with the slightest consequence of tax evaporation from 24.46 billion in 2020 to 28.60 billion in 2022 and then an annual growth of approximately 2 billion in the coming years up to 2025, the last year of the time period for this medium-term framework. I shall make another introductory remark. I take the floor from your reference to the country's confidence, both in the markets and among its partners and creditors, as reflected in the interest rates of Greek bonds currently in historically low prices as you are getting. Often, even in your public speech, political officials are not able to compare themselves with the percentages of about 3% of our country's first attempt to exit immediately after the memorials and the lower percentage of recent ten-year bonds that reached about 1%. We must therefore respond to your self-sufficient and self-evident logic: firstly, there was the reserve of 37 billion that we secured so that we could go out on the markets without pressure and blackmail. No one's questioning it anymore. A large part of this reserve has even been used to prevent the supernatant pandemic suffering. Secondly, easy and affordable money has been made available, which has rightly been chosen by the European Central Bank, because otherwise we would have led to a curse of the weak economic countries. And thirdly, as it says in the chapter on macroeconomic developments, it was particularly important that the PEP - Pandemic Energy Purchase Programme - because the expansionist monetary policy, as has been said, retained the yields of state securities at low levels and provided cheap funding to all countries - members of the euro area - making an effective contribution to reducing the effects of pandemic. You didn't make any kind of a felony. I shall then proceed to some of the key points, in my opinion, concerning major issues concerning the Greek economy. Firstly, the recession was shaped for 2020 in our country at 8.2%. It is one of the highest percentages of the euro area, lower than in Spain of 10.85% and Italy of 8.9% and slightly higher than 7.6% of Portugal, but clearly above the average of the euro area, which was 6.6%. Secondly, the reduction in the rate of pay and of the average salary, which in your view fell marginally by 0.9% compared to the corresponding rate of 2019. It's another case that you're trying to do black white. The bitter truth of poverty experienced the workers themselves and the other categories of employees with the special hunger payments of EUR 534 and the corresponding cuts in Easter and Christmas gifts. Thirdly, the increase in the bank deposits of non-financial corporations by 9.1 billion has been exaggerated on your part and, on this basis, you conclude that there has been liquidity channelled by government support measures. However, the truth, ladies and gentlemen, and I think you know it, all the financial pages state it is that only 15,000 to 25,000 large companies in Greece have access to bank funding of over 840,000. Mr Constantine Michalos, who is not, I imagine, Mr SYRIZA, made this point yesterday, saying that thousands of small and very small enterprises have a direct and a great need for liquidity. And it is not accidental and pleasant for us that the Minister, Mr. He tried to persuade the banks to make available from the pool of 12 billion of the Development Fund, but unfortunately we did not work. It's coming back for July 15th. However, banks claim that 60% of enterprises do not meet the loan criteria and a 15% more do not have sufficient guarantees. So who's taking the loans, ladies and gentlemen? Fourthly, it is ironic that your finding, both in the first and second Lockdowns, that the immediate short-term measures have covered as much as possible all those affected in economic life as possible: employees, professionals, unemployed, farmers and borrowers. This post of the curated allowance is answered by the professionals who danced with "Skoil Elikos", the unemployed who turned their backs, the farmers who buried their crop and the small businessmen who closed the door to them and therefore consider it to be challenging and insulting. We are not the ones who are destroying, social strata, society itself. Fifth, the public debt was about 206%. What else can I say? No comments. Maybe we're the third country on the planet. Sixth, your forecasts that tourist receipts from abroad will be reduced by 3.7 billion or 87.1% compared to the corresponding 2020 rate, probably with obvious concern and pessimism are collected by industry entrepreneurs. You have again made a mistake in the reception of customers, tourists, guests, without preparation at the entrances and compliance with absolute health conditions. Repeat your same evil yourself in 2020. It is not possible to rejoice. We must, however, appreciate and pay tribute to what we have to do. This is what the entrepreneurs, the workers, the poor and the populace will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u313	And we thank Mr. Giola. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mrs Stergianis Biziou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u314	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after a decade of a tough fiscal crisis Greece at last in the summer of 2019 had a vision of growth prospects and prosperity through the economic planning of the New Democracy. However, the coronary pandemic has taken on board and created obstacles to the realisation of our reform and development programme and has brought us into the face of enormous challenges at social and economic level. In this environment of global uncertainty and instability, Greece has not only retreated, but strengthened its image and its dynamics. From the very beginning of the health crisis, it has been vital for us, for our Government, to protect the critical sectors of our economy, our assets, our technology and our infrastructure, especially jobs and workers. Despite the negative circumstances, the government did not slow down its reform programme, but continued to implement key structural changes. Reductions in taxes, the introduction of tax incentives, arrangements for private debt, privatizations, the exploitation of public property, the digital transformation of the state and electronic transactions, changes in education, health enhancement, interventions in the energy market are a series of reforms that have been implemented in the midst of a pandemic and are today the basis for our country's development planning. Despite the health crisis, we have proceeded with fundamental economic and social reforms in order to be ready for the moment of re-launching and we have been entitled to this option. The commitment to our reform programme has been justified by the confidence shown in Greece by international markets and investors. Greece has raised from the markets, since July 2019, a total of EUR 27.5 billion, of which EUR 21 billion, during the pandemic, with extremely favourable conditions and with historically low interest rates. International markets have shown confidence in the recovery and prospects of the Greek economy. The consolidation of trust in the Greek economy also confirmed by the rating house "STANDARD & POOR'S", which, in the mid-term, upgraded our country's creditworthiness, which is expected to return to the category of eligible countries eligible for investment in the first half of 2023. For many years Greece's GDP per capita has been below the Eurozone average by about 43%. It doesn't have to be an economist to understand why. The reason for the divergence, the reason why we are lagging behind in our European partners is a lack of investment. With investments amounting to 10% of GDP in Greece compared to 21% of the average of the euro area, it is not a question of wondering why we are facing unemployment problems, reduced incomes and debt growth, private and public. The World Bank figures show that Greece in a total of 190 countries was in the 79th place in 2019, with regard to ease of investment. Over-taxation of labour and capital in previous years has further burdened the problem and has been another deterrent to remove the prospective investors. Greece, however, needs sustainable investments, competitiveness and expansion of the production base, producing domestic added value. The New Democracy redefines our country's development model by exploiting technology and information technology, human resources and know-how, leaving once and for all the distortions that have led us to the crisis and deep recession. We are setting the foundations for a productive and export economy, with an emphasis on extroversion and competitiveness. An economy that is resistant to shocks that will create good and stable jobs. All this is reflected in our budget strategy programme for the next four years. With a GDP growth rate of 4% for the four years 2021-2025, with an increase in investment and exports by 88% and 43%, respectively, with a reduction in taxes and social security contributions, we are changing the country's development orientation. One of the main budgetary objectives for the next four years is the rapid and effective use of the resources provided by the co-financed programmes. The implementation of the projects of the Recovery and Resilience Fund is a priority for the country, since the National Plan "Greece 2.0" is the vehicle for the transition to a competitive, extroversion economy, green and technologically upgraded. With a view to the green transition, the digital transformation of the state and business, the promotion of research and innovation, the improvement of the effectiveness of the justice system, the promotion of private investment and exports, the increase of jobs and the expansion of participation in the labour market, the modernisation of vocational education and training, social inclusive policies, the Greek Recovery Plan is a holistic, coherent set of reforms and investments that creates the conditions for a economy that is resistant to both external and endogenous turbulence, an economy that protects incomes and employment. The funds to be disbursed over the next four years in the context of the Recovery and Resilience Plan exceed EUR 30 billion, while the funds raised by the private sector reach 59 billion euros. The planning of the programme shall ensure effective and rapid absorption of this money. The country has no room to spread to the mistakes of the past that have led us to this profound economic and social crisis. In the New Democracy we are determined not to let the development train get past us. By exploiting all available resources and by involving forces from the public and private sectors, we ensure that the country moves to a prosperity tomorrow, with sustainable, green and social fair, inclusive. Ladies and gentlemen, the post-Koronian era is certainly a time of challenges, but it is also a time of opportunities. We believe in Greece, believe in its prospect and face the unprecedented challenge of the health crisis as an opportunity to create a better and more hopeful future for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u315	We too thank Mrs Biziu and the consistency in time. We continue with SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance, Ms. Sultana Eleftheriadou, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by addressing an issue, which is of course the Ministry of Labour, but for reasons that I will describe very much the Ministry of Economy and the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u317	Just don't ask for an extension of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u318	No, I'll just say something. The cube was thrown! Today, therefore, the Higher Labour Council was set up in a House for the first time and looked at the first group redundancies. On this premiere did who else? Laurentis Laurentiadis. And while the redundant thirty employees met today with Mr. Mitsotakis in Xanthi and Mr. Mitsotakis promised them that he would personally deal with the matter and give a solution, Mrs. With enormous courage, within the limits of irrationality, assisted by BSE and other representatives of the employer, as a member of the Higher Council of Labour today, he has done everything to facilitate Mr Laurentiadis in the collective redundancies he plans to do. And who did he find across the street? Well, he found the workers, he means he doesn't care about them, of course. But he found the representative at the Ministry of Finance's Supreme Labour Council. Mrs Pandora Syros - her excellent and well done and congratulations! - the Commission has put forward a non-legislative proposal, by Mrs Hübner. The Ministry of Labour against the Ministry of Finance! That was the picture, ladies and gentlemen, today at the first meeting of the Higher Labour Council. That was the picture, and that proves that Mrs. Hurricane is completely outlawed in the interest of Mr. Laurentiadis. He's breaking the law, breaking the procedure. I denounce it and ask your Ministry to get information from his member at the Supreme Labour Council and to settle what has happened. Because this is a flagrant violation of labour law and collective redundancies law, which you throw into SYRIZA, but ultimately not the law, it is the people who interpret it and apply it wrongly. And that was understood today by your representative, your ministry, at the meeting of the Higher Council of Labour. And I come to the medium-term for bringing you to the vote. Firstly, the bill has not been consulted. You have invented it yourself, you have imagined, you have tabled it, you will vote on your own, and of course you will remodel it yourself again, like the 2021 budget, because it is the whole of a list. Blessed is the return to the high surpluses without voting, bringing economic restrictions for the next few years to what is about taking positive measures for the economy. Blessed is the provision for a one-digit percentage of non-performing loans, red loans in the following year. Blessed is that GDP will increase this year by 3.6% and then by 6.2% in 2020 and so on. Blessed is that private investment will increase this year by 7% and will go up to 30.3% in 2022, when Europe's average is 5% and, of course, investments will continue to increase in some magic way. Briefly, unemployment will deviate at the same time as, for over twelve months, registered unemployed in the OAED are one million, the same time in the first quarter of 2021, unemployment has increased by 0.9% and has now reached 17.1%. Blessed is the anticipated explosive increase in tax revenue by 28%, as if the overdue households, as if the affected small and medium-sized enterprises were suddenly going to win the lottery all of a sudden, or as a miracle, will find the economic potential and survive and pay their due and current tax debts. The truth is that you are abolishing all the inadequate support measures and the limited tax relief that you have received so far. You remove the reduction in the special contribution of solidarity, VAT reductions in specific items. Remove special-purpose allowances and all the other sixty-five inadequacies, for which I do not have time to analyse, which you have brought in recent years. You bring additional taxes directly and indirectly, EUR 12.6 billion, you increase the income tax by 50.5% in 2025 compared to 2021 and of course you strengthen the wealthy, strengthen the large assets and strengthen the large businesses. The time of truth, however, ladies and gentlemen, has arrived. The bankruptcy law that will start to apply, the employment abortion you brought to the vote a few weeks ago, the insurance bill that you gamble on the insurance contributions of the insured, and indeed the impunity for those who manage between 49 and 78 billion euros, the increase in energy, in food, in fuel has become a nightmare for the small and medium-sized enterprises. The world has now realised that you are feeding him optimism to manipulate him and this time you will not be saved either by the nationalist crowns, by the threats and blackmails of Adonis Georgiadis and Aki Skertsos, or by course by the native mirrors of 150 euros with which you have tried to buy our young people. He won't save you anything. Very soon the people will give you their answer to everything you bring to a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u319	We also thank Mrs Eleftheriadou for the consistency in time. We continue with the MP of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Mr. Nektarios Santorinios.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin with the measures announced today on the move to and from the islands, because they are essentially a complete confession of the failure of your health plan for the islands. Going to the islands now requires a PCR test or Rapid test, and this shows that an additional problem arises in domestic tourism.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u321	Extremely vaccination requires vaccination.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u322	Yeah and PCR test and the rest. There is a problem, therefore, in internal tourism, at the same time as the fact that tourism from outside is not yet available. But what's the worst? That to come back from the islands only self-test is needed. Do you know why? Why you have not made sure you make a network that makes PCR test and rapid test on the islands, especially on the small islands, but even on the large islands. And that's exactly why you're making this separation. Because you are basically confessing that you have failed what we have been calling you for months. Do a sufficient network, because it will also be necessary for tourists coming from abroad. And tell me, how are you gonna send them back, self-test or stay in here? Now I'll go to the bill. The explanatory statement would say that it is revealing in relation to what you did and the way you operated the pandemic in 2020 and 2021. It's revealing that you're lying to us to support the economy. You resort to creative accounts to tell us that you gave 41 billion euros to the economy in 2020 and 2021, 41 billion euros that the workers have not seen. Even today the people of the focus are waiting to see the re-start money that took place in May. People haven't seen them yet. And what's the reality? The liquidity provided by you has barely reached EUR 8.6 billion in 2020 and will probably reach EUR 12.2 billion in 2021. And why am I saying that? Because if you read carefully the tables you have given, Table 18, while the expenditure is EUR 13.8 billion, you told us 24 for 2020 and EUR 12.2 billion for 2021, we will see that that is where the repayable advance, which is not a subsidy, is a loan. So what's going to happen? Will people return it or won't people return it? We need to know what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u323	You know very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u324	We don't know. You tell people what's going to happen, because they still haven't received any revenue, and soon they're gonna start paying the refunds. You are even covering health costs because of a pandemic in there and you say that you have given these to businesses, while you have arranged in 2021 to reduce hospital budgets. Includes the cost of emergency health personnel, recruitment in the means of transport. That's what you tell them you gave. Are these subsidies and aids to the economy? Even the promotional expenditure of the EOT you have put in to reach this creative accounting and instruments you also include the TPIX loans and the other loans of banks that are loans from the banks. As you know, companies had no access, only the few and the chosen ones had access to these loans. Even in the programmes of the regions, for example in the southern Aegean, NISIDA, even there the big companies took. Small businesses stayed out. I would particularly like to refer to the line you are talking about on the coastline. EUR 53 million for 2020 and EUR 30 million for 2021. The money of 2021, Minister, the shipowners still haven't seen it. You owe them EUR 70 million from the emergency aid and from the barren lines. Do you know what that means? That many ferry companies, especially small companies, have a lack of liquidity. Soon we'll have a problem on the barren lines, now in the summer. People won't be able to put oil on. Will you give them the money? As for 2020, the way money was shared is not the best. I will give you a simple example: Thera - Heraklion - The fastest December month of these 53 billion euros you gave the economy. You tell me when it took such a route! There has never been a free route, and yet you have subsidised it, and I will also give you the relevant press release I had made with other lines respectively. Workers, in particular seasonal workers, who are not hotel workers, did not see any suspension grant. Do you know why? Because companies that worked were not judged to be seasonal. The medium term is revealing your intention to stop support measures in 2022. It was said by previous speakers. As if there will be no need for the economy in 2022. It's like all of a sudden, they'll come back to normality. And the fact that from the primary deficit this year at 7% we go to the 2% surplus in 2023 creates a 16 billion-dollar gap. It was said before. How are you going to cover it? With the abolition of all tax evasion and an increase in tax revenue by 28%. How will this development run? You have the answer. It will become a record of 30% investments when the pace in the euro area is 5%. Unless, Minister, even if you consider the sale of businesses that will not be able to withstand the crows coming from the outside. Or the sale of infrastructure such as the sale of the ports you are preparing for regional ports. You plan to reduce unemployment when the anti-government bills you are voting on exactly the opposite do. They create a reduction in jobs. Where's that prediction? It is a norm that lies in all the financial programmes that says that 100,000 euros creates a job. And so, in an accounting way, you have created two hundred thousand jobs. Well done, you make them very nice. As far as development is concerned, Mr Stavros has caused us to be a question. Tourism opened on 14 May. Today, the fullities in the tourist areas that mainly come tourists from abroad are less than 20%. Our country is in the orange of Britain when competing countries, such as the Balearic Islands and Malta, are on the green list. Germany's insistence on quarantine will create many conflicts and many problems since July. How do you really see the development that you are evangelizing will be supported? [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] I would just like to refer to the Ministry of Shipping, Mr President. Especially at the Ministry of Shipping, the Public Investment Project has a big puzzle. It starts from 140 million and ends in 2025 to 105 million. What the Ministry of Shipping has to pay from the Public Investment Programme is: transport equivalent of 157 million. We're over it already. Rare lines, 135 million. Port infrastructure, at least 4 million. The Twelve have given us SYRIZA, so much you now say. Projects and actions of the General Secretariat of the Aegean Sea, 5 million. This is more than 300 million. The 105 million what's going to cover all of this? What are you gonna do? Would you cut the transport equivalent, cut off the barren lines? What will you finally do? Why are you lying so much in that medium-term? You have in the reconstruction programme, point 1.3, the green shipping. The budget for green shipping is 350 million. Do you know how much you report inside the shipping department? 15.9 million. What are you going to cover for? Not even the port infrastructure. At least do a favor. We left a second-stage study for green shipping. It remains the third stage of the study. You've predicted a million. At least fund this study. And I believe that the people of shipping will find the way to do it without you because you seem to be not even able to help you either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u325	Thank you, too. We will complete the posts of colleagues with Mr Efstathios Konstantinides from New Democracy. Mr. Constantinidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u326	Thank you very much. Therefore, the debate on the medium-term financial strategy framework according to the requirements and forecasts of L.4270/2014 is complete. Its preparation is essentially a rolling update of the elements of the previous year by adding a new year, so that the annual financial planning is in line with the medium-term. The limits of the expenditure for central government bodies and targets for other general government sectors for the reference period in this case are set for 2022-2025. The country's economic sizes are thus defined in order to achieve sound and adequate management. The Framework 2022-2025 was drawn up in conditions of high and protracted uncertainty due to the pandemic. The unforeseen circumstances forced in March 2020 the Eurozone finance ministers to activate the general escape clause for the years 2020-2021 and then 2022. In other words, the right to take all the measures necessary to support public health, liquidity, employment and social cohesion, with the exception of the restrictions of the Stability Pact. Even in these conditions of fiscal relaxation and in an unfavorable environment, Greece managed to stand upright, maintain and improve its credit image even more. On the one hand, market confidence and, on the other, European support have enabled the government to unfold an unprecedented aid programme of more than 40 billion. At the same time, a National Economic Recovery Plan which is expected to create rapid growth conditions in the years to come. This plan will raise resources of 30.5 billion, which will increase significantly from leverage and create the conditions for a permanent and sustainable transition of the country to a modern and competitive productive model. In this way the economy will soon return to surpluses, but not as a result of suffocating tax burdens but economic growth. The dominant element of the medium-term is investment. The aim is to achieve high and sustainable growth rates so that at the end of 2025 the country's GDP reaches 217 billion from the 165,8 billion where it was found in 2020. In particular, growth rates of 3.6% are forecast for this year, 6.2% for 2022, 4.1% for 2023, 4.4% for 2024 and 3.3% for 2025. While with bazooka the National Recovery Plan, investment in GDP is expected to reach 16.7% in 2025 from 11.1% in 2020. The increase is also predicted for exports by 10.4%, 13.8%, 7.5%, 6.2% and 5.2% for each of the next five years. A similar course for private consumption with an increase of 2.6% for this year, 2.9% for 2022, 2.1% for 2023, 2.8% for 2024 and 2.2% for 2025. Conversely, there is a similar course for unemployment which will be reduced by approximately 30% to 11.1% by 2025. On the basis of these forecasts, primary surpluses of more than 2% are secured after 2023, if there is a gradual decline in public debt from 204,8% of GDP in 2020 to 156,9 in 2025. "The numbers prosper. But the citizens will ask themselves, "I think they are naive. Of course, there is no need to be a guru of macroeconomic and microeconomics to understand that the improvement to this extent of the indicators of growth in investment, exports, employment and consumption, as recorded in the forecasts of all international organisations, will have a great impact on the lives of all citizens. This will occur not in the distant future, but directly as the balance of adverse and favourable factors tends to be the most positive during the year despite the problems of international tourist movements. Risks and safety, of course, do not exist, with pandemic and mutations first. But the global vaccination programme restricts the threat. In addition to pandemic, external risks always concern geopolitical instability, refugee - immigration for our country and international inflationist tendencies or pressures. Internal challenges include the progress of reforms, the reorganisation of private debt, support for employment and the insurance funds, which have had a lack of pandemic mediation and the absorption of resources allocated from the various sources, such as the Recovery Fund, the NSRF and the Fair Transition Fund, in particular for western Macedonia and the Regional Unit of Kozani. In the public sector, over 2021-2025 there are over a hundred thousand recruitments and seventy-four thousand departures, since there may be legal decisions, so rule one goes down in this case and where needs exist, namely education, safety and health, there will also be more predictions, in other words, greater predictions. Finally, on condition that the objective of primary surpluses after 2022 can be set at 2.2% of GDP, a budget space will then arise for further reductions in taxes and tax benefits, but that is fully dependent on the development process. In addition to the above, the objectives of this plan are to exit enhanced supervision in 2022, to acquire an investment grade in 2023 and to achieve a one-digit rate of non-performing loans in 2024. Those who believe in the country's potential work towards achieving the above objectives, for the sake of all Greeks and all Greeks. Others are engaged in disaster scenarios. The weather is near. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u327	Thank you. Now we're going to the secondary cycle for any of the special speakers and rapporteurs who want it. We'll start with Mr. Arsenis from Merra25 for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u328	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we have analysed very much - and in the speeches of the MPs of Mera25 - how much you are bringing us is a package of a new memorandum. You proceed to extreme privatizations, even the water of Thessaloniki and Athens, which the Council of State twice considered not to be for sale, proceed to extreme tax increases to the weaker layers, 10 billion, 16% or more of the tax revenue for the period 2019-2025, when the growth is below 4% on the basis of your own calculations. Therefore, it does not result from growth. It results from the increase in taxation in the weaker strata, because we are talking about increasing taxation, despite 20% of indirect taxes and over 30% of natural persons' taxes, and this is not about companies. At the same time as increasing taxation, you are moving on to the strangulation of the private economy. From where you were committed to negotiating to finish these bloody things at some point - as you said, your government and Mr Mitsotakis - surpluses. Now, in the medium term, you're increasing them. Instead of 2.2% surplus, you reach 3.7% for 2025. The surpluses are deficits from the private sector, they are money that you will get from the citizens, from small businesses, and you will not pay it to society. These are the surpluses. If this combination of suffocation for small entrepreneurship and households, even greater overtaxation, but also extreme privatizations, is not a memorial, then add your labour and bankruptcy law together and it is. You have committed yourself to making a fiscal adjustment, namely the multibillion-dollar deficits, to convert them into primary surpluses, greater than your governments have done in previous memoranda. What's coming is dramatic. Of course, you continue to rely on other calculations on irresponsible assumptions, having anticipated for this year's growth of 3.6% on the basis that you will have tourism at 15 million arrivals, 50% falling compared to 2019, a large increase compared to 2020, when no one, but no businessman, shares this optimism in the tourism sector. No one in the world shares it, much less now that there is a new coronary mutation, but that was before the medium-term statement to the House. We call on you to come back to reality and stop your strategy of closing and failing small and medium-sized enterprises and families.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u329	Thank you. The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Diamanto Manolakos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u330	Both the Minister, Mr Staikoras and the Deputy Minister, have shown us that by 2025 heaven is waiting for us. High growth, reduction of unemployment, reduction of taxes, utilization of public property, etc. But you admit there are uncertainties. In the same way, it was expressed, for uncertainties, by the State Budget Office in Parliament. Of course, it continued that, for this year, there is a clear deterioration in the budget forecasts for both macroeconomic and budgetary figures. And they analyse the risks that remain active. But also the reduction of taxes, who is concerned mainly, because for natural persons taxes are increasing? Therefore, for business groups, taxes are being reduced, they are the beneficiaries, they are rejoicing and enjoying it. People's strata is coming tax-free. Why is the New Democracy Government today implementing an expansive policy, although state support is against its ideology? Because it has now become a basic choice for important Member States of the European Union and not only. Furthermore, this intrinsic uncertainty and financial and budgetary consequences have led European institutions to the decision to apply, for the first time since 2011, the general escape clause in the budgets of the Member States of the euro area. In other words, there is no commitment to surpluses in 2020 and 2021 and it was also decided on 2022. What does that mean? That the country in 2023 will be under enhanced supervision for surplus production. Therefore, the anti-grassroots and inhumanity of the memorials continues more and may have been formally completed. Furthermore, the requirements of the Development Fund and the checks on how these are implemented do not differ from the Memorandums of the Capitalist Crisis 2010-2018. You also referred to the use of public property, which is nothing but privatisation, as in Greek, which you voted together, of course, SYRIZA claims and does not hide the share of success in privatisations, which, if you like, shows the strategic partnership. However, the ‘LAMP’ group will only pay the price from the casino. So in the end, we're making gifts with the scoop on the chapter. Of course, the privatizations in the EEAS follow. Already with an amendment you are essentially taking a step in privatising by entrusting the maintenance and operation of the EEAS to a private person. It is unacceptable because water is good and is not a merchandise, and we will, in fact, say the water, and the disasters you make in the mountains to gain from the RES parks. As far as health and social policy expenditure is concerned, I would like to say the following. It was analysed by our parliamentary representative. Expenditure remains as absolute figures at the same level but as a percentage of GDP it is reduced when pandemic is here and of course the major needs have emerged in hospitals and primary health. And on the occasion of government policy on vaccination, it is only certain that mass vaccination is not guaranteed by extortion or by supposed consideration. The people's essential information is the responsibility of the State, as well as the taking of all necessary protection measures and the strengthening of the public health system, so that individual responsibility is established. What are you doing and it's embarrassing? You dare the only hospital in West Attica, the "Attica", to want to convert it into an autonomous business unit, to lose any public character with patients - customers and cheap at the health pay. It's a disgrace. And with regard to unemployment, you are advertising the creation of hundreds of thousands of new jobs. These are only a small part of the increasing unemployment, while their terms and working relationships will be determined by the multi-faceted legislative arsenal built over time in favour of ensuring cheap labour force for capital. And of course the people as a whole will pay the bill with some sixty reform initiatives and programmes. Therefore, black is not made white, no matter how hard you try, just by the force of organising the social alliance of workers and strengthening the struggle to get better days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u331	Thank you. If you wish, Mr. Kegeroglu, on behalf of the Change Movement, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u332	Thank you, Mr President. I have tried to substantiate in my position why there are conditions for real growth aimed at social development at the same time. I talked about an integrated plan that the government really should have drawn up in order to make use of all the resources at its disposal. Instead, we have seen fragmentary discussions, separate lists of projects and actions and even without genuine consultation with the developmental and social actors. In this House too, it came after a demand we have made, but the debate was limited to specific contexts, without taking a substantial character. I am saying these because we really must not go through the impression that we have no resources, that we have no possibilities and what to do is manage them. It's exactly the opposite. We cannot make the best use of what we have at our disposal. And I'm making a simple comparison with 2009. In 2009, Europe was indifferent. We were told: "You have eaten them, you have found them." In 2009-2010-2011 Greece was divided and the House itself. They were the ones who fought to deal with the crisis and those who fought against them. Today there may be disagreements and controversy, but there is enormous tolerance and not only, there are creative proposals and responsible proposals on our part about how to proceed. So we also have European support and a better political climate and a world that awaits and does not respond to positive proposals. So there are all the prerequisites. Let us not talk about bankruptcies and, above all, about bankruptcys involving management deficiencies either of Ministers or agencies or of the system as a whole. I want to focus on the two messages of the pandemic. The first is to restore humanity and the environment to the level of policies. The second thing that has been done within the European Union was for the European Union to understand and for the European Union to accept that the relaxation of the tight high targets, surpluses and others, or very low deficits, is a precondition to address the crisis and to relaunch and relaunch the economy. Not only did the European Union accept that, but it did so as well. Relax and the criteria for exploiting the resources of the current NSRP, but also a number of other things, including the high surpluses agreed by the previous government. What does Greece and the Greek Government have to do in the next period? And I'm closing with that, Mr. President. It must be drawn up at European level with those political forces, the governments above all, which raise the question of changing the tight objectives. This will be progress for Europe in order to make progress through public investment, through social policy, through environmental policy, through new wealth production policies and not just consumption policies, that Europe can strengthen its competitiveness towards the emerging, not just emerging, strong economies in the world, and Greece for a double reason, because it must of course relax the surveillance programme that exists and give us the opportunity to develop our policies on the basis of the right priorities that the Recovery Fund has set: the environment, digital transformation, social infrastructure and services. Let us see this progress being made in order to improve the level of citizens. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, too. The SYRIZA rapporteur - a Progressive Alliance, Mrs Catherine Papanatziou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u334	We are talking more than thirteen hours today and two days in committee. The government is consciously failing to answer basic questions about both the sizes of the economy and the directions of its policies. We were told by the Deputy Minister of Finance again that we should not worry because there are worse things than that. Compare the performance of the Greek economy with the average of the Eurozone. All right, let us know which location it was then. Say it as you say in the medium term. We had the third worst performance. What policy will you pursue in the European Union? We've been asking you all these days. What are you going to do with the measures you take back? A repayable advance. Mr Famelos and other Members of Parliament asked you. In 2022 we will have due time, we will have the suspensions that have expired, we will have the obligations of the year, we will have the insurance obligations, we will have a thousand two. What are we gonna do with all this? Is there a plan? Are we going to force business, households to go within 2022 to pay all this? Do they have the possibility? You're not telling us what's going to happen with all this. We tell you: the deposit will not be refundable. To stay in business, to be able to recover, to be able to face the next day. Recovery fund. You were telling us we weren't telling you numbers. It is an evasion and avoidance of our criticism of the Recovery Fund. Are we going to talk seriously in this Chamber or are we going to be fooled? Are we going to talk about targeting? Are we going to talk about regional development? What numbers can we tell you? Aren't the amounts? It is not a question of sums, but of how and how they will be directed. These are our differences. We know what the amount is. It's specific. It is defined by the European Union. But otherwise, you are aiming at the specific amounts and we are looking at them. This is our difference. On the other hand, during the two years we have also submitted to you programmes that we had for costing and have been documented and we have not discussed any of this. Why did we not discuss the pandemic and the consequences together? We have tabled proposals for health, proposals for work, for the relaunching of the economy, very specific proposals and very well documented. But you don't care why you haven't learned to talk. Once again, the sums from the Fund on the other hand are specific, the targeting differs. What is the direction of your own measures and what of ours? Who's this about? What questions do they answer? With regard to a number of issues that have been heard today, you are oppositioning to opposition to opposition. It was really your line to oppose the opposition. Imperial property tax, because we need to remember some things and see what's going on. In 2011-2014, who was government? Was it SYRIZA? Why? Is everything starting in 2015? It was 7,1 billion real estate tax in 2011-2014. In the first two memos, who was government? Thirty billion taxes. So let us go to what you have now legislated in the last two years. He said the Undersecretary of Finance that HNVY up to 60,000 30% that it was for small estates you legislated. No, you didn't legislate that. That's what we legislated. SYRIZA's government legislated it. You guys, you legislated for real estate tax. You legislated what's for the more than 500,000 property for the $1 million properties. Can we also see the income tax for legal persons? In the comparison figures of 2018 and 2019 from tax statements, the revenues reduced by legal persons were 1,5 billion. Where'd that go? In Peristeri's small business? If he's taken a billion and a half a pigeon for his small business, then all right, we'll see a big growth in the pigeon. But no one believes that. One and a half billion. Physical faces? One hundred and forty million less. So where's your tax policy? You certainly do, except for tax relief, tax exemptions in very specific, 635 euros reduction in dividends. Let's remember all this a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u335	Finish it, Mrs. Papanaceu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u336	I shall conclude, Mr President. On this matter now over the medium term, it is based on assumptions that are not based on any facts rather than on assumptions. These cases do not seem to be verified by somewhere. The policies already implemented by the government leave society unarmed. You are not answering us on key issues of our criticism of both the sizes of the economy and the surpluses that are now just budgetary margins and not a drain on the economy that you have been telling us all these years. What will happen with the measures that are being abolished? I'll say it again. What will happen even with what we have said is permanent? What are you going to do with the tax advance? What will happen to health workers, with permanent intakes in health? What are the numbers we see in the plan? These are issues that you have not answered us. So your plan can get it out of the media, but here's no mention or briefing. We can't talk on this basis. The way you handle the debate in Parliament shows that you have come to make an obligation, but it is not a formal process when the opposition asks you what to do with the insurance. No provision for transition costs. Shouldn't they be in the medium term?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u337	Hang up, Mrs. Papanachio. You've exceeded time a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u338	How do you ask us to place us in empty paper? The costs you claim do not correspond to the reality that people live and understand in society.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u339	Finish, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u340	We disagree and vote against you, the medium-term and the policies you are proposing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u341	And we are completing the speeches of the special speakers and the rapporteurs on their second-guess with the Member of the New Democracy and the rapporteur, Mr Theodoros Karaoglou. Here, Mr Karaoglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for about fourteen hours I have listened with particular attention and respect to all the views of colleagues on the medium-term framework of the financial strategy for the period 2022-2025. I must say that I have heard some of my fellow Members, and in particular - and I am clear - colleagues from the Officerial Representation have heard some exaggerations that have literally misled me. It seems that SYRIZA's colleagues - I am referring to them - believe that the Greek people have so quickly forgotten the country's tragic governance for four and a half years by the SYRIZA - ANEL government. They seem to believe that the Greek people are suddenly suffering from Alzheimer's. And of course I listened with great curiosity to make reference to lies the government supposedly says, by whom? From the liar party. As the proverb says, the wise Greek people, “at the house of the hanged man do not speak of rope.” In any case, let us come to the reality. The reality is that thanks to the efforts of the Greek Government, and in particular of our Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, who naturally has the active support and solidarity of the Greek people, and this is something that is objective and is found in all polls, Greece is building its trust with Greek citizens and with its European partners every day. Greece has entered a stable orbit of growth, progress, extroversion. The medium-term framework of a fiscal strategy is therefore the bridge for the next most optimistic day of the Greek economy and thus the Greek society. It is the only way to promote the necessary grid of changes and reforms, so that we can build tomorrow's strong and proud Greece, which I hope and believe we all want. I would remind you that for the next four years there has been an investment explosion, a return to the primary surpluses, an exit from the surveillance regime within 2022 and, of course, a fall in unemployment by about 5 points, which is estimated to be around 11% in 2025. There is also provision for a further reduction in the taxation of natural and legal persons, while maintaining the abolition of the solidarity levy for private sector employees and for free traders. With regard to return to recovery, this will start from this year onwards with an increase in GDP of around 3.6%, which means that GDP will be between 165,8 billion and 172,1 billion, and a very strong recovery is forecast for the whole period from 2023 to 2025, with GDP gaining more than EUR 10 billion on an annual basis. Two words about the gorgeous 150 euros in the 18-25 years old vaccinated young people who have so much annoyed Opposition. According to SYRIZA, 150 euros for young people are an attempt to buy votes for the elections, which I am passing away will take place after two years, while the Christmas gift five months before the July 2019 elections was not an attempt to buy votes. 'Yours, secretaries and Pharisee hypocrites'. EUR 150, as the Prime Minister said, is not a privilege, but it is just a debt to youth, a thank you for their persistence and patience for contributing to the collective effort aimed at freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that, as a government, we are breaking the blocks of immobilization that kept the country locked in yesterday. We are confronted with distorting attitudes of the past. We dare excesses that our homeland needs more than ever. At the same time - I cannot help but support it - the Acoustic Opposition continues to be the 'great patient', with the sterile 'no' in everything, a dowry of micro-party and micro-political perceptions, wants us to remain inactive as a country. It is attracted to stagnation, crying out the classic marxist chips about the eruption of neoliberalism. We did not expect, ladies and gentlemen, anything different from a party which bases its political existence on conditions that are reasonable and practical that do not find any resonance on the demanding today. But the truth, the essence is one, that Greece is changing day after day. The medium-term financial strategy framework of the period 2022-2025 is another development tool that we use to achieve the big bang of the Greek economy. I have no illusions, but yet I must, even at the last minute, urge colleagues of the Anti-Population to follow the path of logic and vote in favour of the bill on the future of Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, Mr Karaoglu. Minister, you have the floor to close the sitting for fourteen hours, as all my colleagues have said, and to proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u344	Thank you, Mr President. It's last hour. I'll try to be brief. I can't answer a few minutes and there are a few things that will be unanswered by their nature. For example, this connection between wind turbines and water shortages that will exist because of the wind turbines I have previously heard, I think it will remain unanswered. I can't answer that. Let me start with some of the things I have heard from Mrs Papanatsiou at the end that may sum up the debate. As far as the recession is concerned. Greece had, as you know, an economy that was especially vulnerable to a phenomenon such as pandemic. Hence, and when the pandemic began, the international organisations predicted that we would be one of those who would be disproportionately affected by this recession. And we predicted that we would have a very high recession since the first lockdown and without knowing whether we would have a second one, we saw that we would only go with the first lockdown in the 7.9% unfavourable scenario. In practice, the recession in 2020 was less than expected. It reached 8.2%, with an average of 6.6% of the euro area. You realise that the difference is small, if we see how bad tourism has been, and already this difference has been overturned in the first quarter of 2021 when we have had a recession of -1.3%, compared with an average of -3%. The opposition was provided here in the House, without a second lockdown, 12% Mr. Tsipras and 15% Mr. Varoufakis. So what we said about the recession came better than expected. Indeed, we have spent a lot of money. We were at the risk of the greatest recession and spent most of Europe's expenditure, but not off-limits, hence we kept the bonds over there today. And we did this with the assent of the institutions. We cannot, however, have done so and you can blame us for insufficient measures and at the same time at the time when you are accusing us of insufficient measures, of coming in and saying that we have an excessive debt when you were asking for more measures. That doesn't make sense. Nor does it make sense to tell us that the support measures are being stopped beforehand, when you said that you wanted them to be super-front, to spend all the money we had at the beginning of the pandemic, in the first lockdown and about what will happen next, we didn't care about it. And there's a second and third lockdown, and you're telling us now that we're stopping them beforehand? Didn't you yell forward? We did it backwards and you tell us it's premature. And that's absurd. Unreasonable, too, is to tell us that in the Recovery Fund you are making this proposal and that there are no numbers for where and how they will be directed to what projects. Because, good or bad, the choices in a recovery program like this are where you put the money. What you think about this planet doesn't matter. Where you gonna put the money is. And that's not what you're telling us, because you don't have any specific figures on how you'd split it up. And you know why you don't have specific numbers? It also needs a lot of work, I assure you, to come up with specific figures - we have done a lot of work and this has been proven by the way in which Europe has dealt with it - but, above all, it is not because you want to have the luxury of claiming on all occasions that you would do more. When you put in specific numbers, they're specific. You can't say after that I'd give so much more here, so much there, so much there. Because you want in practice to claim that you would give a hundred times more than the Recovery Fund has, and that is what your political speech conceals, you do not put numbers in order not to have commitments and not to be able to tell you what you are going to do. That's a little about the past. Let's go to the present and in the future above all. You are accusing us of putting - it says - additional taxes, when we state clearly that we will not introduce additional taxes. You are accusing us of providing for more tax revenue. But we're predicting more growth and we're obviously going to have more tax revenue. Some who are rather not very relevant to the sport of budgets say: 'Why are tax revenues not proportional to growth?' Because tax revenues because they have instruments and the profit tax, and includes in 2021 various reductions and tax cuts which we have put in and because it includes 2021 and all the payments we gave in 2020, which are also tax-free, but which were real incomes, do not have this way of comparing them. It's just math. Some people are complex mathematics. I'm leaving there so I don't take too much time. I'll finish sooner. I think I'll be one of those few who've finished earlier. I should like to say one reason for this issue of the EUR 150 measure that I have heard swept through incredible expressions here. We'll put a little common sense in it. Who were most affected by the coronary in the labour market? Young people. Why were young people affected? Because young people, in principle, were unable to enter the labour market for a year because they were almost closed - that is one - and they are mostly unless they have greater unemployment. We inherited these as you know. And young people have the jobs that are the most vulnerable in a time of crisis, the most temporary. For example, in tourism many young people work in tourism, because the places there are many times temporary. So those who were most affected and who, by the nature of the matter, are less ill than the coronary and much less threatened and are less threatened, are also compensated - if you like - for the fact of the additional blow which the very young, especially, have - and a motive more to be vaccinated. Of course, we're giving a little more motive. You'll tell me it's social responsibility. But those who do it for reasons of social responsibility do it. Can we talk more about it? We're trying to convince more. Can it work a motive, too? Of course it can work and act as an incentive. What does that mean? It means lives will be saved. That's what it means. It means that lives will be saved not of young people, but some more elderly people who have been left uninvasive. What do you mind saving lives, helping tourism and culture, which have been particularly affected by young people who have been particularly affected? Why all this inspiring and passion against this measure? The only reason I can think is that it's a charge of the population that is politically thought to be more favourable to you. But I do not think that now is what we have to judge. We've been through the elections for a long time. We're still a few days under the middle of the four-year period. One clarification about fuels I want to do, because I have heard again and again about energy prices and everything else. Look. I saw a bit of the Ministry of Energy's announcement before I did this placement. In Europe we currently have EUR 86 to EUR 108 wholesale price. Why is that? For these simple reasons: Firstly, because natural gas has risen, which is one of the critical fuels at the wholesale price. They've been at the highest prices since 2013. Secondly, the prices of pollutants have risen. It's 55 euros when we were between 20 and 30 years ago a year and a year ago. Thirdly, the oil prices which mainly affect gas prices. And we have, at the same time, heat and apnea, because when you have heat you usually have apnea. This practically pushes prices too high, not to us, everywhere. What do we need? Here comes the Recovery Fund. We need storage, so that renewable sources in these periods of heat and apnea can have energy resources from storage so that we do not get too high on prices and, of course, we need defoliation. And this is where the policy of the government and Mr Mitsotakis is justified, which goes much faster on degreasement, because the lignite is completely out as an effective fuel when you have 55 euros of pollutants. It is more than 100 euros permanently the lignite in this case. Someplace you have to understand, especially those who still love polluting fuels in the Greek Solution, that they are not just polluting these fuels, but are also extremely expensive. And finish with one point. You say to us: why have you not put policy measures on each other and on the other and on the other? For a very simple reason: because the medium-term is based on the general evasion clause. We cannot legislate permanently. So we cannot say what happens after 2023, because we cannot legislate and we cannot say it for another too strong and reasonable reason: we do not know the basis of the calculation. The rules must come out in Europe, and then we can say how much budget space we have. We are recording the possibilities of the financial area and we have explicitly written - I say it for some who have made the trick do that they have not read what we have - that there will be this financial area and that we will use the whole space that we will have in addition to the objectives that will be mandatory in terms of European rules. To finish my position, the medium-term here records the baseline scenario, and that could record. He couldn't do anything more. And the baseline scenario is a good scenario given that we come out of the biggest crisis since World War II, health and economic. That's the reality. How are we going to use it? I said something and I want to repeat it by closing down: Resources will only have to the extent that we are going to have reforms, serious investments and we will be effective and keep the good image of the country's budget that we have today. In this case resources will be created. Resources coming from the sky never existed, they won't exist in the future. The future is in our hands and our role as government is to give all this effort to the Greek people, to give growth, to jobs, to better wages, to a better social state. However, for this to happen, investment, reforms, seriousness, technological excellence and efficiency, household, all that has been lost over the past decade and possibly or rather with certainty in earlier phases that Greece has not been able to do. It is a unique opportunity, indeed, to change course and this unique opportunity the Government of Mr Mitsotakis will not waste it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u345	Thank you too, Minister. The debate on the principle and the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is closed: ‘Medium-term Financial Strategy 2022-2025’. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, an article, a farewell article and the whole bill. Make sure you have passed all the articles, the hotel article and the entire bill. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u346	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u347	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u348	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Medium-term Financial Strategy Framework 2022-2025’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u349	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u350	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-01-S1-commons.u351	With the consent of the House at 00.14 the sitting is closed for today, Friday, July 2, 2021, at 9 a.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
