ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 26-5-2021 authorisation, the PLA's minutes of Wednesday's 26-5-2021 sessions on the unresolved draft law were ratified by the Bureau of the PL's Special Electoral Lists of Foreign Electoral Electors:]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Discussion and vote uniformly on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Consolidation of the contract for the transfer of rights through contributions in kind against an increase in share capital between the Private Property Fund of the State S.A. on the one hand. and, on the other hand, Hellenic Real Estate Management and Management Company S.A.’ The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting of 20 May 2021 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and all. The bill was passed in the Standing Committee by a majority of 4/5. It is introduced to the House under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure. In other words, those who object to the bill may be given the floor for five minutes and the parliamentary representatives, if they wish, again for five minutes. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-27-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. As I see it, - and they can speak for five minutes - the party rapporteurs from the Communist Party of Greece, the Greek Solution and the Mera25 have the floor. So, from the point of view of the Communist Party of Greece, my colleague Mrs Diamando Manolakos has had the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-27-S1-commons.u3	With this bill - contract or contract for the transfer of rights from the GOE to "ELLENIKI S.A." you deprive the last breathless, free spaces, saints and beaches from the inhabitants of the Lefkanopidi area of Lekanopidio, increasing their lives in total to find a golden way out the capital of business groups. In fact, you are completing the crime against the use of the Greek for the needs of the people and today you are giving the death penalty for a lung, the last large free area of breath needed by the wider region of Lecanopdi. This is the largest unstructured property in Europe. It's three times the size of Monaco and almost twice Central Park in New York. It includes the marina of Agios Kosmas in full operation with sports and individual building facilities for recreation and sport, which you will deprive residents of. The new crime prepared by the current government against the people has been supported and voted in all phases jointly by New Democracy, SYRIZA and KINAL. Besides, the concession of Greece bears the seal of all urban governments, while New Democracy and SYRIZA compete for who will be the most capable of sacrificing the interests and needs of the people on the altar of capitalist profitability and that is what you are doing. You are hypocrites, because you are presenting it to the benefit of the people and with an environmentally friendly cloak, while you are not protecting the environment. In order to implement this strategic investment, all governments have had to legislate on the special law of investment, regulate the terms and legislating exclusively in the interests of investors, such as how cheap they will buy the land - almost free - and infrastructures, how they will ensure cheap financing by the state, what tax exemptions they will have, what subsidies and privileges, how they will have cheap and flexible labour force by drawing billions of profits. There's a lot of new derogations from the rest of the territory. The entire investment of the Greek is a derogation when people are tortured and carved for a tile in their heads at the same time. The previous government of SYRIZA has declassified the area from forests to avoid an inhibiting effect on investors, accelerated the procedures for approving environmental conditions with a lot of discounts - so ecologicalists you are - and the issue of building permits in the Greek with fast track procedures, to cover the environmental impact of the construction of skyscrapers, shopping centers, casinos, etc., from the construction of a new private city in the city. And the New Democracy today makes a decision within ten working days. If the period has elapsed, the licensing procedure goes on self-justly, without any restriction. Also, there was a casino located within the urban fabric by SYRIZA and even with a profit tax rate of 8%-12%. This means that ‘LAMDA’ will only be able to finance the remaining projects of the investment from the concession and operating revenues. This is the development you are visionary of the governments of New Democracy, SYRIZA and KINAL. Today's contract solves the investor's hands further, since the ‘LAMDA SA’ will have the full ownership of 30% of the land and the right to exploit, as if it had the full ownership of the remaining 70% of the land. Profitability, given the new anti-Semitism that puts gravel on the eighth and Sunday holidays with unpaid overtime and so much more gives more and more tools to capital to increase the exploitation of workers even more. So it is slavery to the labor power and concentration of the land in the groups. That is why it is necessary to strengthen the struggles of the class movement, to demolish all the chains that all these governments of New Democracy, SYRIZA, KINAL and impose the right of the people. And there we are in front and stars.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-27-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou and the consistency in time. I call on the special speaker of the party Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliardo to take the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-27-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in committee we spoke in detail about the issue of another Greek convention by putting various questions that the Minister did not answer at all at all, of course, since he prefers the easy way: the responses to SYRIZA, which he accused of being responsible for the delays, so obviously the Latsis Group has not yet made a 1 euro deposit. On the contrary, the object of the Greek has already increased its economic power by EUR 2.5 billion, of which EUR 1.2 billion as a loan from our irresistible banks. Strangely enough now, despite the charges against him, SYRIZA also voted for this contract along with the third party of the Troika interior, with the KINAL - PASOK. They therefore insist on the destruction of Greece, which started by New Democracy in 2004-2009, which overcharged Greece, as it was today, while it continued in 2010 by PASOK, which led us to the IMF by changing the same VAT in order not to pay its debts. It followed the coup d'état of the two parties in 2012, which promised our homeland and our children for ninety years with the PSI, while the tragedy of the Greeks was completed in 2015 with the signature of the third memorandum by all three parties together. Continuing, this Convention relates, in particular, to the non-controlling GOI, since it is a direct subsidiary of the overseas surplus fund, together with the CFSF and the EBRD, to which the State's assets have been transferred. The company "ELLENIC S.A.", which appears to be the property of the State, which will manage the work of counter-comparison in the Greek with the contribution of the pavement of the former airport of the Greek and the coastal front. The transfer is made without valuation, at a price determined by the original offer, despite the changes in the terms, substantiating that this is another scandal. In the present case, the distribution with the contribution of all the areas to the "ELLENIC S.A.", and we have already mentioned our reservations in the discussion of the distribution contract two months ago. In particular, an international organisation that was scandalously awarded to only one tenderer, who submitted the EUR 915 million bid. Of these, 415 as an advance were entered in the 2020 budget, as well as in the first quarter of 2021, without being yet collected, as the Minister for Development has recently informed us. We also want to complete the following: First, as a buyer, the subsidiary ‘LAMDA’, the ‘GLOBAL ISA’, established under Luxembourg law and established there, which means that it will be taxed in Luxembourg, in which case the State will lose a lot of money from the known tax avoidance. Secondly, the specific subsidiary of LAMDA DEVELOPMENT, which is in Luxembourg, is a company with a capital of EUR 36 000. So many, 36,000 euros! Thirdly, a company that will buy a plot from EUR 148 to EUR 218 a square metre will sell real estate at least as skyscrapers, with higher prices of EUR 10,000 per square metre, financed by the Greek banks and without even giving EUR 1. Can anyone view this as a success of the government without being classified as a fool? I guess not. We owe this to the Latsis group and we do not know it, because otherwise, these colonial concessions are not justified at all? Fourthly, by sharing the area of the Greek, outside the seaside zone, that is to say with the casino and with the expensive dwellings, only 30% will be transferred to the ownership of the "LAMDA" and it will probably be sold to third parties, while the remaining 70% will be left at the HIDE for ninety years as the right to surface. In the end, therefore, the acquisition of the Latsis group has nothing to do with the old airport, as it focuses on the coastal front - which is the fillet and which was outside the airport - in some homes, in mall, as well as in casino. The convention itself, and we have found that it is very binding, since not only can it be offended for any reason, but all the third parties are bound by it indefinitely and any successors of the companies are also bound by it. Apart from that, obviously, and unacceptablely, there is no provision for the possibility of state control, nor even for illegality. How, then, is it possible to vote on it? Finally, if so many years that the Greek - or it will still be - were transformed into a photovoltaic park, with its five thousand acres would have a capacity of 200 MW, based on that of Kozani, while because it is next to Athens, there would be no loss of transport and transformation of electricity by the formation of the ground - with cement, that is, at the landing airport - ready. Even the self-evident things the Greek governments do not think about, so Greece reasonably became a colony of the Germans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-27-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, too. Mrs Aggeliki Adamopoulou has the floor on behalf of the Merra25 Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-27-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with the contract we are debating today, they are transferred completely by ownership, prestige and ownership, they are handed over and the properties of the former Greek airport by TIADED to "ELLENIC S.A.", along with all the annexes, with all the buildings, infrastructure and others, including the Marina of Agios Kosmas. So, in fact, it is about the implementation of Article 3 of Law No 4787/2021, a law which we had voted against, we had categorically disagreed with it, as we categorically disagree with the sale of public property in general and against a lentle. The three parties New Democracy, SYRIZA and Change Movement, the three Memorandum Orders, what they are doing now a little - very much - are to celebrate and compete with each other about who bears the sad "motherhood" of the development and investment of gambling. As we have seen in committee, they intend to vote in favour of the convention with arms and legs. They celebrate because they actually give the largest unstructured plot in Europe against a price of EUR 911 million. In fact, this great vision and this great opportunity resulted in a major international competition, in which the 'LAMDA DEVELOPMENT' was a unique majority. The Technical Chamber had made a relative estimate of around EUR 3 billion and now the Latsis Group is coming to give EUR 915 million. At first it was supposed to buy building development in the property, namely 40% of the land, and now with the same money it is coming to get a lot more rights. And the question is why, in the end, this investment, which is supposed to be healthy and demanding, needs such urgent funding. To give an example to the Greek people for the size of the rug, I will take an example from European football, where the six biggest translations to European football since 2017 have cost EUR 900 million and all the parties that are currently voting for this bill instead of being embarrassed, are congratulating them, because they have actually managed to sell out against the cost of six footballers, the fillet of the coastal front, which is three times greater than Monaco and twice greater than Central Park in New York. This, then, only demonstrates the tragic manipulations, shows that this is a sale in the logic of 'as much as possible'. It is not enough, however, to that extent, but the contract provides that the transfer contract is to be drawn up by means of a private document, by way of derogation from any special and general provision. In other words, with a private contract, when a simple apartment, a studio, a field, a simple parking space requires a notarial public document, which is then transferred to the mortgage room. Here the ownership, the prestige and the possession of the Greek fillet, which is sold out, is done with a simple private contract. In the future, such contracts cannot be excluded on a simple towel. Let us see what else is predicted: that the transfer is exempted from any levy, from any remuneration or right in favour of the public, in favour of a legal person governed by public law, in favour of any third party, in favour of any insurance institutions, and that the transfer of the contract to the books of the mortgage is paid 'pilgrims' and that any other charge in favour of the public is excluded. The subsidiary, which will actually take the fillet, is based in Luxembourg, which means that the tax paid is 'air cut off'. So the question that arises is this: does the countries which really want to attract investors? Are they selling out their precious assets and even paying off? Is that what's called an investment strategy? Even the countries which you very often call upon, such as the United States of America, to give new impetus to investment, new breath to local economies, have not come up with the idea of selling public land, whether Beverly Hills or Manhattan. And right now, you want to impose the model of Southeast Asia and make Greece Tayland and Macao with the rich being enclosed in the enclosed, fenced skyscrapers and poor outside looking from the keyhole at the cynical display of abundance. We had protested in the bill that you were thus implicating the creation of an enclosed 'electees' community. Then you fell in love with us, you were fighting and saying that all this is too much. And the special speaker of the New Democracy, Mr. Pascalides, has come to us saying that this is a development of a model smart city in the city. Furthermore, Mr. Pascalides said that there has been a significant increase in the value of the properties already in the wider Greek area, which is expected to be intensified in the coming years, as more and more are looking for houses or business properties in a region that will be in a few years' time at the heart of interest. And the question is: Who are these, ladies and gentlemen, who will increasingly be interested in buying real estate in a region that costs 10,000 euros a square? Who, in other words, will give 1 million euros to buy a 100 square square block property? In short, to whom is this pharaonic vision addressed? Obviously, after the golden visas with the well-known frauds, which are constantly revealed, the time has come for the "platinum" that are even more suspicious, because it goes without saying that it will not have a precedent for this international black money laundering in these super-costed invoices in the casino's pockets and roulettes. So why aren't you more honest and why don't you finally call him "Greek S.A. Laundry" to get this over with? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-27-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mrs Adamopoulou. I have been asked by the parliamentary representatives for the floor so far by the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrinis. Then any other parliamentary representative may speak for it. Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-27-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you have, of course, made it clear that the issues relating to the implementation of the Banking Code, which starts in five days from now, will be brought in next week with provisions that we will be discussing, because many questions and many problems have been raised and I am already being informed, which I imagine you also know, have started seizures of bank accounts, because the protection measures have been suspended. We do not have any information about the property re-establisher, who would theoretically allow weak borrowers to stay in their homes as tenants for twelve years. In five days, it starts applying the bankruptcy code and there's nothing specific about it. The borrowers who have received loans guaranteeing the Greek State are currently in a tide between the public and banks on whether the guarantees will be deposited, what amount of guarantees will be paid if they can regulate in the extrajudicial court or whether they should go to the regulation of the hundreds of twenty instalments voted on by the Banking Code. In fact, yesterday I asked a relevant question. So I think that all of this, together with the improvement provisions of the Bridge 2 programme, will be discussed next week. These are very critical issues, which concern a very large part of our fellow citizens who are anxious to receive calls, payment orders, seizures and I fear that after October he will also accept auction piles. As far as today's bill is concerned, the special speaker Kostas Scandalidis has been placed. It is a flagrant investment for which they have struggled, even with a different phase and a change of attitude, by various governments. It shows that this cannot be confined to a parliamentary term or to a political party. And because we had heard a lot of statements about the abolition of investment on the one hand and the bulldozers who would be in one week on the other, it would be advisable to keep a little lower tons and try to work collaboratively for an investment that actually has emblematic characteristics. We in the Change Movement have often been in favour of this investment for many jobs, for contributions to GDP and for tax revenues. On the other hand, our role is to monitor both the timetables and objectives set by investors and, of course, all those involved will be testified, such as government officials, consultants, suppliers, contractors and investors. And we are talking about the government, because the government can 'feel' and say it is the most prosperous investment government in the last decades in the country, but here I will give you an example. I heard the Deputy Minister for Development yesterday opening two EUR 800 million developmental programmes in total. So I ask, through you, a question to the Government: do you have the money to finance it? It is a rhetorical question, because the answer is no. You have gone or rather - because it is not your responsibility - since 2016 proposals of 2 billion in development law have been written in the PPP 80 million by the end of the year and, of course, most of the proposals that have been made when they go to the banks to borrow, because they are part of the funding, you know very well that they are facing closed doors. What's the result? That the percentage of investments currently being implemented in practice in relation to those subject to the development law, which has been continuously extended since 2016, is unfortunately one-digit percentage. If this fits into a government that says that it is pro-investing and wants to bring foreign investments and strengthen entrepreneurship, I think it is completely contradictory. And I say this because instead of the Ministry of Development to look for ways to solve, facilitate and speed up the procedures, it seems that all that matters is to bring amendments such as this Parliamentary, Friday afternoon, to change the way in which it is run in chambers, a choice that has caused a universal reaction from the chambers, because it obviously looks forward to manipulation and control of administrations and only serves very specific cases. We also received a letter from the President of the Central Union of Chambers Mr Michalo - it is not PASOK for the man - who says that it will cause overthrowing of the smooth course of administrations, due to controversy or personal ambitions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Now, I say this - and I conclude, Mr President - because it seems that the government likes to perform a series of institutional interventions at many levels of social and political life. Last incident is the obsession of Mr. Aygenakis, who has shown unprecedented zeal both in the Chamber and outside the hall, to intervene in the issues of antiquities of sports federations. Of course, anyone who claims to be in favour loses one after another. Nevertheless, Mr. Augorakis continues the same tactic, with his last incident trying to intervene and cancel the elections in the Basketball Federation, in basketball, with various excuses. Indeed, it came to the point of questioning indirect court rulings that they have been misled or that they did not receive the facts, then invoke reasons for public health to forbid Sunday elections, because, I don't know, his excellence seems not to have the lead, and now we find that a meeting is currently taking place in the GDR for reasons, says public order that the electors should not go on Sunday to vote on the basketball Federation elections. This is an unprecedented concept and practice, and the government should ensure that there are normal elections, that Mr Augarianis is put in his place, who, in a way of openness, is intervening and trying to manipulate all these procedures, and, of course, that he does not use provisions allegedly to disrupt the common peace or to prevent incidents, which will be made, ladies and gentlemen, if possible, in antiquities of a sports federation, so as to prevent what seems to be the result. Here, then, we must end all this holiday function and the government on this issue must be directly placed in this area, not directly, whether in the pandemic or in the public order, in order to make a real coup d'état. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-27-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing this House on Friday 28 May 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 792/23-2021 topical question by the Deputy of State of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kamine to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Direct initiatives by EL.AS. to deal with organised crime’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 796/24-5-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The redundancies in the structures of the Centre for Social Welfare of Crete (CCI).(')'. 3. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: “The government keeps a hundred and fifty employees in the Center of Bakers, "Mother" and other welfare structures. B. PERSONS OF second-cycle Questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Vasiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, dated 798-24-2021, on "Reforming the tables of beneficiaries for expropriations resulting from the construction of Kastelio International Airport". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 790/23-2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Strengthening benefits to blind scientists and lawyers'. 3. The question by No 799/24-2021 of Mr Kegeroglou, Member of the Herculus Parliamentary of the Change Movement, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Restoration and promotion of Labyrinth Mesara". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 4512/24-2-2021 by MP Heraklion of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Charalambos (Hari) Mamoulakis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "What are the conditions for privatising the former US base in York Heraklion Crete". Mr. Famelos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-27-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the reason why I am speaking from the Stepma is to place myself on the amendment that we have tabled, Mr Minister, in this bill on the Greek issue, an amendment that deals with the composition of the administrative board of "Greek Petroleum". We would not have made such an intervention in a ratification procedure if it were not a major political matter for the country. The question of "Greek Petroleum" and the management of the company is not something simple and small. Public participation in the company is a major asset that goes beyond property issues, because it has a developmental and national significance. The "Greek Petroleum" plays a crucial role in the country's geopolitical strategy, participates in cooperation in the Balkans, Cyprus, obviously linked to the stockpile of the country, energy security, imports of crude oil, hydrocarbon stocks and mining, the operation of refineries and therefore, Minister, and with the remaining issues of our economy, since they are linked to raw materials, product costs and costs of life and social functions. For this reason in the 2003 shareholder agreement, it was established that the Greek State participated in the Board of Directors by a majority of members, as the employees were, with an agreement that had taken the values since then and had been reflected in the agreement with the private shareholder and which was reflected in the final percentages. However, the decision of the ELPE Management Board on Thursday - and I note on Thursday - to grant the entire administration almost to the individual, since this competence goes to the general meeting, and therefore dismiss the public as a majority of the members of the Board of Directors and to remove the possibility for workers to participate in the board of directors, is an act that we have already described as politically and legally unacceptable. You know that, you have obviously seen our texts, but you have also participated in the debate that we had here at the level of the current questions and you, Mr Skrekas, with me and Mr Skourletis. We must say that it is unacceptable first of all that all seven public representatives vote for a recommendation which says that there will be no public representatives on the board. First of all, they are abducting the mandate of the Greek government, who has given them the mandate of representation. The targeting is obvious, it is to serve the private shareholder. For transferring all responsibility to the general assembly, hiding behind legitimate excuses - and I will explain about that - they give a right to the State that has been guaranteed. We must also say that this claim had been submitted again during SYRIZA's governance. We don't hear it for the first time that the shareholder wants to get the public out of the administration. But this concession is not just a concession of the management of the group, it is, Minister, and not only a concession of property. We believe that it should be clear to consider. Because we are tabling this amendment at the level of the contribution, and I think that is also what it seems from my position. Because the majority's right to the board of directors confers goodwill on the shares in this world market, the minimum it gives a premium of 15% on the value of the share, which means that at least by the loss of the majority on the general council the public loses over EUR 100 million with this option, without giving any shares, without making any other concessions. So no such decision, which is strategically important to the country and economically, can be taken without evaluation and without adequate political documentation. That is why we, on the first day, on the Great Thursday, said that the general meeting should be postponed, that you should take the matter back and move on to legislation that ensures public participation and the majority of the public. After the debate on the topical and urgent questions, which I must say was a misunderstanding that you defended so much and defended the proposal of the administration, you were right to ask for the general meeting to be postponed as a TIADE. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, it proves that the ministers of the New Democracy here in the timely questions wrongly supported the decision. Because they then came to confirm us and postponed the general meeting, asking for at least 2/5 public participation to be guaranteed on the board of directors, which we told them here in plenary and did not accept at that time. But, Mr Stakoura, I accept that a second thought of a political person can correct the previous one. We recognize this right. But here we must resolve something serious, which is the obligation to secure the majority of the public on the board of directors and to involve the workers. That is why we took the initiative to ensure the public interest in tabling this amendment which goes into this bill, because there was, unfortunately, no other legislative opportunity, which is why I told you in advance that we had this overrun to enter the ratification process. But the Mitsotakis Government should be placed. Will it defend the public interest in this most important group for the country or not? We will therefore vote together on an amendment which, I note, takes into account all the regulations of the laws of 2018 for public limited companies and the 2020 law on corporate governance. Because this has also been used as an excuse, that I have had the laws of 2018 and 2020 to change. Since that is not the case, then, we tabled an amendment that provides that the public receives 2/5 by appointment, according to what the law of 2018 lays down and complements, with a proposal to the general assembly, up to 50% plus one, so that the general assembly is obliged to choose and not be done otherwise. In practical terms, Mr Minister, we capture the 2003 shareholder agreement in a legislative arrangement that you could do with both a shareholder agreement and a change of statute. We recognise that it is now a regulation that is necessary. However, the government does not have the political authority to go to make a shareholders' agreement and to reflect the interests of the public. We are also bringing this into legislation. In practice, it is, to be clear, what the 2003 shareholder agreement provides for and by legislation. Obviously we have employee representation at 15%, while the public must meet all the conditions for the eligibility criteria laid down in corporateity. We are not underestimating them, Minister. They're serious, and we've submitted them. So the Mitsotakis Government has today and the opportunity to place itself and tell us whether it will ultimately support the interests of the public. Let me clarify - and I am sorry, Mr President - that various other excuses have been heard that this change is linked to the change in corporate governance. Let us therefore state, and this is about Parliament, that in 2019 the government-positioned administration had presented a plan of fifty-pages working fifty top company executives, which contained the entire process of company transition by 2050 for climate neutrality, which is a crucial issue. This also had seven main axes and specific invoicing and analysis of investments. Let us say that it was also planning and had taken into account the needs of consumers and the Greek market. Today's proposal, Minister, to the ELPE, is to tell you that it is behind that 2019 treatment. And take this into account because we are also interested in the transformation which is a false excuse for changing the board of directors. Unfortunately, the first samples of the new administration you've placed are negative. The group, which had presented to the government of SYRIZA a record of profitability in 2018, an increase in investment, a reduction in borrowing and an increase in work - to understand what it means to have public good administration and a majority in the group - now unfortunately has negative effects on all these fields and investments and workers and profitability regardless of market movement, because it has residual results from the other group of countries compared.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-27-S1-commons.u12	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-27-S1-commons.u13	I'm closing, Mr. President. So, Minister, we, beyond the question of administration, efficiency and programming, put the question of safeguarding the interests of the public, the property of the public, the rights and the representative of the workers. That is what the amendment says. And we are clear that this amendment commits us to programme. It is our proposal for the administration of the "Greek Petroleum". It is not just for today, it is for tomorrow, it is about how we propose that this group should be run and run with the same positive results for the country and for the workers and the country's next progressive government. Because it seems that you, Minister, do not guarantee any positive results or the interests of the public. However, because it concerns the interests of the public, we would like an honest and productive debate on the amendment. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-27-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, I would like to speak for half a minute on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-27-S1-commons.u15	Mrs Manolakou, you can't take the floor again. The Rules of Procedure will be respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-27-S1-commons.u16	We do not have a parliamentary representative, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-27-S1-commons.u17	We hear you, but just for half a minute and with the consent...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-27-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. As to whether or not the content of this amendment is important and whether or not I would like to say this: whether it has the majority or the minority of the public or whether it is public or private, the ELPEs are hiding the essence of developments and they are acquitting the general strategic assumption of all the political forces, SYRIZA, New Democracy, the Movement of Change, which have practically and essentially been in favour of this policy and have set up the territory of these changes for years. ELPEs operate fully as a privatised company, regardless of the role or each time the state is involved and have the stamp of all governments. Therefore, all these years we have been asking for conclusions that the government has taken part in the appointment of administrations, and these administrations have had as a priority not society and workers but shareholders. Therefore, behind these are artifacts in support of this policy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-27-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor to conclude the current procedure and to reply to the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-27-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. I suppose to reply to the 'with an article, a law' which we have remembered again. I will begin on the core of the bill we are discussing today. In view of the draft law, ladies and gentlemen, the contract for the transfer of property rights in kind is ratified and enforced in accordance with the law that has been passed by several parties here in Parliament by Law 4787/2021. The contract is a contract signed on 19 May 2021 between the GOE and the ‘ELLENIKI S.A.’. In particular, the following is provided in principle: First, the GOI grants, transfers and delivers to the company "ELLINIKI S.A." in full ownership, prestige and ownership properties, buildings and components which are in annexes pursuant to Law 4787/2021 in full payment of the total amount of EUR 911.200,000 of the increase in equity. Secondly, the individual obligations of the parties, such as the transfer from the HIPS of the real estate of all property free of charge, tax, fee, legal and factual defects, the certification of the full payment of the amount of the capital increase through the contribution of rights and the issue and delivery to the HIPS of one or more shares incorporating this capital increase, are specified. Thirdly, it is foreseen that each of the parties shall guarantee against any third party that the contract in question is valid and strong, expressly and unconditionally waived of any right to challenge, burglary and annulment of the transfer of rights and of that contract for any formal or substantive reason or reason. Fourthly, that contract is governed by Greek law and the resolution of any dispute arising therefrom falls under the jurisdiction of the Athens courts. And fifthly, in the form of an annex, the list of immovable property in respect of the transferred rights, as well as the special contributory diagram, is annexed. Ladies and gentlemen, in order not to repeat what I said yesterday in committee on what is next or what we have done in the last month, from July 2019 to today, to demonstrate to you the immaturity of the project in 2019 and the difficulty of completing the project later on - the Ministry of Finance with faith in the development potential of the project and with the proper security that is required by the defence of the public interest on the grounds of competence and competence - has implemented a grid of important legislative interventions, but also mature actions in the direction of start-up of investment and I think we are reaching the end. I list the most important things only. It's time to apologize. Firstly, regarding the contribution of the Ministry of Finance - the adoption of four joint ministerial decisions for the location and implementation of the Integrated Development Plan for Greece. CYC of Metropolitan Green and Recreational Park, New Airport Development Zone, MSY of Urban Life, and MSY of Coastal Front Lives. Secondly, the legislative resolution on the tradition and management of public and public utilities in Greek. Thirdly, the resolution on the settlement - legalisation of the arbitrary buildings of the Metropolitan Pole of Greek-St. Kosmas, of BIDAK, and the opening of demolition within the IBC. Fourthly, a regulation on the integration of the ISA/LA relocation project. Fifth, an agreement between the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance and the "LAMDA" on a project to distribute the full ownership of the properties that constitute the Metropolitan Pole of Greek - St. Kosmas. We didn't find a single line written by the previous government. Sixth, correction of an internal limit to the property of the coastal zone of Agios Kosmas. Seventhly, voting for a provision on the distribution process and the creation of the right to surface. Eighth, the adoption of a provision establishing the Institution of Independent Engineering and the framework governing the execution and receipt of the Metropolitan Pole of Greek-St. Kosmas infrastructure, as well as the associated works, buildings and facilities of them. Ninth, the adoption of a provision supplementing the institution of the territory. The Council also adopted a common position on the proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound power level of motor vehicles and their trailers. Eleventh, signature of a contract for the free use of the LEK building for the services of ELAS and Firefighting. Twelfth, an act of Ministerial Council at the beginning of this week pending since 2016 – I repeat, it has been pending since 2016 -- because the then ministers refused to sign for the stock purchase agreement and the amending contract. Third, agreement between the members of the SPA Direct Agreement documents. And finally, the 15th, today, ratification of the levy contract. I have therefore talked to you about fourteen distinct steps which have been taken over the past year and a half over the last one and a half in order to complete the process. In essence, today the Ministry of Finance covers almost all of its obligations to start directly on this flagship project. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall also speak about an amendment tabled by SYRIZA. You know, we were committed to being a net bill, without further provisions and without amendments, ministerial and parliamentary and we agreed on that. This, after all, has also been demanded by the Qualified Opposition. Therefore, the bill will be clean. That is why the draft law was discussed in only one meeting in the Committee on Economic Affairs, even though it is not an international convention. There was this joint commitment. We kept it, SYRIZA didn't keep it. I shall reply, however, to the substance of the SYRIZA honourable parliamentary representative, who, in his conclusion, said again that with an article and a law when they come to the government, they will do what they have done in the past with an article and with a law. On substance: SYRIZA with this amendment confirms what everyone in this country knows, namely, that it systematically and consciously chooses the path of preoccupation, curiosity and - the worst - demagoguery. Mr Skourletis - and the Minutes are available - days ago, to a parliamentary question, on 17 May, said to us - and I read from the Minutes: 'In no case do the law of 2018 but even 2020 allow such an interpretation, namely the reduction of the members of the board of directors and the overthrow of the core shareholders' agreement.' He argued, in other words, also through the question he had put, that there is absolutely no problem and that the Government simply did not comply with the law of 2018 and 2020. I put the question in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] By the way, that question had no mention in 2018, it only had in 2020. In the conversation inside, when I was placed, SYRIZA began to put it in 2018. Then, today, as Mr Famelos said, at the same sitting, he tabled an amendment. It is clear that you do not even agree with each other about what you should do. In other words, Mr Skourletis said, the law commits you to something, and today you are bringing an amendment. To bring an amendment, we have obviously correctly interpreted the law and you say that something needs to be changed in the law to be different, as you consider it to be different.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-27-S1-commons.u21	I guess you didn't listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-27-S1-commons.u22	So you realize the correctness of our position then. And I will say not only correctness but also consistency. Because if you look at the Minutes, there is an absolute consequence of my words then with subsequent developments, because I asked for the law to be implemented by the company. I did not support a specific decision. I supported the correctness of launching the adaptation of the company's functions. And I was quite clear. Workers on the Board of Directors of public limited companies where there are no specific provisions, such as companies under the 2005 CECF Act, are not rescued. That is why, in my speech at the time, I said that I call on the government to deplete all legal forms of worker participation. I was very careful at this point, too. That's not legality. This is called implementation of the laws, this is implementation of the laws.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-27-S1-commons.u23	Vote it then.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-27-S1-commons.u24	It is therefore confirmed today that what we have said from the outset clearly and with a sense of responsibility, as I hope you will remember, that the choices for the definition of the board of directors of a public limited company are demarcated in accordance with corporate law 4548/2018. The law of SYRIZA applies, a law that was passed on your own days and at a time when the data - and for this company, which has been translated into a clipboard, not to say a pretext, was at the centre - were already known to you. You knew everything. So when you were voting for Corporate Law 4548/2018, as long as you were voting for our law on corporate governance, 4706/20, did you not know that ELPE is a listed limited company and that its board should be established in accordance with the applicable provisions? Were you ignoring it? Have you overlooked it? It is also confirmed today that you are acting with impressive care. You are tabling an amendment to rules of law applicable to only one anonymous and even listed on the Company Stock Exchange. You are tabling an amendment to legislation introducing substantial structural derogations from your own company law and at the same time saying that I am taking them into account. Unbelievable handshake and contradiction. And you are tabling an amendment that you are saying that you are supposedly defending the interests of the Greek public and of the workers, while in fact you are not guaranteeing something, you are simply providing for the possibility of proposing members of the board of directors. The difference between the proposal and the election is known to everyone. I don't want to expand. In any case, it is more than obvious that your proposal is characterised by dangerous urgency. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, no one can be with the policeman and the police, as is commonly called. Whether you should accept today that, from the outset, legislate and suggest prosperous provisions without having essentially, really worked out or must confess that the scope of the legitimate actions of the public limited companies has always been known to you and now for small-scale and only reasons are you proposing targeted changes in the current framework for a single listed company. As I see it, both the reasons make this amendment inadmissible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-27-S1-commons.u25	Thank you too, Minister. A single debate on the principle of Articles and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Finance is hereby concluded: "Preparation of the contract for the transfer of rights due to contributions in kind to an increase in equity between the Private Property Response Fund of the State S.A. and, on the other hand, the Hellenic Real Estate Management and Management Company S.A.’. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the amendment and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-27-S1-commons.u26	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-27-S1-commons.u27	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-27-S1-commons.u28	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Undertaking of the contract for the transfer of royalties due to a contribution in kind against an increase in share capital between the Private Property Response Fund of the State S.A. on the one hand. and, on the other hand, the Hellenic Real Estate Management and Management Company of the Hellenic Airport S.A.’ has been accepted by a majority of them on the principle of Articles and all and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-27-S1-commons.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-27-S1-commons.u30	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-27-S1-commons.u31	With the consent of the House at 12.10 p.m. the sitting is closed tomorrow, Friday, May 28, at 9 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
