ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: In accordance with the Parliament's 16-6-2021 authorisation, PME's minutes were ratified under the responsibility of the Bureau of the PME Executive Board of Wednesday, 16 June 2021, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘For the Protection of Labour - Recommendation of the Independent Labour Inspectorate’ - Consolidation of the Convention 190 of the International Labour Organisation on the Elimination of Violence and Harassment in the World of Work - Settlement of the Convention 187 of the International Labour Framework for the Promotion of Safety and Health at Work - Incorporation of Directive (EU) 2019/1158 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on the balance between professional and private life’]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in the House on Friday 18 June 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 860/11-6-2021 topical question by SYRIZA Deputy Athens - Progressive Alliance Mr.Nikolaos Friend to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Removal of the Ministerial Decision on freedom of religion". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 859/8-6-2021 by MP Rodopi of the Change Movement Mr Ilhan Ahmet to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Exceptive transcriptions - movements of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs". 3. The Question No 866/14-6-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthakis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The immediate simulation of 4,000 workers with an OAED programme in the public health system". 4. The Question No 870/14-6-2021 by MP B2' West Athens Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Successful blood donation based on the principle of non-discrimination". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 861/11-6-2021 topical question by SYRIZA MP Drama - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theophilos Xanthopoulou to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: "Showing up 1,000 more of the documents from the Prosecutors' Prosecutors of Corfu - Dimensions of the case and disciplinary control of involved". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 863/11-6-2021 by the Deputy of State of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kamine to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "The performance of the Cesarean Sniper to the citizens and their legitimate representatives". 3. The question by No 867/14-6-2021 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Leonidas Stoltides, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Problems of workers in Kavala fertilisers". 4. The Question No 862/11-6-2021 by SYRIZA's MP Achaias - Progressive Alliance Mrs Athanasia (Syria) Anagnostopoulou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Following UNESCO commitments from the Ministry of Culture during the recent "reflection" of the Acropolis". 5. The Question No 864/13-6-2021 by the Member of the Argolida movement of Change, Mr. Andreas Poulas, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Great concern is causing the farmers of New Argolida the problem of acarpia". 6. The Question No 869/14-6-2021 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "The Pamploponnesian Stadium". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question under number 868/14-6-2021 of the Northern Athens Department of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Konstantinos (Kosta) Zachariadis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Examination procedure for obtaining Certificate of Conduct for Culture for the acquisition of Greek Citizenship". 8. The Question No 834/2-6-2021 by MP Kefalonia of New Democracy Mr. Panayia Kapatos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Support measures for producers of Regional Unity (U.S.) Kefalonia affected by the quarantine of 15 May 2021.’ 9. The Question by Mr Socrates Vardakis, Member of the SYRIZA, Vice-President of the Council, Mr Socrates Vardakis, Minister for Maritime Affairs and the Island Policy, on the subject: "Does the Government treat the port and the exceptionally important public property divisions of the Heraklion Prefecture?" 10. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: 'Increase the budget of the Young Farmers' Programmes and Improving the environment'. 11. The Question No 850/7-6-2021 by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Maria Konnaka to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The problems of the Psychiatric Clinic of the Mytilini Hospital". 12. The Question No 833/31-5-2021, by MP, East Attica, Mera25 Mr. Maria Apatzidis, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Furthermore and excessive injustice for Deputy Educational Theatrologists and Visual Courses". 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The question raised by Mr Dionysias - Theodoras Agerinopoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject of: 'Strict estimates of crop losses in Varda from the quartzfall of 15 May 2021'. 14. Observed. The Question No 841/4-6-2021 by SYRIZA MP Messinia - Progressive Alliance Mr Alexandros (Alexis) Greeting to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The facilities of the Kalamata Camp remain. 15. The Question No 851/7-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synchronakis to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "The problems in the public IEK of Tourism Professions in the Municipality of Hersonissos Regional Unity (P.E.) Heraklion Crete". 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions The Question No 836/3-6-2021, by MP, Eastern Attica, Mera25 Mr. Maria Apatzidis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Complete opposition from associations, institutions and residents of Eastern Attica, to the illegal operation of HYTA/CHY in the Graphics". 17. Mr Tsipras's Question No 842-4-6-2021, by Member of the Western Attica of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance to the Minister of National Defence - 'What criteria has the Government set for the purchase of new wells? Has it changed our defence strategy with regard to the capacity to defend our sovereign rights in the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean?' 18. The Question No 843/4-2021 by MP Xanthi of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Zabek Hussein to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The General Hospital of Xanthi on the brink of collapse". 19. The question raised by Mr Alexandros (Alekos) Triantafylides to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Direct establishment of the educational Theatrical Education Division P91". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Demetriou, Member of the SYRIZA, Mr Demetrius (Takis) of the Progressive Alliance to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on 'Will producers be compensated for the damage caused to the olive groves of Regional Unity (PT) Rodopi?' 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 6113/590/19-4-2021 was asked by MP B2' West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: “Instead of removing the Hazardous Waste Incinerator of Health Units next to HYTA Ano Liosias, it is planned for its long stay.” 3. The question asked by MP Fthiotidas of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Sarakiotis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: “An excessive increase in the cost of production for farmers in Regional Unity (PT) Phytotidas and the whole of the country”. 4. The question by Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis, Member of the SYRIZA, Vice-President of the SYRIZA, Mr.Ioannis Sarakiotis, Minister for Digital Governance, on the subject: "The situation in EL.T.A. in Regional Unity (PT) Phanthotidas due to government manipulations.’ 5. The 2551/10-12-2020 question by SYRIZA MP Laconia - Progressive Alliance Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Institution of a labelling system for food products with marks such as Nutri - Score'. 6. The question under number 6099/588/19-4-2021 and application for the submission of documents by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Justice on the subject: "The complete resolution of the death of Sifi Valyrakis is not only an obligation of the state but also a minimum sign of honour in his history and his struggles". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by No 5912/12-24-2021 of SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "The Energy Communities and Actions to Combat Energy Poverty will remain outside the National Recovery and Resilience Plan". 8. The question asked by MP Laconia of SYRIZA under number 5972/14-2021 - Progressive Alliance Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘A risk of rescuing 25 irrigation works under Measure 4.3.1 and a loss of almost EUR 350 million from the Agricultural Development Programme (PAF) 2014-2020’. We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Reforming an institutional framework of the Committee on Professional Sports, provisions for harmonisation with a holistic FIFA-UEFA study on football and the Greek Football Federation, restructuring of professional categories of football, operating reinforcement of the National Anti-Doping Agency, reforming an institutional framework for coaches and other amendments to sport legislation". The Conference of Presidents decided, at its meeting on 10 June 2021, to discuss the draft law at a meeting, a single, in principle and on articles. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is naturally proposed that the rapporteurs, special speakers and parliamentary representatives should be involved, a first cycle involving one speaker from each Parliamentary Group and one twelve-mile circle of speakers with the following ratio: five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the Communist Party of Greece, one from the Greek Solution and one from Mera25. A teleconferencing service is also proposed for a 12-mile circle of speakers with the same ratio as above. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u2	The House unanimously agreed. Therefore, since there is no other issue, the reason for the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Anastassios Bartzokas, has been the rapporteur for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the fourth bill of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, which is now being introduced to plenary, to vote for regulations on the Committee on Professional Sports, the restructuring of the professional categories of football, the new training framework and the other administrative issues of the Secretariat-General for Sports, proves one thing, that the boat of sport reform has for good sails and nothing can stir up its course. I have the honour, but most importantly, I have the pleasure of proposing to this House a bill involving the entire sporting family, and I am sure that the fruits it gives will be many and good. It does not help anyone, and above all it does not help the sports ecosystem and society as a whole to come and pretend that in the sports landscape everything is pomegranate. It's not, and we have to admit it. But the systematic effort, which has been made in recent years by the General Secretariat of Sports and especially by the Minister of Sports, Mr.Eleftherios Aygeakis, allows us to say that the dirt rug has finally been blown and we can hope that the sports family will see better days, that professional sport will become sustainable and competitive and that amateur will prosper again. The Morphics Committee has worked out all aspects of the bill in great detail, the Minister has clearly and adequately enlightened its members, the hearing of the bodies has been extremely constructive and, in general, we can accept that most of the provisions are accepted positively by everyone. The bill is divided into seven parts and the provisions on the Committee on Professional Sport do so. We therefore have in the first part a set of arrangements for this committee, which are initially clarifying its form as being the subject of the General Secretariat of Sports with increased control powers, increased material and human resources, but also with guarantees of functional and personal independence of its members, which will be chosen in the opinion of the Committee on Morphographics of the Parliament and in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Rules and the decision of the Minister. I move to the second part, which focuses on the integration of the proposals of the final FIFA and UEFA study to combat a series of Greek football pathogens and problems. We have, firstly, a change in the framework for fan clubs, which is seriously problematic today. It was very enlightening to hear about how many legitimate clubs we have in Greece. And the truth is that it is only fifteen, when there are many others which, as you can see, are currently completely out of line with legality. So the situation is really frustrating and is similar to the bad Sports page. The bill comes to tear this page and it does so in two ways. First of all, the procedure for granting operating certificates for fan clubs is simplified and it is facilitated by the teams to identify them. At the same time, there is provision for a rational system of local and time-limits for groups' civil responsibility, but also for an organised system for organising the movement of fans. And moving forward, it is laid down that the curfew of movements will not be in the hands of every minister. The Minister has already announced that there is an imminent upgrade of the IAEA Corps and that responsibility will be transferred there. However, acts of violence and incidentality during organised movements will henceforth find a wall from a strict penalties framework. And, yes, it is not taboo to say that the violation conduct will be punished and, indeed, strictly. So the peculiarity, i.e. a ban on the suspension and conversion of the barbaric sentences for criminal offences of violence, comes back. And as the chairman of the ICES Committee and the police director of sporting violence have submitted to the committee, the provision for the reintroduction of the proprietary name is accepted. In the same place there is provision for a new procedure for dealing with suspects for manipulation racing. All reports from the SOS or the Hellenic Olympic Committee and other sports federations for suspected matches will be communicated to the National Sports Integrity Platform. This way we take a big step forward and finally stop putting manipulation cases into the drawer. The third part of the bill takes over the arrangements for the restructuring of professional soccer categories, which is organised and clearly defined, to restore the chaos that has been created and to allow Greek football to regain its grief, but above all its viability. So the third National category of men, the Football League, and two professional categories of football, the Super League 1 and the Super League 2 are being abolished. It is a regulation adopted by all stakeholders. This restructuring is based on the assumption that the existing three-class model is completely unsuccessful and, if you like, the fact that, with little money, i.e. EUR 30 000, anyone could have an AOC and had a very adverse effect on the formation of illegally. The criteria are therefore stricter and are as follows: firstly, the minimum share capital which cannot be less than EUR 350 000 to ensure the sustainability and soundness of the teams participating in the championship and, secondly, the amount of the guarantee letter. In the case of the A1 National professional championship, the Super League 1, i.e. the guarantee letter is set at a minimum of EUR 150 000, whereas for the A2 National Championships of Super League 2, the amount of the guarantee letter will also be fixed at a minimum of EUR 150 000. Thirdly, it is laid down that for teams participating in the Super League 2 professional championship, at least half of the players declared on each match sheet throughout the championship must meet the conditions for participation in a Greek national team, any age category, in order to ensure the staffing of national teams by active and militant players. I would also like to refer to the initiative taken by the Secretariat-General of Sports, for the legalisation of the possibility of setting up a second group for the Super League OSCE. This is a development measure that brings together the positive suggestions of all stakeholders and will give the opportunity to talented players up to 23 years of age, to gain all experience and fight in Super League 1. In addition, and by closing the third part, it is regulated in a fair and transparent manner and the issue of contracts for the concession of television and radio rights, which are an important source of revenue for sports companies and athletes. Furthermore, in the fourth part, the EEC's operating aid is promoted by strengthening its defence for the eradication of the doping scourge. A number of issues are addressed, such as the adoption of specifications for candidates to participate in a competition, the appointment of the Executive Director, a position on which there is a prospect of being occupied by evolutionary members of the Agency in the future. The three-year term for the primary disciplinary committee shall be defined and the appointments of permanent staff shall be described. I now come to the fifth part of the draft law. Here, ladies and gentlemen, we have the proof that the reforms primarily require political will, but also the proof that the Minister's express commitment to restoring an injustice is being done and that the 'we' are going to do it. So the present provisions finally regulate the unregulated field of training. In football, the graduates of UEFA or BSE, as they are currently, with main football specificity, are treated as UEFA level coaching diplomas, with the same rate as being obtained automatically by receiving the diploma from the university. This is a consistent request from the EBRD graduates today, so that they are not excluded from coaching teams as coaches, as has been done to date systematically. A licence will be issued beyond the CSTD graduates and graduates from the Schools of the General Secretariat of Sports of all Levels I, B, III and graduates from UEFA Level II and above. The list of supporting documents required is also revised. Three levels of traineeship are established, 1, 2, C with the appropriate provision of specific rights at each level. The three steps of coaching and associated professional rights have so far never been laid down by law, except for de facto, because of the necessary degree of qualification at the periodical schools of the General Secretariat of Sports. Specialized NSA graduates will be level 1 as they graduate from their school, while the National School of Coaches will provide for the conditions of growth from Level C upwards. Graduates of the IEK will be level C because their education is prevalent in the training of coaches of the General Secretariat of Sports at the respective level. It is extremely important that there is a register of coaches in which those who are authorised to practice a profession on the basis of sport, qualifications and a level of coaching to which they belong are recorded. The register will be accessible to anyone interested in being informed about the registered coaches. In this way, the well-founded organisation, transparency and order in the coach sector will be achieved. The provisions of Part Six deal with a number of issues, mainly of an administrative nature. It is defined that sports club is the club that bears both the special athletic recognition, but at the same time has also been registered in the Electronic Register of Sports Associations, Article 142 of Law 4714/2020. I note that the deadline for the registration of sports clubs in the register, in order to be able to use the R&D&I facilities for the next season, is extended until 31 August 2021. Refusal to register means that the club is unable to sit at the table of the institutional dialogue, as it is not considered an institutional interlocutor. Another question the bill solves concerns the insurance of athletes. In the categories of peculiar contracts between athletes and unions in the categories mentioned, financial benefits are not an economic consideration for the provision of the athlete's medical services, but constitute support for the club to the athlete in support of his sporting activity. This resulted in athletes staying uninsured. For the first time, there is provision for their insurance through the signature of a private contract with the club and their placement in the insurance of the e-ECA to cover the athlete in the event of an accident. In addition, the remnants of amateur athletes are released from their club during the summer period of the year in which they complete the age of nineteen. The age limit is elected and the current commitment that held hostage athletes who did not consent to remain in this club and that unions did not consent to free themselves and move to another union so as to open their wings and make their choices. This forecast will take effect from 2022, so that there is a reasonable time for both athletes and clubs. The proposed arrangement shall not apply if it is an amateur sportsman or a group of infrastructure belonging to an anonymous sports company, because these constitute costly investments of those companies on talented athletes selected for that purpose. Therefore, a possible early release would overthrow the investment plan of the OLAF, which, of course, in his knowledge and if that athlete joined. The dissemination of control is a key orientation of the entire bill and is also a key competence of the General Secretariat of Sports. In order to serve faithfully this role, the bill introduces control steps of the General Secretariat of Sports, which undertake to exercise on-the-spot control of sports operators. The audit concerns the determination of the accuracy of the entries in the Electronic Register of Sports Entities of any element subject to the law or statutes of sports clubs, associations and federations, as well as other subsidised bodies. The draft law also enshrines the electronic platform "PTILOPAS", which aims to ensure that there is a full picture of sports facilities. It is stated that the registration of the Local Government Institutions - OTAs I and 2 of Grade - on the platform and the registration of sports facilities in it is a prerequisite for their inclusion in sporting programmes for all, as well as in the current financial instruments available to TAs in general for the implementation of projects relating to sports facilities. A separate report is also worth providing for the bill for special regulation of the organization of the World Sports Games 2021. It is an extremely important international organisation that highlights working sport in our country and brings it back to the map of safe international sports events at a pandemic time. All events and sports are therefore regulated in a uniform manner, and provision is made in the context of ensuring the health and safety of participants for the preparation by health organisers submitted for approval to the relevant Health Committee of the General Secretariat of Sports. Having made a detailed illustration of the provisions that make up the coherent - in my view - body of the bill, I conclude my introduction to a bill that acts as an accelerator for modernising sport in Greece. The bill bears the stamps of the long cooperation of all the actors on the issues it regulates. The dialogue table was large and always open, as confirmed and we all lived. So, following the example of the sporting family, I call on all my fellow Members to vote for it so that we too can become its equal and worthy members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u4	And we thank Mr Bartzokas. I would ask that the Step be prepared to get the floor for SYRIZA's rapporteur - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Konstantinos Markos. Here, Mr Marcus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about sport today. The sports model in Greece passes structural crisis, crisis systemic and values. It concerns the way that sport produces political, ideological and negative social stereotypes, the untreated social benefits of sport. The sports model in Greece was never neutral. It is a system that feeds up the climate of individualism, the assignment, the sovereignty of customer relations and factorism. The professional dimension of sport helps to consolidate ideologically and politically and economically the corrupt current political system of the parties, the midiocracy and the intertwined majorists. The crisis in the sport system also concerns the production of enormous value in sport and the way it is distributed, the criteria and the terms of distribution, the opacity and the anti-democratic procedures. Sport is a mechanism for redistributing a large part of the produced wealth without control - gambling, retransmissions, capital movements without control, "black" money - in conditions of diffuse lawlessness, state tolerance, tax evasion, waste with intrinsicity. For this reason, the conditions are combined with a cultivated specific social tolerance, since these often happen in the interest of the group. Finally, we have a sport model mainly undemocratic, which does not guarantee equal conditions in sport for all people without discrimination or for the application of collective institutions in the administration of sporting organisations. The phenomena of the distorting development of societal sport, authoritarianism in the sport system, partyism, customer relations, inequalities between centre and region, between strong and weak economics, fragmented political choices, violence, doping were before the memorials and policies that came from these commitments. In Greece, professional football has evolved into a peculiar field of economic and political interdependence and ideological exploitation. In this context, sport emerges as a question of democracy and culture, of course, for our country, but also for the occasional manifestations of violence in the field of experimentation in the direction of a reduction in the rights and equality of citizens. We are now more specifically coming to this bill. Starting with the famous committee, it is very simple - and we have told the committees, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen - that there were four presiding decrees pending from the Vassiliou Act, which you could issue immediately after taking up the duties and that a new statute should now apply to the committee as a legal person governed by public law with all the advantages that arises. You have preferred two years' delay and, above all, a procedure that is now obvious as regards awards to contractors. You say you upgrade the committee. However, first of all, the Minister appoints members by decision instead of the Greek Parliament. Staff, secretarial, administrative support, accommodation, operating expenses shall be borne by the General Secretariat of Sports. We have proposed that, in order to shield the members of the committee with increased prestige and tolerance to the many pressures they will have, they should be chosen from Parliament, from 3/5 of the House, which means that they will have a strong political foundation. You said, "After Parliament's opinion", that is, you will one day come to the Committee on Culture, you will tell us 'they', we will tell you 'they' and then you will do what you want. This is not an institutional process. You're celebrating the committee. However, you have appointed a seven-member board, which, as you can see, is numerically inadequate, because its members will be invited to carry out a huge volume of work in a short time, about sixty OEMs, thirty OEMs. From now on, until the establishment of the committee and the launch of the new championships, do you think that there will be audits of companies' certificates? It's just a move you'll make and sign. There won't be any control. The resources available shall be mobilised and staff and special scientific staff. So there'll be poor checks. You are supposedly stepping up the committee, but you have set too low limits for the validity of a person's facilitator: five years for Minister, MP, twelve months for arbitrators. If that's possible! We proposed five years. Five years for the managers. We proposed decades. Make the following other alleged upgrade. You are establishing the delegation of external contractors instead of the establishment of the required organic positions and the establishment of the committee as a service. Further major issue arises with the possibility that each public limited company can take part in the Championship if its certificate is not issued or revoked and you impose a degree-retirement penalty. I mean, the team even though he doesn't have a certificate, he's gonna play, he's gonna lose five degrees -- he doesn't have a championship -- and he's gonna go on. Is that an institutional process? Lower the limits of the warranties. Stupid policies. A thousand five hundred soccer players - we have heard it - with many millions who owe them as workers - have heard it in the committees - are equipped with decision-making titles, over 20 million euros. There's someone completely unprotected in every anonymous company who's degrading everything he wants, changes APM whatever it wants, changes a name whatever it wants. Let's see more. You said you applied 101% of the holistic study. To be as I said, noble to you, this is inaccurate. You have applied repressive provisions. You have no provision in the preventive part that the final study specifically refers to in terms of dealing with violence. The introduction of age and term limits that had been excluded from the EEA, the participation of representatives of players in the board, the stricterisation of the framework for the establishment and operation of fans' clubs are deemed to be positive measures. However, it is great to omission for amateur athletes and football players mainly. An attempt was made to cover up the operators' responsibilities and tighten the penalties without additional prevention measures. A big blow is the resetting of the peculiarity. Our speakers will also be particularly concerned about this. They had been applied in the past and failed to celebrate. You have focused on reinstatement in the field of professional sporting an authoritarian, police and criminal control, ignoring the crucial point in the holistic study, as I said. You have forbidden any conversion of the custodial sentence into a provision of socially beneficial labour. A fine excuse you can put forward on this is that we as a government have abolished public service and are waiting for Mr Tsiara's bells on when it will be implemented. You've been spinning society for thirty years. I fear that your arrangements are contrary to European law, the European Convention on Human Rights and the recent protocol, the case law of the European Court of Justice. And we'll find these in front of us. You are violating the principle of proportionality and the principle of equality, while their effectiveness, as I said before, is non-existent. We in the SYRIZA - we have repeatedly said so - condemn all forms of violence. At the same time, however, we recognise that violent behaviour in sport is nothing but a form of human violence, as is reflected in the wider society, namely, outside the field. And we condemn your unregulated effort to have revenge and punishment for the young, who are basically the central persons of this arrangement. Studies have shown that the profile of the participants in episodes and Fields is young people, mainly post-pregnant, who are pushed into hooliganism by a variety of socio-economic factors - mainly because of unemployment, frustration, the dead ends of the new generation, the fanaticism presented by the media, where behind are the factors and the social media, the fanatical newspapers, the merchandise of sport, etc. The theorists of the science of Sports Law argue that given the young age of most perpetrators of crimes the effectiveness of prison sentences, both in terms of general and special prevention, is small. Experimental judges have said that due to the tightening of sentences they are reluctant to condemn. And that's one of the problems. And they will lead the perpetrators to penitentiaries, which you know are educational institutions of greater lawlessness. On the contrary, we amazedly saw a penalty of only six months to those through the press or the Internet inciting, inciting, organising acts of violence on the ground. Slow down morals, stimulants, and send to the executive the young men who are executives. Let us look beyond the mergers and football. I told the committee that there is no greater confession of your policy that with pride you have expressed that almost a thousand groups are waiting to be judged to join the soccer register. And the question is: How did you do elections? What elections did you make in the NDP when a thousand groups wait for them to join the register and obviously did not vote? Of course, there is a huge problem in football, only that they vote associations and not unions. You'll say we have a problem with UEFA. But there, you need to take the initiative. Because if the unions vote, which means multiple participation, it also means reducing the possibility of interacting. You didn't see it. Of course, we agree on the merger of Super League 2. However, the sustainability of groups is something that makes us skeptical. There are studies with reservations. Therefore, this issue should be tormented a little more, the sustainability of the thirty-six groups. In any case, we are in favour of the merger, in favour of increasing the share capital to EUR 500,000 for Super League 1 and EUR 250,000 for Super League 2, as well as the amount of the guarantee letters, which we would like to see higher. You told us in committee that you were also preparing a second group at Super League 2 from the parents who participated in Super League 1, with some advantages that are understandable and can be discussed. However, the huge problem is this: because the subsidiary group at Super League 2 - I told you, Mr Generally, and you - will not be able to get a champion and raise a charge, it is a question of what its role will be in this championship. Each team is claiming the best. And the best is the championship. If things are forbidden to come out as a champion and assemble, then her role will be a role - if I may - and to ride the games in this championship. Perhaps a greater outbreak of pheasantness will be created than the problems that exist. We're not England. For the EEC, I would remind you that the director of the EEC, the President, has not answered us any questions. You have an obligation to answer. You said to the committee - contrary to the rapporteur's draft - that the executive director will be proclaimed, that his position will be declared. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance if I may. If that is the case, it is a positive development. The President of the EEC did not answer and I ask you: How are we going to go in two months to the Olympics? Has there been a EEC budget? Is the EEC working? Are our athletes going to control anti-Doping before the Olympics in Qatar? In three, four months, we'll fill out a year, Mr. General, you're present, where our lab doesn't work, the lab that we made sure to go to "Dimokritos" to upgrade. Is Qatar running our athletes? We are now going to the subject of sports coaches and much more to the hot theme of football coaches. The provisions have never been consulted. I guess you're afraid of reactions. You have established an alleged equivalence of the BSE licence with the main football qualification with the UEFA B football coach license awarded by the SSU. You are equating a paperwork for some hours with the university's degree. So we have an unsettled twin on this issue. Kerameo equates the diplomas of the Polytechnic with colleges and Augeias equates the diplomas of TEFA - SEFA with the NIO and its seminars. I ask something obvious: are these coaches who manage children and young people in training? Can these coaches handle young people? Apparently not. All the TEFAs, the contributors and their contributors, the TEFA of Thessaly, the TEFA of Aristotle, the Democritus, have a universal opposition to it. Of course, you invited a number of people to the consultation. And he came a spokesman for the NCA, who directly lied about cooperating with TECHA. Thessaly does not cooperate and there is also paper that there is no cooperation. He told us that he was cooperating and that with Democratio he worked together for a year and collapsed. And that's inaccurate. And you brought it to committee - because you said that you have been consulting - an amazing guy, a president who has been going to take two years of age to reach your "eagle" - I put it in the introductory language to avoid misunderstanding - Vassilopoulos in basketball and who has been the president of a coach union since 1988, to support your opinion. I'd say it was a little low your choice. Practical what does it mean? One who has a postgraduate degree or a doctorate has fewer rights than a veteran footballer in high school or high school. One characteristic is that in our question a representative of the NRA did not answer how much the NCA's revenues from these seminars for coaches are. It's a lot of money! And that's where you looked cowards. However, we want to say that we are positive with the provisions governing the projections for 'ERGANIS'. It is something that is a hit on black work and we agree with that. We agree with the introduction for the first time of the 1% contribution in favour of the insurance of the athlete, even though it could be even more brave. We are in the negative to maintain the dual translation period and to allow for free transfer of amateur artists to be completed in the 19th year of age. In other words, with the exception of amateurs belonging to a club with a company, you allow anonymous companies to bind talented athletes, but also to "hit" athletes from smaller clubs. Immortality must be protected. We propose to you - and you do not accept it, while the one who proposes to you - that the transcriptions should be adjusted on the basis of the free transfer every two years and according to the age categories of children, children, adolescents, pagodas, corpses, young people and young people, that is to say 12-13, 14-16, 16-19, 20-22, and every two years that the transcriptions should be free. We are pleased to hear - and especially about the double regeneration of the Botanic - on the issue of the provision of a small percentage for the amateur Panathinaikos. Do not overlook our predictions and the risk bell: The World Championship of Work Sport is a huge scandal in its birth, which you advertise like Olympiad and Paralympic. If that's possible! Really? It is an NGO that has no right to organise any sports events and does not have the prerequisites for the organization, and you advertise it like Olympiada. You know, once you go ahead with this, we'll get out on the tiles. Let's be honest! Finally, I will submit to you the documents from the TECs which give their opinion on the issue of football coaches I mentioned earlier. I would also mention that we have tabled an amendment to which we are asking, due to the fact that the ETUC does not give guarantees to graduates to operate as football coaches, the non-application of the 2020 law by the ETUC and the football clubs to be an infringement of the rule of law and that this infringement provides for a fine of EUR 100 to 300 000 by decision of the General Secretariat of Sports. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Marcou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u6	Thank you too, Mr Marcus. The reason is the special speaker of the Movement of Change, Mr. Dimitris Konstantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill comes at a time of crisis for Greek football and especially for Greek sport. Besides, the pandemic shaped new data and particularly hit the amateur sport found in lockdown over a year. At this point in time, the state's task is to provide effective support for athletes and sports clubs, with the adaptation of course to the new data. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill focuses on football, while at the same time it includes important arrangements for the correction of Greek championships, coaches, amateur clubs, as well as the use of sports facilities. The first part of the bill provides for changes in the structure of the Committee on Professional Sport. Ladies and gentlemen, operational independence is accorded to the committee, which, of course, is not subject to any supervision and control of feasibility by any governmental body. Its members will be appointed by decision of the Minister after Parliament has delivered its opinion, and its resources will come from the General Secretariat of Sports, as will the staff to be seconded by the committee. In other words, Mr Minister, you want this committee to function as an independent authority without, of course, being an independent authority. Take your conclusions. However, I would like to point out here that the main question for the committee is to ensure its independence from any political or sporting body. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, for its independence the immunity which is being introduced is not enough. On the contrary, I would say that it creates several ambiguities. Observations, too, also creates the framework of its competences which may even lead to football penalties for groups, such as the removal of grades. Minister, you have been told by bodies that it is essential that there should be control over the teams in an effective way and not, of course, to be charged with unnecessary bureaucracy. Furthermore, Article 6 enables groups to rebuild the sports facilities rented by the public and to offset those costs with rent. It is a provision that can help upgrade public sports facilities that often present an abandonment picture. It is a positive proposal, Minister, subject, however, to the ministerial decision to be adopted, to take into account the economic and technical data of the constructions, and this is to ensure the public interest. I come to the second part of the draft law on harmonisation with the holistic study of FIFA - UEFA for Greek football. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that an amendment to reform penalties was tabled in January 2020 in cases of breach of the legislation on ownership. It was a legal provision regulating directly football issues. On 25 February 2020, the Prime Minister, if you remember, met with the representatives of FIFA and UEFA and signed the Memorandum of Cooperation, where the holistic study was agreed to be carried out. On a question with my colleague Mr Loverdo in November 2020, we asked you, Minister, to inform the House of the content of the cooperation memorandum, a question you have never answered. So today you are bringing about changes to harmonize with some of the proposals in the holistic study, and this is particularly about clubs and fans' movements, as well as the treatment of sporting violence. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that we need to modernise the institutional framework for fan clubs, and that is, of course, for them to function legally and be recognised by the teams. Likewise, we must move the organized fans in a clear and well-known way, so that we can have fights with fans from both groups, that is to say, we do not have the poor and bad picture of empty bells. Ladies and gentlemen, the phenomenon of sporting violence must be eliminated and, in the event of incidents, their responsibilities must be attributed. As a measure of pressure, Minister, do you reinstate the particular crime, which is, in fact, what is it? Do not convert the sentence through suspension, i.e. the inability to convert the suspension of sentences. However, Minister, the tightening of penalties is not enough for such a complex problem - and you know it well - which, of course, also has a social dimension. I would say that a different culture needs to be cultivated in society that will naturally start through school, with a view, of course, to promoting fair play, fight, democracy and transparency in sport. Besides, Minister, we have an institutional framework today, which is adapted to the McColin Convention. So if the penalties were the solution, the problem of violence would be solved or solved for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to the third part of the bill. We have the restructuring of the categories of professional football. Football League is repealed and is associated with Super League 2. However, the Super League 2 teams are obliged, according to the bill, to deposit a EUR 100,000 guarantee for their participation in the Championship. Furthermore, they are required to shape their share capital at EUR 250,000 and include in each matching card at least 50% of the players, which should be Greek, that is to say, who will be able to participate in our national team. This is an important proposal and I welcome it, because it is also supported by Greek football and by Greek football. After all, the Super League and Football League were in line with this restructuring. Minister, in fact, the changes are great, with repercussions - I would say - both racing and economic. It should therefore be necessary here to support Greek footballers and, of course, Greek football. At the same time, however, Minister, the new framework must also support the sustainability of inclusive groups, discrimination, and this must, of course, take place on an equal footing, a level playing field for all groups. In the regulations for the National Anti-Doping Agency, doping, which is essentially the great scourge of sport, the adaptations to harmonisation with the WADA Code are our country's obligation. As far as the Agency is concerned, it is of course obvious that it must be equipped with appropriate resources and, of course, with staff, so that this agency can be effective. However, Minister, for the staff of the Agency, the staff must be recruited through open procedures, with transparency and dignity, as I pointed out the previous time in the ratification of the WADA Code in December. The establishment of the Agency should therefore be carried out with guarantees of transparency. That is why we have proposed to you - and I and Mr Kegeroglu - that the Committee on Transparency or the Committee on Morphic Affairs be consulted and that, of course, for the choice of the Agency's administration, a proposal which I would say at the outset ensures transparency in the Agency, which I believe is acceptable to everyone. I come to the question of coaches, ladies and gentlemen. The question of coaches would say that it is a "bridge of Arta", it is on the rave - it was raging. So, at some point, the Greek Parliament must decide to deliver Caesar's Caesar to Caesari. I have stressed many times in the past that the state must take seriously the coaches, who have so far been facing serious obstacles to the exercise of their profession, problems which have even increased further in the midst of the pandemic. We have seen, ladies and gentlemen, sporters and coaches in Lockdown cannot receive the compensation from the State because they have been forced to work uninsured for years, i.e. experience a middle-age working job. It is appropriate, Minister, to put an end to such practices and, in this direction, it is right to provide the draft law on compulsory employment for coaches in every sport, as well as the compulsory conclusion of a written contract with a minimum fee, even to the EUR 250 that you propose. It is also right, of course, to involve a representative of coaches in the federations' boards, which was and remains a constant request. But, Minister, as I have pointed out to you in the committees, we see that when there is no group of coaches, it is not their representative on the board of directors, and - to remind you - respectively, when there is no club of athletes, their representative is appointed by the board of directors. So here, Minister, we have two yards and two weights. Give a solution, even if you expect the coaches to be organized in unions, as you told us in the committee. The result is that until this happens - and if it happens - the coaches will have no representation at all. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the issue of the professional rights of graduates of BSE, which I have already referred to on a number of occasions, particularly on the occasion of graduates who specialize in football. They are scientists with university studies, who cannot work in their specialty if they do not attend the EVO seminars - and very, very high, tuition fees, Mr Scandalidis. This draft law therefore sets three levels of training. CNG graduates shall be placed at the first level, with the exception of those specialising in football. For those graduates with a football specialty, Article 37 states that their professional rights are defined by the NSA, and the NSAs are defined as equivalent to the UEFA B'. This, ladies and gentlemen, means that graduates will be brought back to the UAO seminars on higher diplomas, effectively paying, according to the bill, and 6,000 euros. In particular, the UEFA B diploma is currently awarded to them by the bill, with which they can be coaches up to the first locality. Then, in order to be able to train in the old 2, 3, National or even 1, they should get the UEFA A licence, for which they should pay 1,000 euros. This is where they get a discount, Minister, from what I saw, from 2 000 to 1,000 euros. You and my colleagues can draw your conclusions. Also, to be coaches in Super League, they will have to pay another 5,000 euros to get the UEFA Pro license. Take your conclusions and see where we are driving the graduates of TECA. So, Minister, Greek football must, of course, be in line with European and international standards. At the same time, however, the UEFA Convention binds the SUR, because the SUR is the representative of UEFA in our country. However, for all of us, the award of professional rights to university graduates in our country is a matter for the state and, of course, it is done with the legislation of the State and the qualification framework set by the EEA. This competence, Minister, cannot be attributed to the NCA or to any other body. Therefore, the Ministry should set the framework for the Aluminium graduates with respect to the self-employed. Minister, I suggested that the U.S. Seminars take place within the university course during the last six months of students' study at TEFA. This is because UEFA insists on the certification by the football coach group, making it necessary to monitor these seminars by the TEFA graduates. I propose that these seminars take place within the university cycle, because the teachers who teach these seminars at the ETUC are the same teachers who are at TECA. The inclusion of these seminars in the TECA study programme can therefore give a definitive and final solution to the problem and the UEFA A and UEFA B degrees can be given at the end of the study to the TECA students. So you can and you must solve the problem and solve the Gordian bond. If you do this, you can be sure that you will be written in history, because you will have solved a truly serious problem. We're not going to vote. I'm going to stand on two key points. I say this, Mr Kegeroglu, because if you ask graduates, they are bound and hostage to the conditions they are experiencing today. They cannot teach as coaches in any category even until today in amateur unions. So the two main points. Minister, you should clarify the professional rights of coaches by level of coaching in the field of amateur sport. And secondly, we have also heard from the bodies of serious reservations about the National School of Coaches. The response of the TECA licence cannot be continuously undermined. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to the last part of the bill. The provision of social security for athletes - no one objects - and of course the possibility of free transcriptions. Also important are the recording of sports facilities in our country, so that there is better control and, of course, better management. Also, it is the state's obligation to recognise the offer of our Olympians, as well as the performance of athletes 2019 and 2021, since in 2020, because of the pandemic, we had no struggles. Finally, as far as the regulations for sports clubs are concerned, I consider it necessary to extend the scope for harmonising the statutes of sports clubs to the law. Extension is given to registering, but prohibiting the use of public facilities by sports clubs not registered until 1 September 2021. Here to note once again, the position of the Change Movement - PASOK was and remains clear. The registry must be open without stifling deadlines and without excluding athletes from the training areas. On the amendment you tabled, Minister, the creation of second groups from the Super League 1 OEM and their participation in the Super League 2 championship or the amateur championship - these will decide - can really contribute to the development of Greek football and we welcome it. Of course, as long as the restrictions of the law and the guarantees of transparency are respected. Similarly, the arrangements you bring to clear up sporting public limited companies will not be in a position to disagree. It is very important to ensure the rights of the public and social security institutions, by paying the basic debt through television rights and tickets. I want to stand up to a fact that shocked us all two days ago. I'm talking about the collapse of the Danish football player Christian Ericsen on the field at the time of the race. The presence of doctors and the existence of defibrillator saved a life. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, education has, first of all, been required in the early years of school life. So we're gonna have kids in primary school to take first-aid classes. And of course, there should be defibrillators everywhere in all the sports facilities. In fact, the Change Movement has also tabled a question, calling for defiance in all parts of the country, in public places, everywhere. That's how lives will be saved. Mr Ignace, I put something in your committee and you accepted it. We therefore expect you to implement it with regard to sports spaces, either open or closed. Minister, I am going to refer to Rule 35 on sport for disabled persons and amending paragraph 3a7. Here the formation of a committee refers to the plenary session of the administration of the Hellenic Paralympic Committee. Eleven members participate as follows: four representatives of the Greek Sports Federation of Disabled Persons, a representative of the Federation of Greek Basketballists, three Paralympians in active employment, a representative of the General Secretariat of Sports or the National Accessibility Authority of Persons with Disabilities or of the National Association of Persons with Disabilities, appointed by a decision of the relevant Minister and two personalities from the area of sport. Here, I would say, Minister, in the diabetics "or" to have a member of the National Confederacy of Disabled Persons at all. We owe them that. Minister, we will listen to you and then I will be placed at the outset and on the articles at the end of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Syntakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. This draft law introduces adaptations and modifications which, on the pretext of dealing with bad texts in commercialised professional sport, in practice adapting Greek legislation to the European Union's strategy and demarcating the scope of business action, lays down certain rules in the field of so-called 'professional sport'. In fact, rules are being laid for the competition ball not to be lost between big businessmen, but with a clear aim to facilitate capitalist profitability in this area too. As a matter of fact, therefore, it can be described as a sports bill. Although amateur sport has suffered a great deal of damage to one-and-a-half-year pandemic with the continuing lockdowns, the bill does not deal with supporting amateur sport, with school, labour sport, with strengthening amateur sport, with brave financing of unions and federations. And don't tell me about Article 52 of the organization of working sport matches, because no union, no union, no labour centre, no federation is going to organize such games. It is an NGO that has donors, those who have taken state funding with the workers' money. In other words, you don't even think about dealing with the time problems, such as how to develop each sport, how to increase the participation and access of people and especially young people, about what structures and conditions they need to facilitate their families and children, in order to have access to systematic exercise as a way of life. Even now that we are talking and even though the Pan-Hellenic Games are in progress, the International Miting, after a few days, comes the Pan-Hellenic Championship K -20 Adolescents - Youth in Thessaloniki on 3-4 July in Katadzoglio, after Volos and so on, you have the stages closed for parents, more widely for the world, even for athletes. At the same time, the struggles of professional sport suffocate from people. Besides, we see the pan-European championship full of people, concerts, boats, planes and go by and say. You see, there's money there. Where the profits of the big businessmen gather, the coronary is nonexistent. Finally, open the stages for the people and youth with all the protection measures required. And I'm coming back. Although you admit that in order to combat the phenomena of corruption, lawlessness and interlocutory, effective action at structural level is needed, you are avoiding it from linking it to the structure of commercialised sport that leads to the hunting of profit and is the cause of all these phenomena. Of course, the pursuit of the so-called'structural changes' so as to get it into professional sport is not the new one. Since 2007, the bases of the "White Paper" on sport which is a guide to the European Union have been established to define the immediate and ultimate future of the action of business groups. The aim was to define guidelines and rules for the exploitation of sport for the maximum profitability of capital in this area. After all, the European Union itself values as a commercial product covering 4% of its GDP. Of course, at times all the governments of the New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA and now New Democracy make various arrangements for the entrepreneurial activity of so-called "professional sport" in an effort to gather rot and immunity and to intervene in the state as a balancer with strict penalties, with peculiarity, fines, just to gather a little bit. At a time when the majority of our people are squeezing under the burden of the anti-population attack of all governments, of the successive memoranda, as well as of what you are preparing, the super-European memorandum is a precondition for favouring the monopolistic groups of EUR 72 billion of the Recovery Fund, while you deprive basic rights of work, health, welfare, insurance and forcing the people to live with crumbs, we as a JRC do not consider it a luxury to deal with the issues of mass folk sport to guarantee the right to physical education and sport. It is necessary for the people and young people. Our country has thousands of amateur unions, millions of people dealing with it, such as football players, coaches, agents, referees, academy children. The state and over time all governments, like yours, have been toward them, are absent. Only when it's to show her fence is present. It introduces control - bogeyman of the Registry of Sports Associations, rather than exploiting it as a "bridge" of communication and support of the primary cell, while in this draft law continues the attack on those amateur sports clubs that have not been registered in that Electronic Register, due to the bureaucratic procedures and the financial costs that it required and required. What has finally been done is the so-called "Recreational Sport" to be fully integrated into the model of traded sport and to adopt all its pathogens and cucumbers. The aim here is exactly the same thing, namely profit, what rekindles all this corruption, violence, gambling, betting, illegal and legal, making control incompetent. More specifically, this draft law also facilitates and strengthens what we call 'good sport'. In relation to the Committee on Professional Sport, instead of the Government, like all the governments, accepting the JRC's overtime proposal to transfer the OSCE from the Ministry of Culture and Sport to the Ministry of Development, which is where their control should be carried out as public limited companies, under the present rules it is doing the opposite. No decision or act of the Committee on Professional Sports, i.e. contracts, loans, sponsors, advertising companies, seasonal ticket sales, and goes on to say, they are not notified to the Ministry of Development in full contrast with the current ones. Furthermore, the Committee on Professional Sport is not subject to any kind of supervision or control of legality or feasibility by the Ministry or the General Secretariat of Sports or any other governmental body. Its members enjoy full personal and operational independence, enjoy the impunity. The creation of the Committee on Professional Sport, which is financed by the Greek people's money, is, on the one hand, only to form a shell of protection for public limited companies and their profits and, on the other, to put the well-known "shall" on the "theirs" that collide in space, as well as rules on the sharing of prey. And as we all know, the law of the mighty prevails, "the big fish will eat the little" and always the cause sanctified the means, giving even more air to the sails of the great business interests. Also, with rules, with clauses, with letters guaranteeing and with various other tricks, such as those of so-called sample checks, and not regular checks, sports companies are circumventing their obligations towards players, coaches, even even to the National Council for the Combating Doping, the National Organisation for the Combat of Doping and the National Science Research Centre and the sports federations. The main aim is to be to be able to participate in professional football mainly in the professional basketball teams with a high economic budget, which facilitates the entry of teams from large business groups. Here we are no longer talking about 'principals' which create problems with debts and the sale of VAT and so on. We have to be England. Teams have to withstand the tightening of sentences to get the episodes out of the stadiums. However, Greece is a small market and the AIFs and the OEMs enter in if that happens. They will not have the corresponding revenue, the expected revenue. This is why the state is reigning as a regulator of the game, especially the illegal one. In fact, now, this bill allows, while the current scheme was prohibited, sports anonymous companies, agency owners, prognostic matches or betting, their spouses and their second-degree relatives to acquire shares. This is what is termed 'progress'. The shortest joke is that it is a question of the government's so-called attempt to establish rules on the 'TIFM' and the involvement of these companies with the OEMs. In relation to the provisions on harmonisation with the proposals of the FIFA-UEFA holistic study on Greek football, they are the provisions of the "phase". And we say this, because it focuses on issues such as the time of electing an administration of the ETUC, the clubs of fans and the organised movement of fans, the criminal treatment of offences on the occasion of sports events, the treatment of suspected manipulation of racings, but it leaves to the unavoidable cause of the threats and manipulation of games, corruption and violence, which are the inexcusable commercialisation of football and the handing over of one otherwise polite sport to a handful of big businessmen. In other words, those who create armies, fan clubs, fans and manipulate football as a whole through the control of associations from representatives of which the members of the administration of the NGO are elected, who make use of betting and, more generally, gambling around football and their games, as well as for the maintenance of the teams and the army they create. You grant "gift" to businesspeople who are lyinating professional sport, which will contribute negatively to the treatment of violence by abolishing the provision of objective civil liability for acts of their fans that took place during sporting events. The JRC on offences of violence is particularly sceptical of the peculiarity of offences related to violence on the grounds of sporting events. In practice, stricterisation and to the extent that traded sport is not abolished, strengthens the repression and reduction of rights at risk in the course of the extension of the measure to others, other than sports and football, situations. In relation to the reform of the institutional framework of coaches of sports, another bill does not ensure that the Physical Education and Sport School or an equal university recognized by the State, namely those holding a four-year university degree in physics and sport, must also be the only condition for the profession. It affects professional rights, dignity and the professional course of at least sixty-five thousand students and graduates. Of course, we have never been opposed to being exploited as coaches and athletes with long-term Olympic experience, but we have always been under the examination and approval of university schools. However, we do not forget that by way of a previous draft law from September 2020 you have opened the ferry to grow like mushrooms domestic or foreign private training schools, which of course are interconnected with business interests that want to invest in the field of sport. The bodies, when listening to the bodies, but also those who have sent letters, feel insulted and indignant by the fact that it legislates your state, your state, the assignment of a private championship, that is to say, to define professional rights of graduates of educational institutions. It is a blow to public and free education, to the professional rights of graduates, to the health of athletes, to exercise and to physical education and to sport in general. The JRC shares their disagreements and supports their struggle for the protection of professional rights, the upgrading of the coach, the strengthening of the country's CCIs, the education training and the exclusive responsibility of universities. The Faculty of Physical Education and Sports, or an equivalent foreign student recognized by the State, namely those holding this university degree, must be the only ticket to the profession. As a JRC, we have called for these provisions to be withdrawn. We haven't heard. We have tabled an amendment to implement the provision of Article 31 of Law 2725/1999, which states that ‘Beyond authorisation by the State, the practice of the coach's profession is not subject to the approval or other equivalent restriction of another body’. The Greek Football Federation refuses to apply this provision, insisting on abducting the recruitment to football clubs of university football coaches, who are even licensed to practice the coach's profession by the relevant department of the General Sports Secretariat. In fact, it is not just that, but the representative of the ETUC at the hearing said things that do not apply, misleading the House and the sports world. The NCA lies that I have worked with the TECA and more specifically with the Trikala TECA for the establishment and operation of a Training School that provides UEFA ABC degrees. It is also a disgrace that TEFAs only do six months of a soccer lesson when the graduate with a football specialty has been taught in a natural presence of at least two and twenty-four hours only the object of football in our country. It has devoted more than four hundred hours to two semesters of specialization for work and study and practical specialty for the fourth year that is not directly linked to football specialty and students do at least three hundred hours of practice in clubs, academies, clubs. Also, from its representative's own words in the hearing, it proves that UEFA's programme for ninety hours of theory and action followed by the EPA is much less than those of the TECA. The worst part is, however, that in the ninety-hour theory and act, plus ninety-hour UEFA practice to acquire all EBA class diplomas, maintained by the EBA, includes teaching of issues of Biological and Social Sciences applied to sport, while at TEFA they are taught during the four years. During the four years, apart from football, another fifty lessons of sports science and much more are taught. I am presenting to you in Minutes the letter of protest by the Dean of the School of Physical Education of Sports and Dietology of the University of Thessaly. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Syntrakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] That is why the NCA refuses to apply the provision of Article 31 of Law 2725/1999. And on the basis of this refusal by the NRA to implement the provision, football clubs refuse to go on recruiting football coaches who have university education degrees. Of course, there are provisions of the draft law that legalise the practice of the NRA. In other words, it gives sails to the NRA so that the provision of Article 31 does not apply to professional rights. Article 37 of the draft law we are discussing introduces levels of coaches, whereas Article 38 introduces rules that, by way of derogation from the rules laid down in Article 31 of Law 2725/1999, the transition to the UEFA A diploma is carried out through the participation of stakeholders in the training schools of the UFO with a 50% discount on the fees paid. It is just a matter of seminars in private schools that operate under the responsibility of the NRA and the follow-up tuition fees are extremely expensive. For these very reasons, we say that a provision should be passed - an addition which provides for a fine of EUR 100,000 to EUR 300,000 for the failure to implement the provision of Article 31 of Law 2725/1999, but also for the removal of the provision in paragraph 4b of Article 38 of this draft law. There are other provisions, and we will probably be given the possibility and later on in the second instance. In any case and in conclusion, and this bill is not really athletic. In practice it comes to save, protect and enhance the immunity of businessmen in the football field. In this respect we are voting against the draft law in principle and, more specifically, on the articles, I will see you in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u10	And I thank Mr. Synergy. The special speaker of the Greek Solution Mr Constantine Boubas has the floor. The "b" would change, and we would be consistent! Here, Mr. Booba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we have said in committee, there are quite a number of questions raised, because, as in every bill, the detail makes the difference and in order to hide a point of view, we have to have some clarification. I would then ask you some questions, and I hope you will answer or at least clarify them to us, such as what will happen with the second groups with the merger between Super League 2 and Football League, as these second groups will have the right to take part, because others are asking the organizing authority and you are introducing something else with this amendment. But some questions are coming in. Questions are also raised because you have also received some letters from some trade unions mainly of martial arts, such as judo, which we will see a little below, but also from some clubs where we have adult athletes and not minor athletes and are unable to pay the coach's paradox because they do not practice all the time. They train one or two days before the games. There are some particular cases, in particular cases, some exceptions that will be good in a social whole of sport not to neglect them and to see how we can provide solutions and cover these gaps as well. Starting on the bill, what we have said in committees is that it is still a piece of legislation in the many legislations. I was young and old. That is, every three minutes, at least the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Sport are constantly making changes in the legislative framework. Now we have the return of the peculiar name to see what offences have to be punished under the Criminal Code. Of course, the peculiarity is a black political story at the place since the Venizelos era. But you have said here that you will harmonise it with the new provisions on the European or global level, namely UEFA and FIFA, because, of course, companies are public limited companies and must also control and pay and be financially controlled and cannot be charged with all the burden of responsibility alone by the police. At some point, anonymous companies should also assume their responsibilities. Now, as far as the Committee on Professional Sports is concerned, you are making it an independent authority. We in the Greek Solution, like our President Kyriakos Velopoulos, who has submitted the numerous independent authorities in Greece, consider that he is creating a problem for the way it works, but also for how expensive this is, that is, how much it costs the taxpayer to keep having independent authorities. The members of the Committee shall be appointed by the Government. They shall not be considered, prosecuted or held civil liability against any third party for their opinion, for acts or omissions. In other words, it reminds us a little of what we wanted to go through with the ratification of tourism with these specialised World Organisation tourists coming, which is an uncontrolled situation. There is no control here, there is no control, as we see it. Article 3(7)a provides that any person who has been a member of the Committee in the last five years, before appointment, a Member of the Government, a State Secretary or a Secretary-General, may not be appointed. In the previous article - before replacement - it was forbidden for everyone without the five-year time limit. What makes you change it now? Is there going to be a 'cleaning' or a discharge of responsibility, or does it mean that within five years they may be involved in the professional committee? It is a little reminiscent of the five-year debts, which, if five years have elapsed - the removal of the fund - some debts are being cancelled. That's a figure of speech. Why would anyone who was a Minister or a State Secretary or a political person, be a Member of the committee? Renounce this participation because it is a political person and questions arise. If you'd like, there'd be reasonable suspicions. We must now go to Article 4 for the responsibilities of the Committee on Professional Sport, for the checks. In paragraph 2a - there are many articles, of course, and they are mainly procedural - an audit is carried out in the AUE and so on to shareholders with at least 20%. So you're putting a 20% limit on it. If anyone has shares of the order of 19%, that means a 'click', he won't be checked? It is a 'blue', Mr Minister, as is paragraph 2c, which states that the check is to be completed within forty-five days. Before the replacement, the deadline was one month, thirty days. Why are we going forty days for forty-five days, that is, we're giving a longer deadline, I don't know. Did you see that this check cannot be completed within one month and this extension is given? Articles 5, 6 and 7 are procedural articles. We must go on the substance and because of the time. However, with regard to Article 8, by studying the paragraphs, we see that we do not have many controls. Should there not be any checks? Is there anything horrific about the controls on the legislative framework you bring? That question arises. With regard to Article 9 for the holistic study of FIFA and UEFA setting out this new framework in Greek football, it weakens the Executive Committee and strengthens professional football. That's true. But here we are going to go on a very important issue with regard to the bill, the fan clubs. Right now from the hundred and fifty fan clubs, as I have read in the last few days, ten to fifteen in number are the ones that are lawful. That's a truth. The point is to have control over clubs, to have the nominal ticket, to have that name, if you want to bring it back, in line with European rules in order to avoid past phenomena. Of course, I would say that the peculiarity from the times of Orphan that went to apply was abolished by a predecessor, a man of basketball, sport, Giannis Ioannides, who said that he can control and not demonise the situation from the point of view of the OAUs, whether they have a great responsibility or through cameras, through the nominal ticket. It is enough there to set some fair criteria, because the peculiarity is certainly related to the Criminal Code with some crime, with some criminal act. The elections of the Greek Federation say they will take place in the year that the Olympic Games are taking place. As far as the competent court is concerned, of course, it becomes a competent court in paragraph 6 and in Article 12. However, on the subject of clubs - before going to finances - in Article 13, I will remain in paragraph 1, where the word 'compensation' is added. The sentence recognised as referred to in paragraph 3 shall be added, i.e., if not recognised, not be required to facilitate - you say - the work of the police authorities. These unions should in every way help to prevent acts of violence. In paragraph 8, however, words such as the'multimedia' are amended, which becomes simple'multimedia'. In other words, as regards fans, who should not be fans, they should not be sterile fans, one-sided fans, but they should be fans - I kiss sport, I love sport, hence the word - the concept of organised movement is changing. In the new concept you include the possibility of transporting tourist buses, as well as passenger cars for private use and organised travel, the possibility for sports clubs to buy and non-named tickets to enter certain fans into the guest stands is added. The legislator here provides for a number of strict criteria, strict conditions, such as the notification of the nominal list to the police authority or movements only of members of the fan club. It defines a strict framework, but in case (b) it is observed that the owner, the hirer and the means of transport are responsible for a breach of prohibited movement, if they know that they had illegally organised movement. This arrangement before it wasn't just for the owner. Now that extends to two other faces. In other words, here we see that certain persons are being dismissed, and it is now certain that in the event of an infringement they will claim 'I have not seen them, I have not known them'. It's just things. The simple thing is, of course, difficult to say. As far as Article 14 is concerned, the word'sport background' is added to the words 'in the case of violence'. Before we go to Article 16, I would like to raise another point about fan clubs, which you say that if there is no business in fan clubs it is not compulsory to keep books of revenue and expenditure. I told you in committee too. You see this lisverism made by some fans - I'll tell them fans - who are in charge of possibly or at least affecting situations. It is in cooperation with the OAU, and there are membership subscriptions, because let us not be fooled to maintain and a club has its operational lenient expenses. If there is no revenue - expense control, there are also some souvenirs sold by the teams, some will'support', say it that way. Some will put black money in their pockets if there is no financial control, because there is also the so-called superficial entrepreneurship or underground entrepreneurship, which will not be seen, that is to say, it will be a move through subscriptions if there are no revenue and expense books to sell some refreshments, possibly something else in the clubs and some will do a good money. Will you tell me that in a little club of a few members, what's it gonna make? It doesn't matter. It's an illegitimate energy. In large clubs, however, members are quite enough and you realize that the amount can be large. Article 16 provides that a committee is now a committee responsible for the surveillance and control of toys. Before it was the Committee on Professional Sports. There is also an addition to paragraph 4 concerning the possibility of switching an event time or postponing. I am here in the event postponed because this decision is taken by the Minister responsible for sport. We see, in other words, a involvement of the Minister and such issues. We, as a Greek Solution, wanted there to be a larger Vendalian and there is no concentration of powers, even in this, in the settlement of time, in the Minister of Sports, so that we do not have a Cretan, we would call a concentration of powers on it. A number of issues need to be resolved, not all of them go by the Minister. For clubs of fans, the regulations introduced are, of course, aimed at transparency, legal functioning. But as we were saying, questions arise about the cost-books. In Article 18 we see amendments to some articles. There is no specific restructuring. Basically, the number of professional groups remains the same, it was undeniable to do this between Super League 2 and Football League to limit some costs. So we saw teams that went down rolls because they couldn't move and travel long distances. Now of course you are putting this guarantee letter from EUR 100,000 to EUR 250,000 and I do not know - the Minister is gone, I will ask him again - if he has gone plus 100,000. Definitely the guarantee needs because soccer players have to be paid if the teams are battered. The factors, the carers, the suppliers and the private securiti must of course be paid. It is a series of professions for an organised OEM in European standards. Now, if you say that within a short period of time after the end of the championship, we will go to a new guarantee letter with an increased amount, that sounds good. Just keep in mind that in the last two years the groups have not had any revenue. They didn't make tickets, they were off the streets because of the financial crisis. So we need to see it. The minimum share capital involved in this category - as we have said - is increasing from EUR 100,000 to EUR 250,000. Information says he's going to go plus another 100,000. I don't know if that's true. You should tell us if it goes to 350,000. It's just good to have the guarantee to have a boldness, to have a good person. That is, the group cannot be guaranteed. That's for sure. But, from there on, because of the economic situation, we can give an extension of time to increase the guarantee letter in respect of their share capital. We have in Article 30 the Committee on Exemption - you say - for treatment purposes. We note that the members and specialist scientists of the Commission are increasing Exclusion of Use for EEC-Training Purposes from three to five in the new paragraph, which can only be considered reasonable as it covers a significant legislative gap. But there was no explicit definition of who decided on the demands of fans, which meant that they would not even increase the demands. The reservations are general because of the tragic downsizing and not material non-existence of the National Anti-Doping Agency. The Minister is missing, but I will say this: I am pleased that the committee has made a number of proposals which we made as a Greek solution accepted by the Minister. Because it is a concern of the Ministry of Education, a campaign in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, and with other factors such as coaches, such as referees, and some seminars on doping. What we were saying in committee is that in Sweden the General Secretariat of Sports with a three-digit number works and is close to the citizen, who can be in contact and ask about some banned substances. In fact, in some pharmacopoeia there is a manual provided for by all banned substances. So it's good to know a parent, because his child took a formula from a gym - which doping is that - or anywhere. IF's license doesn't say anything. Let's see what's wrong with his health. It is otherwise under the supervision of and the research or medical control of the EOF. They're tangles of these sales. I'm not saying he's illegally moving, not legally moving. The question is what impact it will have. That's good. Good if we want to inform the youth, because there are too many suspicious preparations mainly in some gymnasiums and not just. There are even good preparations in pharmacies. But to know that if he gets a creatinine, what impact it has. Maybe the companies are good, but we need to see this. And I am glad that it is in the initiatives to do this so that we can really lay the foundations if we want to talk about anti-doping. Because doping is always a step before. In fact, the studies say that we will go to a new doping in the coming years, which will be very difficult to detect, because it will be genetically modified, and that is what concerns us. Because they'll infiltrate a number of sports performance genes, they'll be isolated by some doctors, etc. The Minister is here. I would like to ask you, Minister, - so as not to go too far, we have said this in committee - about what you want to do with the second teams at Super League 2 in European standards. On the one hand, it is good that the guarantees for footballers are given to be used in the second groups, to acquire an experience. On the other hand, of course, the organising authority says that television rights should not be shared - that was the suggestion they made - and television rights will be shared. These won't be able to raise charges. Is that so? However, I would like to ask you this: Since these teams are going to playoffs - the organising authority said not to play playoffs - is this not a suspect in the so-called "blooded" games that George said in his show? So, a team, as long as it's not going to have a rating interest, wouldn't it help another team rate? And I hope he's not in "FUND" in electronic gambling, because that's where he can just sit and eat more goals. So do you understand? This issue arises and I do not know how busy it has been for you that these groups will not be of grading interest and will be involved. In other words, four groups have already shown interest in participating. The idea would be to have a separate championship. Because the large groups in Europe have second groups, but they will be suspected, "broken" struggles. Because if the second group does not have a gradient interest in going out and there is another'satute' group of the large group that if it comes out, it will be a good one - I do not want to give examples now for reasonable reasons - then one question comes in. Some teams will sit down and lose. I'll just say it. So that's got to worry about how we're going to preserve it. The second part - and I'm finishing up - is what I told you with some unions. There's a big problem right now with some martial arts from where you put the coach schools through the university degrees of TEFA. That's good. But there are some Olympic sports such as the PEGASOS Sports Club in the Judo Drama, who currently has no TEFA coaches to teach. Because it is a club with a lot of discrimination in judo and there are teachers with three and six nanny and they tell me - I don't know if it's true, you see it - that in Europe these teachers can teach. Because in martial arts we don't have a coach, we have a teacher. Will you see that? It's Law 2725/1999. Could it be altered? And a second demand that they put on some other clubs here from the stadium - and they came to Greek Solution too - is that there are some clubs with adult athletes, who are preparing two and three times a year. They go two days ago, because another job people do. Do they have to pay the coach's paradox too? Do you have to say that with the judo to keep over eighty kids without the Olympic sport of judo in Drama, who can't find a TEFA degree with a judo speciality? Because in Physical Education teachers there are some specialties that are hard to find. It's hard to find a Physical Education Coach for judo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Booba. The special speaker of Mera25, George Logiadis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today I would like to say congratulations to the two Greeks who have made us proud, Maria Sakkaris and Stephen Chichipa. I would, however, like all the Greeks, be pleased if we could see our national teams distinguished internationally. I would like to raise a few points on which I think we are all in agreement. The fragmentation and partitioning of politics and society goes hand in hand with fragmentation, violence and involvement in professional sport. Bets, staked games, political and large-scale shareholders interconnect, divides and devaluates the fight. Fixed games, movements of organized fans that create tensions, violence inside and out of the stadiums, vandalized signs on the streets and walls with graffiti groups, the damage of public and private property is all manifestations of immunity and impunity. That's what the pure fan, the pure citizen, wants to fight the state. Let me stress that we are the Greeks of the most unscrupulous and precarious peoples. We need infrastructure, parks, green, organised sports areas. Sons of healthy in the body, our ancestors said. Today's draft law contains elements which, like the insurance of athletes, the fight against doping, and that for teams participating in the A2 national championship of at least half of the players declared on each match and the duration of the championship must meet the conditions for participation in a Greek team of any age category. I shall now refer to the positions of the bodies which we support as a PART25. The National Association of Remunerated Footballers: In the bill that has unfortunately been tabled again, the government ignores the main protagonist who is the football player, the athlete. There must be a substantial and institutional involvement of the PSC in the institutions such as the Board of Directors of the SCO, the Professional Football Commission and the Authorisation Committee. Such a participation would strengthen the Committee's role in particular in relation to OIE debt issues to professional footballers. There are debts to about a thousand five hundred players from 2012 until now above EUR 26 million and no government has done anything about this to date. Reinforce the national registration, configuration and entry into force of all the regulations relating to the relationship between the PPP and the players. The NCA shall take initiatives unilaterally on the labour rights of players. A key and time-consuming position is to strengthen the institutional framework for safeguarding and satisfying the cleared demands of professional footballers against demobilised, changing name and VAT and then regaining the legal nature of an EDP. A standing position is the institutional reinstatement of the MAGP's right to revenue from broadcasting rights and income from betting companies to compensate athletes who have lost money from their teams. Fighting doping, quick decision-making so that athletes are not smashed down that are ultimately justified. The Panhellenic Association of Sports Associations states that it has not been planned to move from federation to another federation the movement of persons. In some federations there is no monthly payroll with any problems that this entails for workers. Ensure regular monthly payroll in some way legislated, separate the payroll of employees of associations seconded to federations for some time so that their payroll is not delayed. Inland rules of the federations. Only fourteen federations have a regulation, the remaining no, while some have tabled a regulation and for some two years it has not been approved without any response. This causes functional problems in the federations. The amount of the grant to a federation shall not be less than its salary. But that happens to many federations. And by the Panhellenic Association of Remunerated Petospheres, a closed pound of eight teams has been created over the last two years, with the amount of the grant being quite large. And the championship teams must be increased so that more athletes can participate for the benefit of the national teams and the competition of the championship, that the teams are raised in the liga from eight to ten or twelve and there is a lower contract for each athlete, as there are professional athletes with very small contracts. From today's draft law is completely lacking in women's sport and there is no programming for its development, while UEFA has put into very high priority, for example, women's football and premiums for this purpose football associations. I will conclude by saying that in the United States of America even the cynicists of the big shareholders understand that the free capitalist market murders competition on the ground. In American football, the NFL, National Football League, players with excellent physical status collide unresolvedly, often sacrificing their health, literally fighting for the victory and glory that brings precedence to Super Boole. But in order to make the championship more exciting and not to win themselves and the same teams, the free market has been abolished by two rules: firstly, no group can exceed a certain amount of total wages and secondly, the best players of the lowest classes are necessarily playing next year in the worst championship team in order to strengthen the weakest teams and their entire championship team. Same goes for NBA, basketball. Should we here, too, learn from this arrangement? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Loyadis. And we are now entering the circle of Members of Parliament. I would ask that the Step and the floor be settled by the Member of the New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kouvelas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after two years of governance of the New Democracy the landscape and sport are changing. Anyone who can't see it, I'm sorry, but others have in mind, but he thinks, it's micro-particular thought, and most importantly, he's possessed by ideological obsession. Sport deserves - I will agree with previous colleagues - unanimity for international discrimination and successes. We did and will proceed to further intervention - reforms that have been a taboo in sport for decades. For the first time, the age limit and the terms of those who run sports federations have been restricted. For the first time, electronic elections were held in the federations. For the first time, the Online Register of Sports Associations has been set up and we are putting an end to club seals so that public subsidies to sports can catch a place. For the first time, the new objective system of "chillos" for celebrity applies to federations. For the first time, we have an online record of all sports facilities in the country. Let me note that we had the pandemic period of direct financial support from the legally registered sports clubs affected by the pandemic by merital and transparent procedures. Here, Minister, I will call for even greater attention to the associations of people with disabilities who have athletes in more sports and the possibility of these being subsidised accordingly, perhaps with other sports clubs. They need unrestricted support from the state and all of our unions. Let me have a personal report here. I am particularly sensitive over time to sport. As a lawyer I've handled a lot of sports cases, I know the issues of in-depth professional sport, having a brother for twenty years a professional basketball player. I had the honour of working with one of the "patriarchs" of sports law in Greece and rapporteur for sport law 2725/99, my late colleague Pantellis Dede, but mainly as a mere fan. I also believe in the sporting ideal, the values that sport promotes, for our children after all. I feel that something changes in the sports landscape especially with the provisions that we are bringing today in this draft law. I believe that very soon we will even be able to go to the court with our children in the next season, see a soccer derby without fear. I would remind you that our sport is protected by the Constitution. So what do we do today? The institutional framework of the Committee on Professional Sport is reformed, on the one hand, in order to eliminate the pathogens of the past and, on the other hand, to exploit administrative experience, practical infrastructure and know-how. As far as its members are concerned, they should henceforth be more open to acceptance, as the competent committee of Parliament, as is the case with other bodies and ECOs, will be consulted. I welcome the fact that today it is legally possible to finance sporting public limited companies for improvements and other infrastructure projects in sports facilities belonging to the public sector. This allows the cost of these projects to be offset by the anonymous sports companies with rents for the use of these facilities. It is an arrangement that finally solves the Gordian link to the use of the "Kayanzogla Stadium" by PAOK PAOK as long as the "New Toumba" is constructed. A reasonable request of PAOK PAOK is therefore accepted at the same time as the largest public stage in Thessaloniki, which will be upgraded. Furthermore, harmonisation is achieved with the proposals contained in the UEFA and FIFA holistic study, following the declaration of intent signed by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis with the Presidents of these international federations. It is updated and modernised the legal framework governing fan clubs, known links, as we used to say. Unfortunately, the phenomena of fanatic violence are very often in Thessaloniki, but also in Athens. Violence will not discriminate either in our favourite teams or in Greek sport. We aim to help cultivate a culture of understanding between fans of different groups, so that the world can finally return to the field. For those who, of course, do not mean to comply there, we are reintroducing the specific criminal offence for acts of sport violence. Perhaps, Minister, it is good to consider in our country the European dogma that has been successful, which says fewer police forces on the stadiums and greater responsibility for organizing, ordering, during and after sports meetings in the teams themselves. It will shed light on any information about mounted games and the relevant complaint platform is created. In addition, municipalities that will not register their sports facilities on the new digital platform "POLOPOS" will not be part of the sports programs for all and other financial tools of the General Secretariat of Sports, another step towards the housekeeping in our country's sports landscape. The restructuring of professional categories in football, with a view to enhancing its viability, adapting to the new economic and social conditions, will now have the Super League and Super League 2, while at the same time, more stringent criteria are laid down for the sustainability and development of the second category of OSCE. Minimum share capital, an increased guarantee letter, half the players declared on the match sheet should have the right to participate in national teams. It is an incision, a development that emphasises the use of talented Greek athletes and thus strengthens our national teams. At the same time, the bill for the first time releases the transcriptions of amateur athletes after the 19th year of their age. The aim here is to elect and limit the commitments so far, excessively at the expense of athletes. So the athlete has the free choice of a union and the opportunity to develop, but the team he was fighting for until then already has a reasonable time, before, to exploit whatever rights he has on the athlete. A major reform, too - at last - the insurance of amateur athletes. They are also regulated in a uniform way topics of the coach's profession, the Coach's Register is being activated, a National School is being set up. Minister, we have discussed the follow-up to a parliamentary question that I addressed to you and indeed the draft law you are introducing, almost satisfying football coaches, graduates of BSE, scientists, that is to say, graduates of the highest school. I would ask you to exhaust any margins available so that scientists in football recognize that they have, that they hold a UEFA A licence. In closing, ladies and gentlemen, for the Mitsotakis Government, it is a duty and an aim to put an end to the depreciation of sport in the eyes of healthy fans, whether we are talking about professional or amateur sport. This draft law is about putting an end to time-consuming illnesses, about making years of demands made by sportists - it seemed this and from hearing the relevant committee - and finally from the theory, ladies and gentlemen, that we should go to practice. We have often seen indictments and intentions, measures, laws being passed, but in implementation we have always had difficulties. The State Secretary for Sports has been doing the opposite for two years. It does not hesitate in the face of political costs and goes ahead. The philosopher - and it is my last words, Mr President - and a Nobel Prize for Literature, Albert Camy, said attributes: 'What I learned about morality and obligations I learned from football'. Many say that in Greece we have sport, especially the football that we deserve. Well, it's time for all this to change and change their minds. I urge you to vote in favour of the bill under discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u16	And we thank Mr. Kouvela. The speaker of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Mr Ioannis Burnus.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Whoever gets bored, ten days sifts too, Mr. Secretary, judging by the months you slaps until you bring this bill, you must get bored with it. Of course, there is also the possibility that you do not know how to ferment, as the result of your previous sports reform, as you say, or deregulation that experienced it and continues to experience it. Let's start with the Committee on Professional Sport. The problematic and obsolete, according to your statement, which, however, you kept alive on continuous prolongations and which, with your suspected interventions, separate Greece in two. And since it was problematic and obsolete, why didn't you use the provisions of Law No4603/2019 of the well-known Royalty law to change it? Why did you not make it an independent authority with its own organogram and organic positions and with absolute independence? Why did you not end the suspicion by setting up a committee that would end political intervention and create an area of transparency and reliability for public limited companies in professional sport? The answer is simple. Because you don't want to, but mostly because you can't. And you can't, because, probably, the bills for payment aren't over. Your legislation continues before Law 4603. A committee of the ministers concerned, closely dependent on the budget of the General Secretariat of Sports, with a licensed patronage against complexity and corruption and stripped of skilled and other personnel. A committee that also operates with external contractors in the event of a failure to cope with its work. Given the general policy of the Mitsotakis Government and your ideological commitment to the sale of public services to private individuals, we are sure that some of your friends will become richer with the stubbornness of direct awards. With regard to the provisions on harmonisation with the holistic study of FIFA and UEFA for Greek football and SC, it is first comforting to you that your Maximo returned the portfolio of football that had been tampering with you for some time. However, while you seemingly had easy work in this field, you managed to incorporate provisions indicative of your government’s doctrine, of authoritarian law and allegedly order. Repeat a tested, dangerous, but also ineffective peculiarity for reasons of impression. You are reducing penalties for those who, through the press or the Internet, are inciting, inciting, organising acts of violence on the ground. You are punishing the stone, not the hand that throws it! We know that the holistic study of the international federations of football mentions the strictness of the already severe penalties. At the same time, however, it also includes proposals that deepen participation and cooperation, consolidate democracy, cultivate equality and combat inequalities. Instead, you have chosen that the state should become a cruel punishment for young people, while at the same time declaring the responsibilities which it might have carried through its actions or omissions for their social marginalisation. In order to restructure the professional categories in football, you are also showing your characteristic handshake, for which, many times in the past, you have speeded up, ex ante, to correct either you or Mr Gerapetritis. The restructuring of the categories in professional football in order to upgrade and become economically viable is something we have worked on and started implementing with a five-year plan until you burned it with great importance from the very beginning of your governance. We're pretty sure your project will fail. And it will fail, because you have not gone ahead with thorough and thorough planning, taking into account important aspects of both the sport and the possibilities of the domestic market. It will fail because critical issues of the new category have not yet been clarified. At the same wavelengths of cuff and communication policy, the provisions for sports coaches are also in motion. If I remember correctly, in August 2020 you put some of them in consultation as part of another bill. You did not take them down and bring them back now without consultation, not even with the involved and affected bodies. Possibly, the consultation was only done with bodies that are frequent in Piraeus and who follow and like on your personal page on social media. Electronic Coach Register. It is the digitisation of the existing register in the General Secretariat of Sports and the conditions and necessary supporting documents are laid down. It does not specify whether all supporting documents are required for the already holders of a trainer's profession or whether registration is to be effected by a simple application and without any additional financial burden. If re-registration is required, will the relevant paradox be paid back? We recall that the paradox is 147 euros, Mr Ausgeakis. Subsequently, the Committee on Balances is again set up and a new National School of Coaches is being set up in the General Secretariat of Sports, which, by your own law, Law No 4726/2020, would be operational at the Hellenic Centre for Sport Research and Technology, the EMAS. What really happened to the EMCDDA? Why did you fail to implement what you voted on? It's a rhetoric. Further clarifications and improvements must be made in the provision setting the levels of coaches. What are the criteria one must meet in order to raise a coaching category? Will IEC diplomats be able to obtain an A-graduate licence and train with CSTD graduates? What will happen if there is no or numeric deficiency of level A and B coaches in some sports taking part in mobilised championships? In any case, it is at least hypocritical that you have chosen to bring in a framework for those coaches who regulate their business on the side and in some cases unfavourable, such as for CSR graduates with a football specialty, at a time when due to the prolonged and unjustified locking that you put in sport a large number of coaches is unemployed and I fear that this figure will be raised next September. Unfortunately, the unions of accumulated economic problems, due to the health crisis and the lack of substantial support from the Mitsotakis Government, will not be able to recruit coaches. And if you yesterday decided to pay coaches and workers for the day off, be sure that people of sport especially and the Greek people in general do not share your view or your morality. Mr. Aygeakis, your term of office is a thrombo-embolic episode in the history of Greek sport. That is why when the time comes, both the world of sport and the Greek people as a whole will give you the rest of the day off.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Burnus. Mrs Sophia - Heido Asmakopoulou from the Greek Solution is now speaking and immediately after the speech the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Scandalides, will be given the floor. Mrs Ahmakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the sport sector offers ideal standards for young people, as it pushes them into a creative occupation, in a struggle for a lasting effort to reclaim ever higher and higher performance. In professional sport the situation now seems irreversible. We are now far away from the right sporting spirit and the pursuit of successes based only on personal effort. The sport industry is without objection today from the most powerful economic enterprises. However, the pandemic, which affected and continues to affect all areas of life, has affected, as expected, sport. The social distance measures introduced to limit the spread of the coronary had a significant impact on professional sport. The absence of fans from the stands and the major financial losses from the racing day receipts created a suffocation regime for the king of sports and, more generally, for the global sports industry. According to the World Economic Forum, the global value of the sports industry is estimated to be $471 billion in 2018, with an increase of 45% since 2011. Prior to the occurrence of the coronary, the revenue course was estimated to be significant upwards. In a recent UEFA report, which mentions a brutal interruption after twenty years of uninterrupted development, it says that the coronary pandemic and its consequences are expected to cost European football clubs EUR 8.7 billion. This is, as you can see, an inaccurate damage. As far as this draft law is concerned, it begins with the expectation that the institutional framework of the Committee on Professional Sport will be reformed. And we are talking about expectation, because we very much doubt that what you publish will become reality. Let us remember that this is a committee, which is not subject to supervision and any control of legality or feasibility by the General Secretariat of Sports, the Minister for Culture and Sport, or any other body of the Government, of course, other than matters of administrative nature, on which the Minister responsible for sport will be supervised. We have stressed and stressed the great vagueness which arises from the Committee's powers, which will, in its opinion, be able to address recommendations and suggestions to anonymous sports clubs and sections of paid athletes. You say below about sports facilities and the ability of anonymous sports companies to finance the building, reconstruction, repair or maintenance of sports facilities. What, however, should we begin with the cracked and forgotten ornaments of our country? What can we say in particular about the multi-faceted Olympic facilities, which have a whole picture of abandonment and depreciation, despite the fact that they have cost Greek citizens a lot of money? The deterioration in facilities, zero maintenance and plundering of their equipment were even an example for the next countries that took over the organization of the Olympic Games. Looks like you like that picture so you can have it left to their luck. As far as sporting violence is concerned, which occurs mainly in group popular sports, such as football, basketball, etc., where there are organized team fans and mass psychology works, you refer to the fact that the framework of organized fans' movements will be reformed and measures against sport violence and corruption will be more intensive. The causes of athletic violence are many. The commercialisation of sport and hence the pursuit of victory by every means, the tolerance of fanaticism and grouping, the continuing complaints of favourable arbitrations are some of them. The phenomena of sports violence between fans of opposing groups in recent years have increased dramatically throughout the country, and in many cases they have not been lacking in human lives. This is a phenomenon that needs to be tackled at its root. Sport education can and should be a key way of dealing with long-term violence in sport. Clearly, we disagree with allowing the Finance and Sport Ministers to freely adjust their share capital thresholds, as well as with the fact that by a joint decision of the Minister of Finance and the Minister responsible for sport, the level of the infringement is to be determined as a justification for an announcement of the coach's occupation. That's enough, overpowering! With regard to the operational strengthening of the National Doping Control Agency, we consider that doping is in direct contrast with the retaining heritage in the field of morality, because victory has always been considered immoral in a fight using unacceptable means. This came to a clear contrast with fundamental ideals and values of sport, the main of which was and is still the noble one among the athletes. His causes are many. However, the solution to the problem still seems very far away with the policies you are following, so that this critical phenomenon is not only perpetuated but also gigantic. At every opportunity we stress - and we will continue to do so - the need to provide incentives for those Greeks who left our country to be able to work during the economic crisis. We in the Greek Solution believe that sport is an idea that comes from the depths of man and is one of the most noble manifestations of his soul. That is why, when this idea is implemented and taken into the field, the responsibility of all players in sport is serious and great. It is high time, finally, that sport's morals cease to look like utopia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u20	And I thank Mrs Asmakopoulou. Please take care of the Step and why the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Kostas Scandalidis, will take over. Let me say that Mr Kegeroglu and Mrs Sakova on the list will speak as soon as the Conference of Presidents is finished in which they participate. Here, Mr. Scandalides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u21	Minister, on the principle of finally welcoming a relatively comprehensive legislative intervention from your Ministry. It does not, of course, recommend a comprehensive reform, but some gaps and important ones - I would say - are matters. You have been used to us all this time in late-night amendments and last-minute regulations, with the aim of making an intimate contribution to the electoral procedures and the statutes of federations. The fact that he came - at last - a draft law even fragmentary in some parts of it is a positive step. One general remark: Sport should have been the field of understanding of all the political parties in the country. Sport is not a party, it is a social asset. No one is allowed to try to quantify and trade social values, such as sport. The responsibilities of all governments are clear, so that we can be honest with each other. In the last two years, however, we have witnessed an attempt to come up with a party of sport and even of amateurs, we have witnessed an effort by every Minister to put his own seal independently of the real needs of the space, regardless of the real needs of the athletes - professionals and non-professional workers in the field of sport and generally regardless of the needs of the whole society. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] The draft legislation now: I am starting from the Committee on Professional Sport. After one year's relics, you bring in a theoretically changed institutional framework. In June 2020, it was the first time in this Chamber that you brought in an extension of the term of office of members of the Committee on Professional Sports by three months, noting then that 'this is necessary to run the professional championships next year, but it is done in a context of outdated and particularly problematic that will change immediately', that is what you said. It's been a year for your immediate action. Since then, of course, the term of office of members of the committee has been extended, with the last one provided for in this amendment until 31-10-2021. Let us hope that we will not become a witness to another extension after October. The Committee is a pragmatic independent authority. The Government is trying to present it as such, but it is not the case, as its members are appointed by the relevant Minister in a simple opinion of the House. In other words, the members the government wishes will inform the House and whether or not the House agrees, they will be appointed as well, as they will be the Minister's choice. The provision, however, gives full personal and operational independence to the members of the committee. They will not be subject to supervision or control of legality or feasibility by any governmental body. The immunity of its members and their irresponsibility vis-à-vis the Greek State is established, unless there is fraudulent or serious negligence and, at the same time, its economic and operational independence does not exist, as the resources remain from the General Secretariat of Sports - either economic or human resources - few. So what exactly independence are you talking about? It's a matter of investigation. You could, of course, add to the provision of support to Members from 3/5 of the House, so that the members of the committee enjoy a relevant cross-party consensus. With regard to the tightening up of the institutional framework of penalties for sport offences, the well known 'principal', i.e. there is no suspension or conversion of the sentence, a provision in force previously and abolished. The context of the restrictive conditions which the prosecutor may impose in the proceedings for offences of sporting violence is also abundant. In fact, this is a cruel instrument that will now punish the inexperienced in and out of the stadiums. If you ask me as a fan, you do well to bring the specialty and I think that's how anyone who can't go to the court or can't go to the sports field should feel. The big bet is, however, how it will help the system itself not to be led back into a similar criminal act. Any change in the legislative framework for it to be a success must be combined with other initiatives and not just in the context of repression. The cultivation of a different culture, as well as proper information, must start from school, where children from an early age must be nurtured with the athletic ideal and, in any case, condemnation of violence. With regard to the infamous restructuring of categories of professional football, I think it is going in the right direction, since you can assure us that there can be a Super League 2 championship with the thirty-six teams and that it is possible to do so too. Is it certain he can be organized and run the Championship next year? Now we're going to settle the issues of the coach's profession. Here there are positive arrangements for the patenting of coaches, especially in amateur sport. Many coaches are forced to work uninsured and, more generally, within an occupational insecurity regime. The regulations for coaches take the first step to introduce rules into the workplace, as compulsory trainer employment is provided for in each sport in this workplace. I would like to raise two points: the first concerns football coaches - our rapporteur, Mr Constantopoulos - where the provision gives the NRA the power to determine professional rights of university graduates. However, the performance of professional rights is the responsibility of the State rather than any legal person governed by private law. We understand the existence of the UEFA Convention and the obligations arising out of this Convention, but under no circumstances can we accept the devaluation of the diplomas of the Greek University and the equalisation of the rights of CSTD graduates and EFFA specialising in football. It is an inconceivable degree from a privately impassable non-educational school - School of the Hellenic Football Federation - to be professionally over the university degrees of four years of study. We propose that the state, in consultation with the NSA, UEFA and the university institutions, find a solution that is sustainable and non-business, where graduates with a CCA and CCA football speciality can even acquire UEFA A as part of the four-year university course. The second issue concerns the establishment of a School of Coaches. The National School of Coaches, which will be subject to the General Secretariat of Sports and will define the whole framework for the operation of the school. I would like to ask you: Who and with what qualifications will define the subject matter and the curriculum? How will their education be demonstrated? Will they be university teachers? All coaches, without exception of sport, and certainly infrastructure and academia coaches, must have at least six-month training courses in teaching, which is currently offered only to university institutions. Finally, with regard to the extension of the statutes to be harmonised with the law, we consider it necessary. The bureaucracy is great and the unions are faced with pathogens of years, sometimes due to the structure of the state itself. However, we disagree with the provision of a ban on the use of OTA facilities by sports clubs which have not been registered from January to September 2021. The register did not work as it was expected and the registration of unions should be done with an open register, without suffocating deadlines and without excluding athletes from the training areas, because it is not, in fact, punishing the club, but the athlete. In conclusion, Minister, your bill aims to bring about reform in the field of sport, but unfortunately, by means of fragmentary regulations rather than an integrated framework. I would like to make a more general point here. Today we are experiencing a huge crisis of sport and a deterioration of Greece in various sports and sports spaces and, at the same time, we are living the personal battle of athletes and individual and group sports, leading to the conquests of high positions, prizes, medals and even group sports. The organisation of professional sport is not equivalent to the needs, so as to address this crisis and to bridge this contradiction. I read it many times on the headlines of sports newspapers. Protect the athletes. They can't play all year round so, they can't blackmail and they can't go to a process, which is unrelated to a real, correct, rational time management from training and struggle. Faced with violence. You're trying to do it with this bill. Indicate the infrastructure we have, which is important and most of them, right now, are slow. But you also have resources, where necessary. You keep telling us - and we see it - that there are resources. If it is a priority to upgrade sport, which is an element of the country's identity and tradition, but also a modern comparative, cultural and historical advantage, so also economic and developmental, one of the main priorities should be to increase the resources available and to manage them properly so as to address the phenomenon of the sport crisis and to enjoy the athletes themselves, who personally are making tremendous efforts and gaining huge successes, the care of a state which is developing organised and properly sport. This also dictate the Olympic ideals as well as the entire course, duration and history of this nation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. We continue with the circle of speakers. Mr Christos Kelles has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Sports follows on from sport reform, creating a new and effective governance framework. Indicative of the change that has been achieved so far, thanks to the implementation of Law 4639/2019 which was passed in November 2019 setting limits on the terms of the sports federations, is the renewal of their administrations by 60%. Similarly, the draft law we are discussing and will be voting on today includes a number of provisions, which lead football and, in general, Greek sport in a new era where the state is closer to our athletes. As a doctor, I would like, above all, to begin with the great project of 'PLOPA' that will radically improve the conditions in the field. The shocking images of the battle of Denmark and Finland, under the "EURO 2020", where the Danish footballer Christian Ericsen collapsed within the field and returned to life, thanks to the immediate intervention and efforts of the medical team with the defibrillator available, are an example for the whole world. The stadiums - and you are right, Minister - must be equipped with all medical means and their facilities must meet the necessary standards to ensure maximum protection for athletes. Moreover, under this legislation, sporting facilities will be able to be upgraded, either through the "POLOPA", where all public and private facilities of amateur clubs and OTAs are recorded, or through the method of counter-compensation, by the clubs using them. In view of the safety and evolution of amateur athletes, arrangements are introduced for their insurance and transferability. In particular, there is provision for the placing of athletes on the insurance of e-ECA for the risk of an accident throughout the racing season, as well as on the ECAI for sickness benefits if they are not covered by another insurance. At the same time, with the completion of the nineteen years, the possibility of a free transcription is provided, which will help young athletes to move their careers forward and not be trapped by the clubs, ending up in long-term judicial disputes many times, which affect their psychology and their evolution. These are large sections, which will help many young children work with more supplies and highlight their talent. It is also deeply recommended that the status of fan clubs should be regulated. First of all, their operating framework is updated in order to control more effectively the teams whose objective responsibility is rationalised. The peculiarity, i.e. a ban on the suspension and conversion of the crack sentences for criminal offences against sporting events, is reintroduced and a stricter framework is introduced with regard to organised movements. At the same time, provision is made for the possibility of the creation of pan-Hellenic clubs, which will be set up by at least ten different teams, in order to cultivate understanding between fans and to limit fan disputes. This is a very bold thing, Minister. I wish it would succeed. Extremely important is the step taken in the "king of sports" in football. And here, let me call it that, ladies and gentlemen. Not that there is no top sport basketball or classic sport or polo or volleyball and all the other sports, in which our teams and athletes have made proud, but football in Larissa is deeply engraved in the memory of the Larissaians. And it's engraved because I remind you that it's the only provincial city, which has received championship and cups of Greece. As far as the provisions of the bill are concerned, there is a restructuring that will revive Greek football. Two professional categories are set up, Super League 1 and Super League 2, which are merged with Football League, so that football becomes more competitive and enhance the sustainability of teams. To highlight the Greek players, a provision is introduced that provides that half of the players of each team, who will play in the Super League 2 and will be declared on the matchsheet, will have to meet the conditions for participation in a Greek national team of any category. That's very right, Minister. In addition, the share capital of the Super League 2 teams is increased to 50% of those of Super League 1. The guarantee letters for the two categories are also increased accordingly. The Third National is the next category, which remains amateur. It should be stressed that, with the amendment tabled by the Super League 1 groups, it is possible to set up a second team, which will be banned from fighting in the same category, which will also contribute to the promotion of Greek players, but also to the creation of more jobs. Furthermore, based on a study by FIFA on Greek football, any reports of racing manipulation are communicated to the National Sports Integrity Platform. According to this study, the participation of coaches in the boards of federations is also adopted. At the same time, the institutions are being strengthened through the bill. Coaches also have a central role at this level since the National School of Coaches is founded for all sports and a Register of Coaches is created to ensure their professional development in an excellent way. At the same time, the Committee on Professional Sports, whose responsibilities are strengthened and shielded by further guarantees of operational independence for its members, which the House also delivers, as is the case with the ECJ, is hereby reconstituted. Finally, the operation of the National Anti-Doping Agency is being strengthened, and the organisation of the Third World Games for Labour Sport in 2021 to be held this autumn in our country is determined. All in all, ladies and gentlemen, the new law opens up a new chapter on Greek sport that we are sure will be glamorous thanks to the skills and soul of our athletes who have given us, given and always give us joy, as has been the case recently with Stephanos Chimpas, but also with Maria Sakkaris, making us nationally proud. That is why we must provide them with the best possible conditions for them to be committed to their objectives. That is why, today, we have a crucial step and we are voting in favour of this draft law in favour of Greek sport and our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u24	We will now give the floor to Mr Vassiliou Asturias from SYRIZA and Larisa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u25	What about Larissa, Mr. President, and you're all from Larissa here together?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Barka, there are too many of us! Here, Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u27	Because Larissa also took the championship, Mr. Barca, for that. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, before I proceed to the bill, I would like to make a brief comment on the outcome of yesterday's vote. Because the government likes to oppose the opposition, imagine that the fifty-eight articles had not been passed! He's hiding behind communication operations alone! This bill unfolds and actually reveals the core of government policy. The core of government policy began at the same level as private college graduates and the severely affected by professional rights of scientists such as economists and engineers. It continued with the granting of the right, a right which arises directly from the Constitution and is a clear obligation of the state, the obligation to grant the pension. Instead of selecting the aid of the EVA, the recruitment of employees from the EVC, it goes to the other end and prefers to put individuals on the side. This bill also makes it clear that this policy has nothing to do with the government's supposed central perception. It's a policy clearly neoliberal. Why is the words ‘professional rights specific to football for coaches’ defined by the National Football Federation? Honestly and without opposition, I would like you to tell me which provision obliges you to introduce such a restriction or not, but to exclude. Professional rights are determined in accordance with the Constitution by the state and you are now coming and giving it to a legal person under private law. You are thus reaping the studies four years old. You dedicate yourself as a graduate of the CSAs. Let me use an example. A graduate of law, senior, receives the permission to pursue a profession, imagine not having access to the courtrooms, but only having access to the Registry of the courts. Minister, you forget it's not just the football technique that coaches teach our children. It is first and foremost the work that coaches should serve. This pedagogical work, Minister, has studied it at university schools. That's why the coach football world wants a convincing answer. The persuasive answer is not why UEFA wants it. Is this the UEFA-UP deal? National law, is the Constitution above any deal? Is it above any status of opinion? It is more than usual practice than what the Constitution says and what the laws say or do not say. Above all, the responsibility of coaches is pedagogical. You do not in this way promote a word that our society today needs, Mr Minister, needs, the word 'worthiness'. It is no accident, and I think I should like to express the great majority of the world, that the most serious offences under the Criminal Code occur in the field of sport and football. What do you want? Fraud, criminal organization, money laundering, money laundering! What do you have to say about that? And you want to make reforms with a Committee on Professional Sport that you do not manage, which you essentially deceive and want in a month and a half to do all that you say in the bill. And you at the same time blame us for making miserable opposition. If the opposition that says we must respect professional rights, we must respect the studies of graduate students and seniors is miserable, then the conclusions must be drawn from sporting society and football society. I shall close, Minister, with a request for which I have also tabled to you, but I have not received an answer, on the unequal treatment of the Olympic deaf people. They were exempted from the beneficial effects of Article 37 of Law 2525/1999 on the wage scale of those serving in the narrow and wider public sector. I think you should see it. These people must receive this treatment, not favourable, but decent treatment. We owe as a state the rule of law to these people to be all right. In conclusion, it is a bill in principle ineffective because it does not promote the real reforms that the sporting sector wants and particularly unfair to the people they have studied, to the people who want to study, to the people who love sport and especially football, and it is also unfair because it is devastated - you - the pedagogical character of the football coach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u28	Mr Theodoros Karaoglu has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since we are discussing a bill from the Ministry of Sport, I have to point out that in the New Democracy we are followers of the rhetoric that when you are about to take a responsibility, you must never hesitate. That is what we are doing today with the legislation we are discussing. Our action declares our priorities and as a government of deep reformist today we are called upon to ratify by our vote a further conscious effort to restructure Greek sport. We are acting for the benefit of amateur sport by ensuring that its professional part operates with transparency and merit. At the same time, we are renewing its human resources at the level of executives, thereby satisfying a universal requirement of the sporting family. Our main aim is for sport in Greece to be the same as our cultural heritage. That is why we are working on sport for the many and especially the next generations. We want Greek sport to be the endless source of the timeless values that characterize our nation. On the substance of the matter, with the legislative initiative of Minister Aughaki, we put an end to the bad texts of yesterday and act as a wind in the sails of sports development, so that we can help her to move forward. Unfortunately, it is common secret to all of us that Greek sport was based until now on relations of power. The prerogative of the exercise of command was often exploited and we somehow reached the sad point of feeling that every coach and every athlete belonged to them. From today these situations belong to yesterday, since we have been putting sport in order, we dominate transparency and we fight the pathogenesis that afflict him. In short, we are making our commitments with a rapid and, above all, decisive step. So, with the articles in the bill, we solve chronic sports law malfunctions, while improving the conditions that are formed around Greek football by helping to overcome the pathogens that we all know. We are also modernising the Doping Control Agency by ensuring its financial autonomy with an annual budget of EUR 1,400,000 from the regular budget and by updating the institutional framework of the rights and obligations of sports coaches. As I mentioned at the meeting of the Committee on Morphic Affairs, every athlete has a strong voice with her and also rights, which he lacked in the previous years. After all, the letter from the Pan-Hellenic Basketball Association expressing the satisfaction of the members of the MAGP for the draft law we are discussing. As the text mentions, the new Sports Bill is very important for the development of all sport, with the President of the Association wishing for "good success" in his vote. The vote of confidence, therefore, given by professional athletes, is due to the fact that for the first time the state ensures insurance for athletes who are struggling in the lower and especially in amateur categories. So what will henceforth be the case is that the private agreement signed by the athletes with the club will be submitted to the relevant federation and automatically subject to the e-ECA insurance to cover the athlete in the event of an accident. At football level, we are in line with FIFA and UEFA's holistic study, which means that we will no longer be exposed as Greece "in offsaid position". Equally important is that we proceed to a series of interventions which ensure the survival of the smaller professional football categories. As we have read in the articles of the bill, we propose the merger of Super League 2 and Football League in a new professional category. The ultimate objective is the new championship to become more qualitative, more competitive and of course more sustainable. We are ensuring this with the drastic increase in the minimum share capital, with the drastic increase in the guarantee letter threshold, with the compulsory participation of Greek footballers, as well as with the three-year central management of television rights. There is no doubt that this is a development which will improve the quality of the football product. Here you will allow me as Thessalonikios and as a declared fan of "Hercules" Thessaloniki to make a personal reference to the team of my heart. I should like to begin by thanking Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the present Minister of Sports, Mr Leuteris Ausgenakis, and all those ministers who have dealt with and solved a very important problem that ensured the regeneration of the club. The unanimous vote in favour of Article 41 in the relevant bill of the Ministry of Finance, which came to the House on February 5, 2021, allowed the Historic Association "Hercules" to proceed unintentionally in the future to write new pages in his glorious history. Today, as we are one step before the restructuring of the professional categories in football, I urge the Greek Football Federation - I know that it is not a matter of the present Minister, it is a matter of the Wild Card - to examine the issue of a "Wild Card", that is a card free for "Hercules", so that from the new season it can compete in the Super League 2 championship and find a step closer to its natural position, which is the great living rooms of the Greek football. Besides, he deserves it and he deserves it. I would remind you, historically, that the football "Hercules" has been subjected to unjustly three times: once in 1980 for an alleged case of corruption, for which it was finally vindicated, once in 2011 for debts of 7m euros, which were adjusted and all were repaid by the then president of "Hercules", and once in 2017 for debts of 3.5m, which were also regulated and paid off by the President of "Hercules". The question is not about the government, but the NCA should consider this possibility in order to restore a great injustice. After all, as far as "Hercules" is concerned, the team's administration has created some healthy and sustainable conditions that are rare in our day. Furthermore, I would point out to the NRA that professional football needs great historical clubs such as "Hercules", such as "Panionios", teams with people, with history, with facilities and infrastructure. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I would like to make two points before I finish. Firstly, Mr Minister, there is provision for the participation of second groups of associations fighting in the Super League 1, in the second category, which of course will not be able to raise a charge. But - and I come along with the thought expressed by my colleague Mr Boubas earlier - these groups will be able to create situations, i.e. lose from some who want, and win from others who are not in their chariot. It is an issue that we should consider. My humble proposal is that the football teams of Super League 1 should have a second obligation, but participate in their own championships separately and not be involved in the history of Super League 2 and the other teams. Secondly, there is provision for the participation of associations in Super League 2 a recommendation of an AIF of EUR 250,000 share capital and a guarantee letter of at least EUR 100,000. That's right, that's right, and I'd say it's up even more. But the date is late July and I think it is a difficult and dead month. I would suggest that we do not start - and then we need an extension - and that this should go until 31 August, so that the OLAF can also be set up to pay the share capital and, of course, the amount to be paid as a guarantee letter. In addition, another proposal I would like to make is the following. We keep talking about Super League1 and Super League 2. I have the opinion that the rabies don't make the priest. The Greek vocabulary is so rich that I could not understand why we do not use the Greek words "A' National" and "B' National" for the professional categories and then "A' National". In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I have repeatedly stressed that sport must not be a field of party controversy or a social aspect of political controversy. Sport also unites with the draft law we are discussing today, we are trying to relaunch it. We put an end to property logic and practices while colonizing federations. Moreover, Greek sport will apply the self-evident ones, which involve housewives. In short, a vote in favour of the bill is a positive vote on the progress of Greek sport and it goes without saying that the New Democracy Parliamentary Group is voting in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u30	Mr Athanasios Kavada will be followed by the New Democracy. Mr Barkas will then speak from SYRIZA and the Greek Parliamentary Representative. Mr. Kavvada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, having served and continued serving sport, I can only welcome the government's fourth institutional initiative in the field of sport. It is a legislative initiative with a strong reformal figure and is intended to impose transparency rules across the whole range of Greek sport. The Registry of Sports Associations was a leading institutional step towards amateur sport and transparency in the field. However, the bill we are debating today is linked to deep and large areas in the field of professional sport. Ensuring the independence of the Committee on Professional Sport in the model of other independent authorities is one of them. However, the most important part of the bill is the legislation based on the study of UEFA and the World Federation of Football to improve conditions in Greek football. First of all, the responsibility for the operation of the fast-track fans is now embedded, as we are used to calling them. It streamlines the framework for civil and objective liability of the groups for the unlawful or infringing activities of their fans. A significant measure also works dissuasively and improperly to display violence in sport is the reintroduction of the peculiarity. That is to prohibit the suspension and conversion of prison sentences for criminal offences related to sporting events. At the same time, a new, more rational and more stringent framework sanctions for the movement of organised fans in out-of-court matches are being created. Our goal should be to implement best practices in world top championships, such as English. Same goes for basketball. Therefore, 'yes' to reforms and the presence of fans in offshore matches or events, but with a strict framework and sanctions for acts or phenomena of violence. And even sanctions at the expense of all the members of the liaison or liaison if the perpetrators are not identified. Another important step, which can change the toxic climate of violence, is the provision for the creation of a Pan-Hellenic Fans Club Federation. Also, based on the study by the European and the World Federation, a new framework is being created to deal with cases of suspicious matches linked to manipulation of the result. The national platform of sport integrity will exercise control, investigation and assess all data and information. In addition, there will be only two professional championships now: the Super League 1, i.e. the A1 National Category Men and the Super League 2, where the professional championships of A2 and the Second National Class are merged from the already coming championship of 2021-2022. These championships participate exclusively in football companies with specific criteria in order to ensure their reliability, viability and solvency, such as a guarantee letter of at least EUR 150 000, minimum share capital for the AUIs participating in the A1 National Men's Championship of at least EUR 700 000 and for those participating in the A2 of at least 350 thousand. And of course, the Third National Championship has a amateur character. The positive aspects of this bill include the provision of insurance cover in the event of an accident for amateur athletes in the group sports of national categories, which until now have been uninsured. And of course, the liberation of the transcripts of amateur athletes after the 19th year of their age. It was common practice for unions to keep committed talented athletes and not to let them evolve at their most efficient age. As of 2022, athlete can make the transfer he wants, without the union's consent being required. Also, very positive are the arrangements for the National School of Coaches, but also for the preservation of the graduates of sports schools with main specialties in football. Moreover, their diplomas will be equivalent to UEFA B training diplomas. Finally, coaches are represented on the boards of the sports federations. And before I close, I would like to mention the very important extension to the deadline for registration of sports clubs in the relevant Ministry register until 31 August 2021. For male unions the benefits of registration are many, since only so can they be beneficiaries of possible funding, while most importantly, only by registering will they be able to use sports facilities. If they are not registered with effect from 1 September, they shall be excluded from their use. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last Sunday the world's sports community was shocked by the tragic incident with the Danish football player Eriksen in the European Championship that was saved by the defibrillator's operation and the immediate reaction of the rescuers. Which many do not know is that 24 hours earlier we had a corresponding incident in Halkidiki with a child who was only 14 years old, fighting on a football stadium in his area and was saved because next to the field there was a oven that happened to have a defibrillator. Minister, I have read recently that there are only five hundred external automatic defibrillators available for public use in Greece. At the same time that the Netherlands has twenty thousand. I'm going to file this post in the Minutes. In Europe three hundred and fifty thousand lives are lost every year outside the hospital, and it is estimated that 100 000 of them could be saved if there were defibrillators available. [[At this point the Member, Mr Athanasios Kavadas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Soon in fifteen villages of Lefkada we will have fifteen portable defibrillators thanks to the great courtesy of our great national benefactor, Athanasios Martinos. In cooperation with our hospital we trained yesterday and today volunteer citizens who will know how to function if they do not need it. However, these two incidents on the stadiums show the need for the installation of a defibrillator on all sports facilities, on every field, on every club, on every sporting academy and for there to be a certified and trained staff on site for their use. Costs are not forbidden. And only one human life to be saved, Minister, is worth it and cost without doubt. I think this is an initiative worth taking the Ministry of Sports and the Government and presenting it here. I close with the conviction that the positive vote of Members who believe in the reform effort to establish rules of transparency and credibility in sport is a given one, because sport must unite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Constantine Barkas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am going to start by what my colleague, Mr Kavvada, said before granting assistance to athletes who do have such accidents, such as the football player in Denmark, Ericsen. From the evidence you have submitted, Mr Cavada, it seems to be very important that these should be raised. These are not fights and disagreements. These issues must indeed be resolved. He is here and the Secretary General of the Ministry of Sports, who has also been a athlete. In fact, seeing the photograph for the first Bulgarian championship, I wanted to say congratulations for the years that have passed. I would like to say that the debate that is taking place today is about professional sport. Let me say that such accidents do not only happen in football. However, we must, of course, say it and discuss the reasons why such accidents occur, where footballers are basically losing their lives and reintroducing the machines, but such events also have in other sports, which are not professional. So let me make an initial reference to the fact that we should gradually begin to understand sport not as professional sport, but as sport. The main form of sport is amateur sport, and, in my opinion, there we should put the burden of discussing any changes or any support we have to give to amateur athletes, because they are thousands. There are thousands of those who have been dealing with many sports in recent years, such as running, amateur running in the streets, neighborhoods or mountains, mountain running, to any other sport. Of course we need to congratulate all the athletes who have huge successes in their sports space, such as tennis. Of course we will have to discuss these things. However, we must also take the opportunity of all amateur athletes, for whom there is no mention in the Greek Parliament. I would therefore like to say that we need to look at the issue of defiance. Mr Secretary-General, it is important that we look at this. But we should see it in all sports spaces and not just professional football, because the changes we are discussing today are about professional football. Once again, any discussion in the Greek Parliament has to do with the fanatics, each one comes to Stepma and says "I'm with the alpha or the evil team, so look at my own world, with which I am interacting", and so we don't really discuss things. Why don't you tell me that, as far as professional football is concerned, we have huge successes that we need to talk about and which may be a matter of general reasoning throughout the country and that these changes will bring about better professional football. Unfortunately, in recent years football fans have left this debate, they have left the stadiums, precisely because there is no attempt, so that these spaces are sports spaces, spaces where one can see his favorite team, go, if you want, with his friends and watch matches, to have a break from his everyday life. The only practice that exists is to watch "padisms", fights between teams, fans, fan shows. And so this bill is basically coming to do the same thing rather than put a series of things in professional football and, if you like, professional football in the logic that these athletes should be protected, so that we don't have Ericsen phenomena. And this bill, that is, comes essentially to see how it solves the fanatic issue. Why? Because instead of the Minister bringing in and voting for all the articles left by the former Minister Vassiliadis, the Greek Parliament is two years late. Now he brings half of this - because half of it was written by Mr Vassiliadis - and comes to satisfy fanatic logic. Unfortunately, the Minister is a minister whose only thing one can call him the two years in the ministerial position is that he is involved in fans. He does, if you like, by supporting, on one hand, the leaders of certain groups, while on the other hand, the other presidents of the other groups are being beaten up. You know, sport doesn't apply, in my opinion, the saying that when they call me, it means I'm doing something good. When they swear me, even vulgar and shitty, it means I'm not doing well. Because there is the fact that this Minister accepts the pressures and insults of all the Presidents of all the groups, except one. But everyone else is against him. Excuse me, but he comes today and brings provisions to this particular bill which equates college degrees, private schools of coaches with the degrees of people who gave pan-Hellenic exams, passed, sat at their school four, five years and took a coach's degree. So this Minister comes and equates them. All right, this job is taken over by Mrs. Keramea. But what's he coming to do now? A man who goes six months to a private school of training to get the same degree as a man who has been involved in sport for four years. And I am not talking about professional sport and about making money as a diplomat, but about man, Mr Secretary-General, you are, and you know these schools, to the child who loves sport, loves amateur sport and engages in all sports. And now comes this particular minister and equates the degrees of these people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, in my opinion, you should also make a reference, but unfortunately you did not make it, in the fact that the athletes of amateur sport lifted the burden of Greek '#MeToo', namely that they suffered what they suffered, if you like, by coaches and players and found the power to denounce these people even now. And this minister, instead of making specific reference to this bill, comes to resolve the issues of professional football. Minister, what you are trying to do, in my view, is to solve your own problems and give once again from a step of the House with a bill signing your support for specific factors of Greek football. This bill does not promote sport, does not promote amateur sport, does not promote the "fight" in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u34	We continue with the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Heta. The following will be followed by Ms. Dunia and then by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Aygeakis. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I am glad every time I participate in a process and a speech in a bill on sport. I like to see former leading athletes and fellow journalists, acquaintances from the past. It is always of special interest to talk about sport, football and all that. As far as your bill is concerned, Mr Aygeakis, I have chosen two, three points and some of our own comments, which we would like you to hear in order to be able to move forward. As far as the analysis of all the articles is concerned, our rapporteur has done so. So I will start with a very basic issue and a problem that you too know very well. Let's go a little, for example, to the clubs. I will tell you whether we agree or disagree with what you are going to do, because I do not think there is really a man here who is not against the violence and all these phenomena that we see. But first of all, I would like to say that the position of the State Secretary for Sport is one of the most difficult positions. The Undersecretary of Sports is called upon to solve very difficult equations, because the interests and the factors have a huge economic mass, but also an influence. You know how the system works in Greece. It's hard, very difficult. So you must root out, Minister - that is our view - the arsenals. What's the arsenal? Check the clubs thoroughly. In other words, whether we call them "species", or we call them "links", or anything else, if the function and the philosophy of operation remains the same that exists and now, we do not actually change anything. In other words, you have to take advantage of the weapons of technology and also chase out illegal gambling. You need to exclude from sport for ever those factors that, through their actions, immerse sport in corruption every day. Almost three decades since I've been dealing with the subject - for twenty-seven, twenty-eight years - I've seen it. If not every Minister of Sports - now you are - the knife in the bone, unfortunately won't change anything. And you see what's going on. I mean, he says, "Okay. Sports are." That's not the way it is. You see, a system is moving. You see bombs, attacks on links, fires in cars, "dou" at the time of the race, attacks on referees, death dates. I mean, the abscess is too big, and we have to clean it up. Over the years I have been able as a journalist to talk and work together at a level with several Sports Secretarysmen, who had tried to gather unbelievables. I would like to believe that to many of them I really saw very good intentions. Now you will tell me "How to get out of the big headache..." - will Eleftherios Aygeakis now say to me - "... that is, violence or stashed"? These are the big problems, they are not the functional ones about how they will be elected, how the election procedures are. These are more operational and technical issues. The important issues are violence and aggregation. Let's talk about it the way things are. It's the curse of every Greek Minister of Sports this thing. It is important that you really want to clean it up, you want to tear down - to use a phrase very old, but always timely - the 'parament' we are talking about. You need to dismantle it. And it's not enough to try it anymore. You know, if you're interested in football, you're gonna have to ruin the "bizina," you're gonna ruin their yeast. You must prove in practice the state's zero tolerance, whatever it is in the government, against violence. We are now on a very big subject which I must admit, Mr Aygeakis - I do not know if you have noticed it too - that it has not lifted such a storm of reactions. We are talking about the reintroduction of the peculiar name, as when it went to implement it - and it was implemented - George Orphanus. You remember then that she had become a poor girl. In other words, there is still the famous Orphanou law that we are talking about, the peculiarity and the reactions from the associations, fans, the organizers. Many times, this law - and we must also talk about it - has wronged many of them. You should, Minister, have a difference here. The judge will be the one to decide. I mean, "I didn't catch you. I'm not putting you straight in." The judge will see. Now this is a difference with the Orphan law. He'll decide whether he'll give him a favor, see if he can see, say, good intentions or repentance or anything else. You'll tell me, "What are you telling us, man? Aren't you against violence? Should there not be the name?’, etc. But I'll tell you something. Because I think it makes sense to everyone, there have been too many fans with us. They have an agony. Speaking of which, fans aren't all punks or warlords and malicious lovers of violence. There are also people who are in the organized movement, like them, have their socialization, their links, make their trips, drink their drinks, do actions, do a blood donation, anything. We should take care in this part of it, and perhaps here it is a thorn with its own peculiarity. That is now a matter for the judges. I mean, we're talking about kids 15, sixteen, seventeen years old. Bad lies, we're talking about these ages. We're not gonna talk about forty years old. Most of them are kids. So, if that kid gets into jail, because he threw a torch, why do you go in there with the torch, or if he broke a glass and pays it? We're not talking about it. We're in favor of law and order. We say the same about the universities. Those who cause damage must pay them themselves, compensate the state. But in jail? Prison is a difficult thing. How's that kid gonna get out after six months of being in there? It'll get worse. We're gonna destroy it. He needs attention. I don't know where the ministry might intervene. Of course, justice is independent, but we also call on the judges to be very careful. With regard to fan clubs now, we are not against the clubs, but there is something we disagree with. Do you know what we'd like in the bill today? We would like them to have a great deal of responsibility, if not all the responsibility, for the UCLAF and not the clubs. In other words, we are taking responsibility for the incidents in the clubs, we are taking out the OSCE, because the OSCE would know first of all that they should control their followers, not create fans, not pay them off, not need them because in Greece we have the phenomenon of every contributor - almost all of them - or control a political system and, therefore, want their army, take a team, check out a city, put one of their own mayor or anything else. That's how it goes. So the AACC must have all the responsibility. And we're talking about an anonymous company. So, my company's coming to the police to protect me? So why would the Greek police officer go to the court? Take security as it is abroad. You're an anonymous company, you've got income, you have expenses, you've got share capital increases, you have employees, you're an agency. Will the policeman who is outside the crime in Greece at the moment be on the ground, guarding the "magaz" of Alfouzos, Savvidis, Marinakis, Melissanides, Kobotis, anyone? Why would he do that? And why would the clubs pay her? Yeah, be the clubs with responsibility too. We need to know who's going in there, who's coming out, who they are, who's their criminal records, everything. However, the OLAF, Mr Ausgeakis, must not be relieved of this. It's wrong. The ODPs must be responsible, so that they can control themselves, because if they have the impunity that is the only one we've been voting on here lately, they tell you, "Find them, kids. I don't care." To have private security and finally to check the hostile armies. The point is, the carcinoma hasn't been rooted for so many years. Question: Does not the Greek police or the special police station? He knows who they are, where they live, what smoke they blow. They know them from the outside. There's no athletic violence, you know. Violence is violence. Crime is both crime in the walkways and the one who breaks into the house and the one who robs a bank and the one who breaks the jams and the one who goes to the court. So what we were shouting and saying as information that we had told from the Step of the House, Minister, and then told Mr Chrysochoidis, is that we are able to know that he had a list of a thousand and five hundred people, hard criminals, with a heavy criminal record - they were also a list of foreigners - but we are not talking about them, because there are too many buds, we are not talking about it - and we say 'After you know them, go and deliver this list and deport it to these people'. These people cannot move in society, in a favoured state, to the Greek taxpayer who drinks his coffee in Glyfada. The other guy says, he's been arrested a hundred times and he's been drinking coffee in Glyfada! This thing can't be done! And you know what they're doing? They sit there in the coffee - it's simple what I'm saying, but it's the truth - and they hear when you're going, when you're gone, where you're going. They hear conversations and they go and knock. So, then, the same lists of these hooligans, all that evidence, the police have them in her hands. Clean the laundry. Give a breath to 90% -95% of the Greek fans who want to go to the field who want to take their family. They're simple solutions. They're in the drawer. Get out and dare. The whole of Greece will applaud you. Clear the ‘Holy's cutter’. As far as the merger of championships is concerned, I still have no clear picture. I do not really understand exactly what you want to do and how you will achieve it. I cannot say that we are negative on this, but we really think that there should be some security differences about how we control the unions - satellites of large groups. There are these, you know that. How will we ensure credibility? Costas Boobas mentioned it earlier. Teams B will play, which are not targeted and motivated, lately racing will play with "Chitaikos", I need three points because I have to be saved, the other team is indifferent because it doesn't go up or down. So, what about the second teams of large groups playing critical games with teams burning for grades? On top of that, Minister, we would say that is our remarks on the bill. I think that you need to go ahead with harder methods to clean up sport and open it wide for the whole of society. Now, Mr President, in three, four minutes' time, I will be finished - to make two other comments on topical issues as a parliamentary representative. We also referred to the previous days and mentioned our President yesterday, Mr. Velopoulos, during his speech. You know, politics is a wish and a curse. Sometimes you're entitled to harm. And, unfortunately, we've been justified in too much. I am referring to a major issue that concerns society, Mr President, at the moment. It's the story of the coronary, the vaccines. Now, I want to describe a very personal story today. Someone called me and asked me: “What should I do? I got the message. Should I go get the vaccine? What should I do?’ I answered: "I can't tell you. Do what God can to you. Listen, read, get informed, ask your doctors and do whatever you want." This very honest attitude was kept by the Greek Solution from the first day. There have, of course, been political purposes that have gone to get us things, which are not there in us, negatives, etc. Our attitude was clear and we said from the outset that vaccines are not secured, they are not conditional, they have a transientity, if you like, a special permit so that people can use them. And we said this: Get out and tell the world the truth. People appreciate honesty. Do not create a situation of pressure, terrorism - 'do it, do it' - with journalists saying 'what good it is'. And now the 'Portosalte' and all of them say: 'Good, have you put us in front of saying this and now empty us?' ‘AstraZeneca’ under sixty not. ‘Johnson & Johnson’ under sixty not. "What's up, guys, here? I'm worried," the other guy says. That's what we said. People are worried, they're troubled. Get out and talk. But you, revolts that were criminal. We have had a very responsible attitude towards the Greek citizens and we are very proud of our President, the parliamentary group and all the members of the party. Europe has frozen the 'AstraZeneca'. The same is happening now with the 'Johnson & Johnson'. It has been cancelled from yesterday when this story came out - in one day, Minister - 7% of the planned vaccinations. People are scared. So, what have you done with this mistaken practice of extortion, almost compulsoryity, with this 'do it, do it','spray', the division of society into'sprayed' or not? Nothing. Your attitude wasn't responsible. You have proved, in fact, that you were unavoidable on a very important subject. I would also like to say, Mr President, about medicines. We've also been entitled to drugs. The monoclonals reduce by 70% - the doctors say, the investigations - the heavy incidents. We didn't bring them. I don't know, I can't really think about 'bizna' selling, unstopping. I don't know what they have in mind and what they're doing. Pharmaceuticals, guys! Get the drugs, too. It's another weapon in the patron of society all over the world, global society against the coronary. You didn't. And I close, Mr President, in a minute, saying that these days are really very unpleasant for all of us. Today, on 17 June 2018, ladies and gentlemen, this infamous Prespecies Agreement was signed. We had seen from the first few months - it did not have to be three years that have been completed now - that the Skopje had nothing, but no intention of keeping this infamous agreement. Three years, the Greek governments, both SYRIZA and the New Democracy - let me be allowed to express - "do the Chinese". So it's time to make the fund. The grace period must be terminated. The Skopje continue to provoke. Today, at about two hours from now, in EURO, we will see them again with Macedonia and the scars and all that. It's gonna cause again today. Trademarks: Support for Macedonian products went for a walk. He went for a walk. School books: We had under the base. The Interdisciplinary Committee for School Book Control met a few times. The Skopje, however, have made no change in their school books, unlike our Ministry of Education who ran into all their school manuals and all the papers that the agreement said. Military cooperation: The agreement says it will exclude Turkish influence in the Balkans, etc. etc. Turkey, however, continues to support Skopje militaryly. According to an ELIAMEP research today - I really do not want to talk about ELIAMEP, because I am upset and disappointed - 52% agrees that it has strengthened peace in the Balkans. Also - and apologise for the expression - "hairy pots". We want and ask for this and we are clear: Cancellation of the agreement, veto for the accession of Skopje to the European Union. There's a gun in the patron of Greece. Veto, not the Bulgarians. We also ask for a committee of inquiry to see what happened to the curious ones in those months. Anything else does not satisfy us and anything else is unacceptable to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u36	Mrs Duria has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the bill we are debating today, we are taking another step towards changing the sports landscape in our country. The provisions of this new sports bill continue the sports reform carried out by the Government of New Democracy, which began with the n. And it continues since then at an unsatisfactory rate. This reform was deemed necessary in order to cure pathogens of decades that disoriented sport from the needs of athletes. Our aim is to give the first floor to athletes and to support the healthy part of sport. In this direction of resolution and transparency, it is also moving this bill by reforming the Committee on Professional Sports, rationalising the framework for fan clubs, restructureing the professional categories of football, operatingly strengthening the National Anti-Doping Agency, but also changing the institutional framework of coaches. In particular, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are considering includes, among other things, arrangements for the new institutional framework of the Committee on Professional Sports, which falls within the General Secretariat of Sports. The composition of the committee will now require Parliament's opinion, while members will henceforth enjoy greater functional and personal independence. Also, for the integrity of football matches and the fight against these manipulation phenomena, the arrangements of the Greek legal order based on the proposals of the international football federations in the holistic study of FIFA and UEFA are harmonized. The grid of these arrangements aims to resolve the pathogens of the Greek football and its organisational structure, focusing in particular on updating the framework for fan clubs and dealing with manipulation of the games. At the same time, the restructuring of the professional football categories is planned. Criteria for this restructuring are, in addition to increasing equity, establishing a minimum guarantee letter and ensuring that the national teams are staffed by active but also militant players. The most effective and efficient functioning of the National Doping Combat Agency is achieved by defining the qualifications for the Agency's positions of responsibility, while also regulating the issues of coaches through the creation of a modern institutional framework for this profession, its rights and its obligations. Thus, three levels of training are being established among others. The coaching framework is being modernised in the General Secretariat of Sports and the National School of coaches is being established, which will cover the production process for all sports. The Electronic Register of Coaches is also activated, which will, from now on, form the database for those who legally practice the profession of coach by category of sport. Finally, after consulting the SGP and respecting the principle of football self-government, the injustice of access to football coaching is removed. Diplomas of graduates of the Schools of Physical Education and Sport which have as their main expertise football will henceforth be equal to the UEFA B diplomas. Permission to pursue a profession will be granted to all UEFA B and above football coaches. However, ladies and gentlemen, we should not ignore the importance of the provisions on the insurance of amateur athletes. For the first time amateur team sports athletes of national sports categories who have until now been uninsured gain insurance cover in the event of an accident, as well as the regulation on the release of the transcripts of amateur athletes in the nineteen years. Finally, the current institutional framework that held athletes hostage several years after their adulthood is finally elected. The current commitment of amateur athletes, on the one hand, to limit the patented right of amateur athletes, on the other hand, has hampered the essential role of sports clubs in the development of sport. Fortunately, all athletes will now be able to transfer without the consent of the club as soon as they become nineteen years old. Ladies and gentlemen, it was also the distinction or more precisely the legislative improvement that lifted an unprecedented obstacle for those who decided at an older age to deal with sport. As much as it sounds strange there is a federation that in recent years it has been forbidden for each of us to discover the joy of organized sport, since he had completed his 35th year of age, not allowing an amateur athlete to issue a newspaper to more than 35 years of our fellow citizens. This will, of course, change from now on. Sport is for everyone and for all ages. In addition, there will be no age limit for membership in a sports club and for publication of an amateur athlete. Even innovation of the bill is the creation of the digital platform for the recording of sports facilities "POLOPOS" with the obligation to register and safeguard all the sports facilities of the local authorities in it. Ladies and gentlemen, regardless of any ideological differences we have, we all want a healthy Greek sport, a sport that gives the right standards to our children, will inspire and honour the sporting ideal. The Government of New Democracy has always been trying for the past two years through dialogue with all stakeholders to build a new, strong sporting structure based on renewal, modernisation, merit and transparency. In this new sporting field for which we are all responsible, Greek sport will take back internationally the place and recognition he deserves and see that he deserves it. And they deserve many congratulations to all Greek athletes all this time, because we have been spending a very good time in Greek sport. And congratulate all Greek athletes on any sport not just tennis. To congratulate the swim team, which historically spent the first time and took the ticket to Olympiad and generally to all the teams that have managed to pass to this prestigious Olympiad, which is the supreme one for each team and for each athlete. Let us all contribute to this upgrading of sport by voting in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u38	Thank you to Mrs Dunia and to her consistency in time. Mr Eleftherios Ausgeakis is the spokesman for the State Secretary for Culture and Sports.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, you will allow me to thank the chairman of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, Mr Digalakis, all the Members, the rapporteurs, but in particular Mr Bartzokas, for the excellent cooperation we have had throughout the entire period of preparation of the bill, but also for the discussion in the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating in plenary today the draft law on sport reform, which was started several months ago. There have been wide-ranging meetings and discussions with all stakeholders. We received contributions, dozens of memos, went up to consultation, improved and the necessary amendments were made. Of course, since last week there has been also a fertile, but also a substantial dialogue in the Committee on Morphic Affairs. A lot of opinions have been heard. There have been and there have been disagreements and objections to some articles from the Opposition, but at the same time there is agreement and a common position on a number of issues, and that gives us particular pleasure. And let me make an assessment. I am sure that the agreement on these issues is a basis for regulating with broad agreements and other issues of sport that will not be discussed in this bill, but which, in the next few years, is planned to open the debate. And such issues are spiritual sport, e - Sports, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, if we sum up the main problems in sport, I think we would conclude that the main wounds of sport are three: first violence, second doping and third manipulation of the games. From the outset, we have set as our basic governmental policy the treatment and treatment of these three major wounds. And I start by manipulating the games. Until recently in terms of manipulation of the games there was absolutely no control mechanism for any sport. The only mechanism that existed concerned football, but which was ineffective - of course - and totally weak. It was essentially a mechanism for archiving, one - several times - extremely time-consuming process. Imagine that this mechanism was compiled reports of sports events two years ago or three years ago. Our Government, on a mandate from the Prime Minister, has shown the courage from the first months of its term of office to face this scourge, but drastically and immediately. We have worked - I would remind you - intensively and with No 493/2019 we have ratified the McColin Convention. We laid the foundations for a class in the chronic problems of Greek sport. You remember that the ratification of this convention was our first legislative initiative, where it remained in the drawers of the Ministry of Sports for over five years. We made it a law of the state and of course proceeded in the next steps. In other words, we proceeded with the immediate implementation of Law 4726/2020. We discussed the National Sports Integrity Platform, which comes from the McColin Convention. We have created a comprehensive structure with clear responsibilities, but above all a role and clear objectives. And the best and most important of all was that at the narrow core of this platform there is for the first time productive cooperation between the General Secretariat of Sports with the institutional stakeholders, such as the Hellenic Olympic Committee, the National Transparency Authority, the associations of players, federations, universities and the legitimate betting companies themselves. With the recommendation of the PESTHLA we send a clear message in all directions, that the examination of the manipulated matches is no longer a sterile archiving mechanism - as was the case - but an integrated structure with clear responsibilities and role. PESTHLA takes over control and may exclude sports, sports, sports teams, athletes as well as bet types from the events offered to bet, by persons who organise or perform the betting on Greek territory and set limits on the betting by event or groups of events, per eventor, sports, sports, sports team, athlete and bet type. I am pleased to inform you that this effort has already yielded fruit. Already in 2021, 11 race checks have been launched. Obviously, we do not just want the auditing character of the EMS, but we also want to give a social dimension, because manipulation of sport is above all a social problem, a social problem. That is why we have already been working on and progressing in the final stage of creating a campaign to promote the PESHLA mechanism, but also to promote messages of sport integrity and of course healthy competition. And above all, we attach great importance to the issue of prevention. The information campaign concerns a very good place to be informed of the new opportunities not only of sports people but also of the citizens who have recourse to their respective betting companies so that they can try their luck and make their choices. The emphasis is on both the pure game and the alliance of integrity needed to address the problem of manipulation of sports games. We are planning - if we don't have any problems - to be in the air this spot, this campaign from mid-August to cover the whole autumn season. And all this on sponsorship, of course. Let's go to the second big doping wound. The doping issues have been discussed in detail in this Chamber and in April, if you remember, after the debate and vote on the new anti-doping code. Here too, our country was facing serious problems. However, we have not remained unrealistic, nor have we complained about the tragic situation we have received. We lifted the sleeves and in a few months we managed to cover the lost territory of the previous SYRIZA period. So we have come to the establishment of the EEC, an independent agency, the National Doping Combat Agency, which has the ability to operate according to the current anti-doping requirements. We have ensured that this new body is financially autonomous and capable of drawing up a modern national strategy to combat doping by design and security. It therefore has its own budget for the year 2021, amounting to EUR 1,513 000. We have arranged for the transfer of services to modern and functional OAS facilities fully equipped. At the same time, the procedures for staffing go ahead. We have also made corrective interventions, such as the abolition of the paradoxical state of payment of checks by the sports federations. It was an incredible Basilian originality. The federations themselves ordered the checks and the federations were called upon to pay the auditor, i.e. the audited was also the auditor. And we are going to the lab, since I was asked without being the subject of today's debate. We have implemented his administrative subsistence to the CSCE "Democritus", in order to facilitate the coverage of his needs to staff and equipment. We are in the process of regaining his accreditation, but we still have a way, we work it systematically in cooperation with the Ministry of Development, which belongs to "Democritus". Also, the ESRBAN, the outgoing agency - body - implements a modern annual control distribution planning with emphasis on the control programme outside the race. The audit is intelligent, unpredictable, unpredictable, thus confronting the multi-year vacancies of the training of athletes and sports actors, finally assumes the role of the National Anti-Doping Authority and proposes its programme. For example, within the first quarter of 2021, there have been hundreds of real checks out of racing, while in the entire three-year period 2016-2018 we have barely passed the two-two checks, while on the doping issue we are preparing a campaign for information, prevention and awareness campaign to deal with doping and at the same time we have prepared a campaign on this topic in collaboration with natural and leading athletes and with leading personalities of the sports family. And I'm going to the subject of violence. With regard to this crucial issue of sporting violence, we wanted to put it - and we did - priority the fight against such phenomena of sporting violence and, in particular, the strengthening of the control and prevention mechanism. At the end of 2019, I would remind you, we started testing the legal or non-functional operation of more than one hundred 50 clubs or fans throughout the territory. For example, only sixteen fan clubs - yes, well listened, sixteen - across the country operate in a legitimate way. I list the list of legitimate fan clubs currently operating in our country, of all sports not only from football. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] At the same time, let me also announce the results of the checks carried out by the Greek Police from 1-1-2021 to today. We have filed complaints to eleven persons, four arrests, sealing of spaces that operated without the intended 30 cases, and 11 cases were sealed without the permission, which were pending. Considering whether they have or have not a licence while a part of the relevant documents had been submitted we have four cases, and in force legal branches were identified as eighty-six cases throughout Greece. Non-legal operating spaces that do not meet the conditions of the law are only nineteen. These are the findings of the checks carried out by the Greek Police, which I present in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And I'm coming back to the bill. Why did the PSC avoid recognising their clubs in order to avoid any responsibilities? For one thing, they didn't want to get into a situation they liked, but somehow they wanted to get involved. And all this blurred landscape, the unscrupulous landscape faces it with this draft law. So far we have legislated brave reforms to tackle the phenomenon of sport violence. Let me remind you that under Law 4639/2019 we have allowed sample checks to be carried out on ticket holders in and out of sports facilities. I would remind you that we voted for a provision adapted to the new data on the protection of personal data which enables the collection, processing and recovery of data in the criminal procedure of the material and data recorded in any technical instrument, which handles a member of the Greek Police, so that any criminally interesting act carried out in and out of the sports facilities is distinguished, controlled and punished by the appropriate penalty. We have extended the local and time limits for the application of criminal provisions on the implementation and in acts of sporting violence that have purely follow-up motives and are held at a time and place not related to a sporting event. With this draft law we are strengthening the institutional framework against fanatic violence. I will focus on three points, three important reforms. We are reintroducing the peculiarity, of course adapted to the requirements of the time we are going through. With the proposed provision we reintroduce to the legal order rules concerning the prohibition of the suspension and conversion of the custodial sentences imposed by criminal courts for crimes relating to sporting violence. In other words, we are tightening up the framework and giving a clear signal against fanatic violence. In the debate in the committee, several colleagues in the Com mittee heard mainly reservations about the effectiveness of the peculiarity. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, when George Orphan's name was applied to sport, the cases of violence in the professional championship were reduced by 80%, while we had a rapid increase in tickets. For this reason, I am tabling the relevant document which, of course, had caused a great deal of sense at the time. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] We also introduce provisions to achieve harmonisation of legislation with the proposals of the international football federations contained in the FIFA and UEFA holistic study on football. This study, I would remind you, is the result of the declaration of intent signed on 25-2-2020 by our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the President of UEFA Mr Jefferin and the former Vice-President of FIFA Mr Clark. These provisions bring changes to Greek football with the aim of improving the image of sport, increasing participation, good governance and, of course, promoting more and equal opportunities. I am presenting to the Minutes, Mr Constantopoulos, a copy of the holistic study, which is of course in the hands of all the players involved. I am going to do so in writing to the chairman of the Committee on Education, Youth, Education and the Media, so that we can schedule a debate so that all or all of the members of the Committee on Education, Youth, Education and the Media can have the opportunity to have a debate on this issue, because I am sure that, apart from what the state is planning to do, we are now at 101% after today's formal and consistent bill, other issues which, with the help of all the parties and all the parties, can probably be useful for the Greek football community. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Fans' clubs: I have already referred to the current situation on the subject, and here let me submit another post on fan clubs. With the draft law we streamline the objective responsibility of groups for violence against followers. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] What has happened so far in this matter? Because the teams were responsible for any act of their organized fans, they did not recognize fan clubs and they were all perfect. But they weren't perfect. They renounced their responsibilities, but the situation was tragic and dangerous. We remove the stimulus for the recognition of the clubs, but at the same time we regulate the organised movements of fans and the teams have the supervision and control of movements so that there is a clear and secure system of liability performance. That is, quite simply, if there is a diversion, this system of responsibilities is being activated. They are responsible for the natural persons. If they are not identified, it is the club of fans who are obliged to know - a detailed situation - who are moving organized and who are responsible for any infringements. Penalties in clubs are proportionate to infringements and may even lead to the closure of the club. Subsequently, it is the group which must assist the prosecution authorities and reveal the identity of the persons concerned, otherwise the group itself is responsible. The team's responsibility can be urban or even criminal. Ladies and gentlemen, we would be blind to say that hooliganism will disappear overnight. Clearly we don't say that. You have said so, and all of you have said so, and we agree on that. It must be recognised, however, that within less than two years of governance and under difficult conditions we have made progress on this issue, and now we are facing a unique opportunity so that, with the partnership of all sports and political forces, we can create and bring real security within and outside the ground. We are determined as government to hand over the courts to all citizens, to families and to fans. And I go to the next topic, which is to upgrade football, that is, in common, the restructuring of professional football categories by means of a merger with Super League 2 with Football League. It corrects, in essence, the failed excretion model implemented in 2019 under the responsibility of Vasiliadis. Three professional categories were then enacted, where each sports company in the lowest Football League could be set up as an OEM with only EUR 30 000, with promises, of course, through ERT, without guaranteeing any incentive to viability. So because the economic framework, the conditions, but above all the football conditions in our country require increased sustainability, reliability, competitiveness, quality, but also development incentives, we are moving towards a single second professional football category, under the Super League 1 window, but with strong OEMs, which will have at least EUR 350 000, instead of EUR 100 000, for Super League EUR 2 and EUR 30 000, for Football League, and therefore an increase of EUR 700 000, and for Super League of EUR 1,500 000, which was up until now. We will also present a special letter to the Committee on Professional Sports, at least EUR 150 000, instead of EUR 15 000 that was up to now. I table all these improvements in this regard, I imagine it will make it very easier for colleagues who will want to read it. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] At the same time, half of their football players - at least - who will be declared on the race sex every time will meet the conditions for participation in a Greek team of any age category. They will, at least, have a three-year central television rights agreement, receive 15% of the amount for professional sport and up to 7.5 million per annum from the new tax on the profits of betting players. They will not exceed eighteen teams in the summer of 2024 with similar subtractions and advancements from amateur III National, as promised by the Super League 2. In particular, for this year's season, the capital adjustment will be completed by 23 July, so that the Committee on Professional Sport will then check all the documents required and give or not a certificate of participation. For the acquisition of shares, an increase in share capital and a guarantee letter by a natural person in addition to the other conditions of the law will now be required to produce a statement of assets, commonly in order to fully justify the origin of this money and we are pleased that we have agreed on issues relating to the guarantee letter and the management obligations of public limited sports companies and of the sections of paid athletes. This is how clubs, athletes, workers and also directly involved are protected. Ladies and gentlemen, the question has been raised several times in committee about the position of Super League 1 and Super League 2 and Football League. So let me report to you very quickly. The restructuring was formally requested, in writing, by the NCA last year, at the end of the summer. In fact, there was also intense pressure from many PAEs that arrived to the Ministry and symbolically some of them deposited their seals to be immediately institutionalised and applied by the football season that has not yet been completed. This, of course, could not be done without a plan, without dialogue and without prior consultation with all those involved. So we set up a working group set up by representatives from the SOS, Super League 2 and Football League and, of course, representatives from the Ministry, we studied the data in October and arrived at this project which has been fully transparent and of course provides for the development of the sport of this category, with specific criteria for participation. The restructuring or merger was notified in good time in January and submitted to public consultation in February, with positive comments, in fact, by the organising authority itself. In fact, I submit to the Minutes and the comments of the Super League 2 administration. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] On 3 June, in view of the submission of the draft law, we held a teleconferencing conference with all the representatives and thirty-one AIFs of Super League 2 and Football League, in the presence of the Presidents of both League and Mr Leotsakou and Mr Boutsikaris, twenty-nine representatives of the AIFs who participated in telling us Bravo and Congratulations and just two AIFs made their reservations, namely Trikala and Levadeikos. But they didn't oppose, by the way. I would also like to inform you that the relevant CSR was signed on the advance to be paid by the Football League and it is a matter of a minimum of days, if not two weeks, I appreciate, because it is no longer a matter of staff, it is a matter of service for them to receive their money as well. I am referring, in order to be clearer, to the advance as all the professional categories of the new revenues generated to the state and thus to professional sport and resulting from the new way of taxing the profits of betting players. So the Football League teams will receive an advance of 1,500,000 euros, which is equivalent to 77,500 euros for each group. And we're going to the issue of the II groups, also with the amendment we have tabled, I have informed you about and very early in time in committee, we are establishing the possibility of B' Groups of the Super League 1. This is a regulation which, of course, we are bringing together the competent football agencies, Super League 1 and Super League 2, and I would like to point out the following. The mere fact that discussions are taking place, there are consents and agreements between all the League 1, 2 and NCA football players, shows that something good is evolving, something positive is going on. The creation of the Second Groups is of an entirely development nature. There is no organization in our country for professional athletes under the age of 23, thus every year the ODPs are looking for a football roof for their talented players between 19 and 23 in order to acquire the appropriate experience so that they can then compete in the central, or the large team. This was how massive loans from their AIFs were provided, within and outside the borders, and these athletes cease to have uniform education, supervision and development, because they were practically fleeing the price of this AIF. This little kite of borrowers and all these issues that will come up in games that one group happened to have given creditors who were withdrawing or not retired, this kitty ends here. Their participation in Super League 2 will increase - we are sure - competition, but also the commerciality of the organization. The second teams, of course, are prohibited from struggling in the same category as the mother PAE, while they can choose whether to participate in the Super League 2 or the Amateur III National. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we are not discovering the wheel, in this case, if we do not get crazy, there is experience. The operation of the 2nd teams is a well-established practice in all advanced European football championships. The second team attempts to continue to fight under the parent team's arm at a relatively high level, without leaving as borrowers. These groups are normally projected and degraded, but the upper category they can fight is at least, a category lower than that of the parent group. This means that they are participating either in the lower national categories or in special categories that have been created exclusively for beta groups. For example, countries that already apply this model are England, Germany, Spain, the Netherlands, Portugal, Belgium and Scotland. For example, in England all Premier League teams, as well as some Champions League teams, are participating in exclusive championships of these teams. These championships relate exclusively to ages 23 and under. In Germany, although the Second Groups are not widespread, several teams such as Bayern Monsoo and Borussia have 2 teams that compete in the Third and Second National category, respectively. In Spain, all the groups in Primera have worked together, in the Netherlands, something like that, but in the Minutes I will be very useful for colleagues who will want to be informed and study and, of course, to say that any improvements needed in this context and which will be needed from the state's point of view will be in direct cooperation with the football community and with the relevant bodies so that we can do so immediately and without delay. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Committee on Professional Sports. We support the Committee on Professional Sport with guarantees of independence. We establish specific terms and conditions for its operation. We are strengthening control powers and increasing human and material resources. We have decided not to go ahead with the choice of an independent legal person, since it would have to bear the general government operationally, administratively and financially with an additional body. We have chosen to resolve the maintenance of the ESA as a committee of the General Secretariat of Sports and of course we strengthen and shield this committee with guarantees of functional and personal independence, commensurate with those of the independent authorities. At the same time, we have been making use of the existing administrative and infrastructure practice for some two decades, as well as the know-how that has emerged. Some of you have commented that the members of the committee will be appointed by the Minister. Some others suggested that they should be chosen directly from the House. But that is what we say in Rule 3, that the Minister concerned will not be chosen, but the House itself. They will be designated by Parliament, after being proposed by the government in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure. That's what we're saying, and I think we all agree on that. I would also like to stress that there is now a fee to the members of the ESA. In the present context, they were not paid. I think that no one disagrees in this Chamber that the provision of employment must be paid and, of course, must be accompanied by the same requirements. This encourages the participation of more and better members in knowledge and experience. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I'm going to the coach issue as soon as I can, Mr. President. The subject of coaches is a history of many years, almost two decades of wound. No one has tried to deal with it so far. We dare and give solutions. Our aim is to reform the institutional framework of sports coaches and, of course, to remove doubts about the rights and obligations of the coaching profession in sport. We dare and regulate a taboo theme. All the previous governments preferred to leave it unregulated, rather than bear any political cost, an issue on which anarchy prevailed, and often injustice. We open the way so that right bases can be laid and ordered at last. After consulting the SPS and taking into account the holistic study of FIFA and UEFA, we are giving a solution to the unfair exclusion that the graduates of our country's Higher Education Institutions have been subjected to since his coaching football. I've been listing a list of thirty-five bodies with which we've been in contact, in close cooperation, all the time. I'm filing the document, so I don't read them, and I'm wasting time. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] In the committee meetings, many colleagues have referred to the rights of the graduates of the HEIs, which must of course have them. We stress this, but no one has actually mentioned that until now, two decades ago, they have been excluded. We say that it is unfair to exclude them and to institutionalise the lifting of this injustice. No one, too, referred to the professional rights of graduates in public and private IEK, who have so far been working in a blurred landscape, indivisible. So we follow the middle street, ladies and gentlemen, we respect the self-government of football, but at the same time we set clear limits on restricting access to football coaching and graduating. This is where I am going to stand on a relevant point. Graduates of NSAs or TEFAs are teachers, they're Physical Education Teachers, they're not coaches that we deprive them of any right. I say this, so that there are no misunderstandings, because various comments and comments have been made by colleagues. In football we simulate the graduates' degrees of BSE with main football expertise with UEFA B level training diplomas. The rate shall be obtained automatically by receiving their AEI licence. Thus, we are satisfied with a consistent request from graduates of BSE so that they can sit on team benches as coaches immediately after graduation and not be excluded from them as they were today. We create the Coach's register, which will record those who are authorised to pursue a profession. Their recording will take place on the basis of sport, qualifications and level of training 1, 2. C, to which they belong. At the same time, we are directly operating the National School of Coaches and thus the General Secretariat of Sports will have under its cover the training production process in all sports, which has the infrastructure and knowledge to do for years. I want to clarify some issues, because in the last few days we have received messages and memos from various sports coaches, but also from colleagues that the ranking at levels I, II. C will interrupt the presence of athletes and clubs in pan-Hellenic championships and various other events. I would like to clarify: Under a transitional provision that has been included, the professional rights accompanying each level will be implemented from the 2022-2023 racing season. That means very simply - for those who have not understood and followed us - that for the next year from today the coaches will sit on the same benches and train the same people who have been training up to today. The federation will therefore have a sufficient time before it for the National Training School of the General Secretariat of Sports, which is directly activated and will request the setting-up of a coach school for the level it wants. We also have a duty to work for coaches and associations with athletes and over 18 years of age, representing coaches on the boards of federations with voting rights, the right to operate General Secretariat coach schools and the federations of small and medium-sized enterprises, which so far have not been the case. We also provide for the employment of coaches in unions to be done by way of a written contract, which may not be less than EUR 250 per month. Obligation on coaches to know first aid. We therefore adopt the necessary supporting documents for announcing the exercise of the profession of coaches that they must be included for the first time and for the first time, as well as for a first-aid training certificate recognised by a certified training organisation. From now on, no coach will be able to train if he does not possess the specific knowledge. A significant section or, if you'll excuse me, we do the self-evident thing. As far as the amendment tabled by SYRIZA is concerned, I think it is at least hypocritical. It is hypocritical of them and clipboard, as they have not dealt with the whole previous period in this respect, they are now coming out briefly, very succinctly and very selectively to declare their interest in a subsection of the training family. If you had a complete proposal, you should have implemented it in the previous period. I am pleased that at least in a large part you agree with what we are introducing today. Let's go to the issue of the release of athletes. We dare one more innovation. We regulate the release of the rewrites of amateur athletes from their club during the summer period of the year in which they complete the age of 19. We welcome a long-standing request from athletes and their parents and, of course, many cases of minor athletes. And here you will allow me to file a few parental letters. Read them and you will really get a message of emotion, but also of responsibility and satisfaction for this device that we bring. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augias, presents for the minutes the letters referred to above, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Activation in sport is the exercise of a constitutional right, as you all said earlier. Therefore, the athlete is a body of rights, but also a body of obligations in the cycle of sport. Our aim is to elect and limit the current commitment, which held athletes hostage, without the union's consent in some cases. That age limit is chosen as reasonable, so that, on the one hand, it does not unduly restrict their constitutional right to the free development of the personality of amateur athletes and, on the other, does not hinder the production process of sports clubs and, on the other, does not undermine their essential role in the development of sport. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I'm going to another matter. Assurance athletes. Here, too, we dare to see an important reform. With the proposed regulation, ladies and gentlemen, we are aiming to address the peculiarities of contracts between athletes and clubs, particularly those paid. In these categories, the financial benefits are not an economic consideration for the provision of sports services to the athlete, but constitute support for the club to the athlete in support of his activity. So far, the athletes of amateur athletes have been uninsured. For the first time, we also take care of these athletes and provide insurance for them. Simply put, athletes sign a private agreement with the club. This agreement is submitted to the competent federation and is subject to the insurance of e-ECA to cover the athlete in the event of an accident. We're taking the first step. I think you all welcomed that. Of course, I should like to mention that this issue is a product of consultation with all representatives of sports and sports, such as football, basketball, volleyball, and polo. A quick reference to the 'PRODUCT'. In cooperation with the CEDEFOP, we have set up the 'POLOPOS' platform, which is already in operation. It records for the first time all the sports facilities in our country, and those belonging to the General Secretariat of Sports, the municipalities and the regions, but also those belonging to individuals. Our aim is through this platform to record the exact number, to record the pastorality of the deficiencies, as well as the problems that these facilities present. The draft law creates the obligation to register and register the sports establishments in the platform. We legislate on the electronic platform in the context of the government's e-government policy and the need to support, strengthen amateur sport. This has been done in collaboration with the CEDEFOP and its chairman, whom we thank, and of course also with our staff in the General Secretariat of Sports. Already have registered and submitted information of two hundred and fifty three municipalities in our country and have registered three thousand seventy-six sports facilities. I present in the minutes the relevant analytical table for anyone interested, although this platform is accessible. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augias, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] At the same time, however, I am tabling the list that has been drawn up for the first time with all the sports facilities available to the General Secretariat of Sports. We did the self-evident thing that we didn't even have. I put it in knowledge of all colleagues and all parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u40	Minister, it is a warm request to be slowly completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u41	We're gonna miss the plane!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u42	I shall therefore conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u43	You have exceeded the time you are entitled to under the Rules of Procedure much longer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u44	So I move on with regard to the issue of sports facilities and a provision concerning PAOK PAOK. We give sporting public limited companies the opportunity to finance interventions in public sports facilities, and of course we give them the opportunity to offset the costs of these interventions with the rents for the use of the facilities. The financial instrument for the maintenance and modernisation of sports facilities in terms of transparency and efficiency is thus finalised. We consider that to be self-evident. We facilitate sports companies and, at the same time, upgrade sporting public facilities. It's a win-win relationship. For example, PAOK PAOK PAOK PAOK: It will be able to upgrade the "Kayanzoglio Stadium", as the management of the "Kayanzoglou" and the Technical Service of the General Secretariat of Sports and will do so with appropriate materials and time and appropriate programming, until it builds the "New Toumba" which will host PAOK PAOK. Refreshment in the Botanic: In Article 45 we regulate issues relating to the concession by the Municipality of Athens to the Sports Association of "Panathinaikos Sports Club" of the use of the rights and obligations of sports facilities and sports functions of the football field in the Botanic, as well as of the facilities in the Refreshment Area of Alexandra Avenue. I am referring to a provision we have tabled with an amendment in good time. This amendment gives the possibility of adjusting the debts of the sporting public limited companies so that they can return as a sports club if they are put under liquidation for reasons that are not subject to a downturn, restructuring of charges, or other sporting cause. This provision also provides for the conditions under which founding sports clubs may have taken up the position of degraded AUE from 1 April 2020 until the publication of the draft law to set up a new AUE for the same sport. This provision relates to the Panionios and quite likely other unions. A reference to "Hercules" will allow me to do, which has been regulated by Law 4772. This provision that we voted for and has been embraced with great satisfaction by a large part of the football community, the sporting community of northern Greece, ensures to the "Hercules" its real estate, inhibits the public debt requirements and unblocks the "Erassistic" to the economic level. Abolition of an age limit for a member in a sports club: Litt is provided for in respect of any different provision of statutes or regulations that there is no age limit anymore on the right to register a member of a sports club. As strange and unprecedented as it may sound, ladies and gentlemen, there is a federation - in this case the SCAF - which in recent years forbids each of us to discover the joy of organized sport, since it has completed the thirty-fifth year of its age. It does not allow an amateur athlete to be issued, if you are more than thirty-five years old, which is voluntarily unacceptable and is not the case in any other federation in another European country. And I pray to say that this has nothing to do with Mrs Sacorafa and with the new administration, she inherited it. However, I will only say this: those who have taken advantage of us in the previous period - who have set terms of terms and age limits in administrations - have set much earlier thresholds for the issue of an amateur athlete's newspaper and even the thirty-fifth age limit. Unheard of, but I leave it to your pleasure to comment on it and judge it. A reference to the Institute for Training Sports Officers: another commitment is being made, and of course, we move forward to the institution that will move on to knowledge, to cultivate cultures in all the sports executives of our country. Of course, international events: World Sports III, an extremely important international organization that highlights working sport in our country and, of course, brings it back to the map of major safe international events. It is not the only organization that we have sought and received, ladies and gentlemen, it is a series of sports events which I naturally present in the Minutes, so that I do not waste time on this issue, so that it is not considered that we have only dealt with this great international event. I would like to put this before my colleagues, and I would ask them to share. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] In conclusion, I should like to thank the staff at the Ministry of Sports and to remind them that in nineteen months' time it is the fourth comprehensive draft law - the law of the state - which all four are steps of the sport reform that we started very early and in time, only a few weeks after we took over the rule of this place and was entrusted by the Prime Minister of the Ministry of Sports' Portfolio. I am presenting you with three last documents, which show the outcome of the sport reform in terms of the sport structure. Ladies and gentlemen, 83% renewal to the administrations - of the federations, 65% renewal to the administrations of the members of the Olympic federations - is also the case for non-Olympic federations, but also for disabled sports federations. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u45	Good and that's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u46	And with this I shall conclude, and I hope that it will be more of what we agree on. After all, sport unites worldwide. I hope that in this Chamber too we will be able to join forces. And very soon we are ready for the next bill, which is another step - the fifth step in a row - to the sports reform that our country brings. Thank you very much and apologise for the time I was abused, but it was extremely big and massive.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u47	We shall now give the floor to Mr Kegeroglu, who was in the first six speakers, was not given the opportunity to place him at the beginning of the speaker's circle because he was at the Conference of Presidents. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor. We don't have a picture of parliamentarians. Will you speak, Mr. Moraite?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u48	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u49	All right, after Mr. Kegeroglu. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to thank my colleagues too. Forty-five minutes to be spoken by the Minister at the final stage of the legislature, which is done in accordance with the procedure laid down in the article providing for the essential job to be done in the committees, it means that there is bad legislation. That's not good. In summary, it should be mentioned for all the previous work. And while I was ready to say a good word, because this is the first time that we have no last-minute amendments from Mr Augias who makes use of them for regulations of feasibility, intervening in federations and in their statutes, he himself has come to disprove me. It has now brought the study on the basis of which the bill has been drawn up and on the basis of which the debate was held in committee. Thank you very much, Mr Augiakis, we will study it to retrospectively write down and compare it with the arrangements you bring. I think this is a mistake. And if it really does not change the attitude of the government in many ministries - not everything, I have to say it - to legislate in a distorted way that does not give the opportunity to improve the bills, then we will not have the good legislative effect we want. Articles 1, 4 deal with issues of the Committee on Professional Sport. It was provided by a law of the previous government that it would act as a legal person governed by public law. That's not what happened. The government says that it brings a way, something 'demi', as it has been lately, an independent authority is and is not. It should be specified. Any committee that takes the title "independent authority", in order not to be a monkey, will be in line with the Constitution, 3/5, whether it is constitutionally or not. That's one of the things that doesn't happen. Otherwise, it's a mockery. It is absolutely wrong to be with the government majority only. Articles 14 and 15 tighten up the framework for sporting violence. It is, first of all, a good thing. However, this has also been combined with a number of other forecasts, for initiatives concerning education, the treatment of negative behaviour. Of course, we have positive actions to influence the negative face of a fan. Of course, if he's a fan, he doesn't have a bad sign. But be a fan. Purely repressive measures don't lead on their own. Indeed, sometimes, we do not have the desired results, because it may have happened - and it has happened in the past - to exacerbate the already tense atmosphere that exists. I will raise three points in relation to the articles of the bill. The first is Article 35 - I will start from there - the Paralympic Committee. Minister, it's a matter that you need to see. In the composition of the committee you have alternatively put in paragraph (d) a body which is a governmental body, the General Secretariat of Sports, alternatively - you say - the Committee on Accessibility, which is an important consultative committee to the Prime Minister - has a different character - and ESDP, which is a social body. It can't be alternatively different categories.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u51	We put divorced, ‘or’, ‘or’.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u52	Yes, I saw it being 'or', 'or'. But does it make sense for the Minister to be authorized to take three different charges? We therefore propose that ESEMA be in paragraph (d). If you want to add the General Secretariat of Sports and the Committee on Accessibility, which will in fact increase the government majority in committee, let us do so. There's no question of us. However, the 'General Secretariat for Sports or a National Committee under the Prime Minister' has one logic. No, however, "OHEA". This thing can't be done. Please see if you can fix it. The second point I would like to raise concerns the rewarding and privilegedness of athletes who are distinguished by sports organisations. The legislation provides for the first six positions. I'm talking about sportsmen with disabilities. There is also a clause, that there should be seven other countries involved in the organisation. There is a sense in this clause. It's not pointless. But if, for example, seven countries are involved in the world organisation and our athlete is distinguished in the first - getting gold or silver or copper - does it not have the same value? Is it of less value? So, I would say, to improve the provision in question, and when there are not eight, there will be a reward for the three, at least, first. As far as the issue of the framework for coaches is concerned, I think one step is being taken because there was full work insecurity. A step is taken with what the bill introduces. The graduates of TEFA should have their professional rights matching the charges, without anyone being able to this right, which the Greek state patents them, to remove. Whether they should be integrated - and they must be integrated - other titles with a matching, which will be provided by the Greek state, are further than that. There are therefore two issues to which I should like to refer. The first issue concerns professional rights and the integration of graduates in colleges and IEC. Of course, since the Ministry of Education of your Government has equalised them - I am referring to colleges and IEK - there should be a provision. What, then, do we propose, so that there is no conflict? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In Class III, where the graduate of TEFA goes, without being his first specialty - because if he is the first specialty, he goes to Category I and ends, it is an indiscriminate right - you have put that on an equal footing and the category of college graduates and IEKs. I'd say that in Category III you do two, do C1 and C2 or reinstate the cadet's institution. This will enable the IEK and college graduates, too, to join category 3, but to distinguish clearly the graduates of our country's university institutions. We propose C1 and C2 Category, then, to this particular category. In relation to the conflict with the SGP, it must be understood that there is, of course, a need to regulate the issue, in the sense that we are involved in international organisations and we are obliged to respect the international framework that exists, but, on the other hand, we also have the Greek state that is dominant and determines the professional rights of graduates of our universities. Therefore, Mr Constantopoulos has made a proposal for current students, and from now on, to be able in the last cycle of their studies to receive the seminars of the respective NCAs. For those who have already finished, Minister, do a tuition grant program, since "you must" impose the degree of the NCA. Make a tuition grant program for those who've already finished. But you cannot remove them from the right to be in the first category. That's foreseeable.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u53	Finish, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u54	I'm done, because I have to get the plane, Mr. President. I would like to refer to an issue relating to the maintenance and repair of sports infrastructure which, in fact, our country has acquired largely because of the taking up of international organizations, the Olympic Games and other global sports. It must be a matter of concern to a permanent maintenance, repair and management system. I see moves are taking place in this direction. But there is a big gap. I was looking to find a 2018 programme contract and one 2020, Minister. You can't find them anywhere. I was looking for the one 2018 convention concerning a municipality of our country, to see how things are going and I don't find it. I was looking for a 2020 contract involving a municipality in Attica and I don't find it. That is a matter of transparency. The programme contracts shall be posted to ‘TRAINING’. The previous government may not have posted them, but we must post them. Take a decision on the part of the Ministry. I don't think there's anything that needs to be kept hidden. On the other hand, decisions are postponed, for example, the definition in the Joint Committee, your own and the municipality. It's all posted. The basic text is not posted. So I close with the request for the parents of the students - I think we have all been received - who participate in the struggles in the Greek track championships, such as the one that will take place in Thessaloniki in July. Parents' request is once the activities are slowly opened, to make it easier for parents to watch their children in sports games and to be morally next to them to reward them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, too. Mr President, I have the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u56	First of all, I would like to respond to what Mr Kegeroglu said about the National Confederacy of Persons with Disabilities. Firstly, we do not have that provision in a debate. It has been voted on and is in force since last September, on the one hand. On the other hand, the National Confederacy of Disabled Persons is a trade union. It has nothing to do with the spirit and philosophy of the structure on which we worked and the paralympic sport movement. Secondly, I would like to put forward, Mr President, legislative improvements, which you will allow me not to read because they are enough and will take time. I testify to them to share with my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u57	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Moraite, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tried to monitor the Minister for forty minutes and over trying to specialize the pieces of the bill in which he of course gives priority, but not to touch on the big issues that opens up this bill and the great unfinished things that exist in the field of sport. If I wanted to put a title in this bill, I would call it a disgrace - many of our colleagues have said so - that it is an epitome of legislating because it is a string of things, and especially while they are touching the issue of the Committee on Professional Football, the restructuring, the doping and various issues relating to the most popular sport in our country, football, such a debate, either in the committee or today. You just brought us the tool - I would describe it - the holistic study of UEFA to discuss it after the drafting of the bill. Today we have seen you a little differently, Minister, both in style and in your whole position. You have not actually tried, like other times, to defend various things that you have done over these two years. But what you have done follows and does not forget the first goal you set as the State Secretary of Sports about the affliction of the manipulation of the party of the sport movement and federations. You certainly got the answer from the sports movement itself. It will be followed by the great theme of Greek sport that during the pandemic down rolls and we were the only country we were at this point. You have not referred to the committee today, but you have done so, about 12 million, of the money you want to support Greek sport.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u59	It's 13.5 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u60	Let me tell you. You gave 13.5 million to amateur sport at a time when your government advertises you every day that it gave more than 40 billion to the Greek economy and society. You were thrown away a piece of money, and that's exactly how you realize as a party the value of amateur sport, the union that is the living cell from which there can actually be a better next day. And of course, as a fourth point in my position, I would like to say something that I have told you in committee too. You have had the opportunity and had the mood of both me and our rapporteur, but also of the other parties, on the basis of these issues in this bill, to take a step further. I think you don't show that mood. We have tabled proposals. All concerns have been put forward. Amendments have been tabled even at the last minute. But there's no mood for you to discuss. Minister, because you say it and other colleagues say it, that sport unites, you two years are divided by your practices, and by your legislation, both with your style and with your decisions. I now want to come to the bills which I consider, especially some points, very important. I come to the first point which is very important for the Committee on Professional Sport. In the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, I was the one who asked you twice if the committee - the new committee as we saw at the time, but now we see that an extension is given to the old committee - will be able within the very short period of time before it to control the teams so that the championships can be started. Because we know very well and you know better than us who her tools are, who scientific consultants are, how she has worked so far. And I honestly have one question: When will the committee be able to complete its investigation so that it can do its actual work? It is a committee which is unarmed to do this, without sufficient human resources and without sufficient resources. You have already accused the Basque Nationale for the Committee on Professional Sports, but say it was an abortion - which I disagree with and hard to express - but let us say that it has had weaknesses. But it had something very important. He gave the committee the tools, legislated the terms so that it could be strong, make rapid decisions and not perpetuate situations that are many times as we have lived. For seven officials, the seats have been opened and I think they have responded to two, if I remember correctly. And, of course, it is a committee that needs sworn accountants and legal experts to be able to move forward. So, as a SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, we have tried to make an incision, but I think what you are doing today is to turn the committee 20 years back and create a dead legal regime for the committee. While describing the creation of an independent authority that is not subject to the Minister's control, you are actually abolishing this element since its members are appointed by you, they are directly dependent on the Ministry's budget. That means you're disarming her practically and we can't expect anything from this. I now come to the question of restructuring, and I want to link it to the Committee on Professional Sport. I told you in committee and I will repeat it. The great patient of Greek sport is football. We have heard you at the beginning of your position today academically approaching the issue of violence, manipulation, doping. You have not answered the questions that have been put by all of us to committees on doping and violence. You just did an academic placement. We cannot close our eyes, Minister, in this gamble that exists for Greek football, in the stride which is uncontrolled and does what it wants. We must assume our responsibilities as parties and you as government. We told you before yesterday that we could go to that together as long as you made a decision and you had to clash. And that's something we owe you. While you had the opportunity to legislate all this, to legislate and to restructure, you had no will to conflict with the great interests that plunge the field of Greek football in the country. And I think it's really sad because you had the opportunity. You've closed two years as Minister. I do not agree with the fans, the fans of the "Workers" who called you - and I do not like - "I don't know, I didn't see, I didn't hear". After two years in this position and with the time you had, and you heard and saw and you know what is happening today in football and thus in Greek sport. I'm coming to the pseudonym. You've shown too much peculiarity as an achievement of your bill. And again today, except for the academic quarter of the beginning of your presentation, when you started presenting the bill, your head was your own name. That's what you started again. I sincerely think it is clear here that the two different worlds we serve are clear. The different political culture is clear. Our view of sport is clear. We don't see him as a profit. We don't just see its merchandise. We see it as a social asset, that it is something that really can change our young people, our society. Today, our young Minister, unfortunately, because a colleague mentioned that there are now no reactions that Orphanus brought to bear - and I am sorry to say that they are not fanatical. They are locked in their rooms or in coffee shops, with mobile hands, playing bets and they have invested in gambling. So, as a Greek state, if we have to break something, if we have to see something, it's that, that's how we get from the new children of our country the phones of gambling and betting from the hands! That was the bet. What are you doing? You bring the peculiar name. No one denies - and we told you in committee too - that fanatic violence is a deep wound, but that is not the deep wound of Greek football in particular. You said quite emphatically in committee, obviously to pet your far-right audience, 'we are also suppressed' and I want to make that clear. You are with repression, we are with change, education and prevention in these things. And here are clear, once again, our ideological lines. You're the ones who serve, we're the ones who serve. You hide behind the doctrine of 'law and order', in order to conceal your inadequacy, to draw up a real plan for the resolution of sport, and that is exactly what our differences are. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I think that time is far from over today. You'll give me a few more minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u61	You have a right to time, Mr. Moraite. You have a dentology, you have a tritology. You have room.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u62	Thank you. But you reinstate a law punishing you, which in no way solves the problem at its root. It is against the young people who, in ages dominated by the impulse and impulse, may have been identified in mobular conditions, in a violent fanic energy. Minister, we're talking about children most of the time between the ages of 16 and 18. You told us in committee that, when it was implemented, you were attempting to bring evidence and say that on Orphan how they refilled the stadiums and all that. Don't make a mistake! It's another the 2000s, and today's. I described it to you what today's decade is and what people do today. So you told us in committee that it worked. But social phenomena such as fanatic violence are not just numbers that you bring us here. They have deeper causes and in these we owe as a society, as a culture to respond. Violence is always born in conditions of social exclusion and consequent anger. The state cannot play the sole role that it wants to play as a punisher. It must provide opportunities and incentives for reintegration into these children, provide mental support and outlets. The reintroduction of the peculiar name is an act of undemocratic and highly unconstitutional which is contrary to our Western legal culture. The immediate and compulsory execution of the sentence before the appeal is neither consistent with the presumption of innocence nor with the right to review the case. Minister, the peculiarity has failed in practice and we are going to see this before. How many times after decisions were there to be taken by ministers in Parliament, so that young people can get away from various cases? How many times did that happen? Are we gonna do the same again? But, at the same time as you're passing the peculiar name, which you ideologically invest in it, which you defend with respect to repression - okay, I understand - how do you do? Push in their soft stimulants that may not have purely postural motives and usually have a stronger position. So we're sending to court and to prison the eighteenth year old, but the one who plays all dirty work from behind, he's inciting, he's stuck in the complexion, he's playing various other systems, we got him on the outside. And what does the bill provide for? Poor - it says - up to six months. While the eighteenth year we condemn him for his whole life, to the one who moves and hides behind all of this, we tell him that six months are enough. Mr President, I would like to refer to the professional rights of graduates and the transfer of athletes, but I have exceeded 15 minutes. But I want to close with something that I believe I have said to the committee, and I have said it again today. The Minister actually came in another style today. There are parts of this bill that we are going to vote for. But I think that the big bet and yours and all of us are to sit and see the harsh reality that we have before us. I told you. You've spent too much time, creative, how you'll unleash federations, administrations, all of this. You exhibited athletes in this process. Athletes who wore and honored the ethnicity you put them in the election process. You didn't do anything. I want you to leave all this behind and see together, if we really believe that sport unites, the great deadlocks that exist and take initiatives. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u63	Mr President, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u64	Minister, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u65	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u66	You have the floor for a minute, Minister. The Members are also waiting for them to speak for so long.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative of the SYRIZA, I have closed two years in the place of the Minister of Sport and I have to make a fund. Did you close two years in SYRIZA to be able to defend the Vassilidis-Kononis, which you then voted against as a PASOK MEP? One is that. Secondly, you have called all the things we do a bad piece of legislation. Yes, sir. Is it bold to speak for 15 minutes and say nothing? Because you didn't say anything. I bold proposal, from the point of view of SYRIZA, have not heard from your mouth. Still, you accused me of talking 40 minutes and analyzing. Hey, what did you want me to do? Do you want me to get past them and then accuse me that I didn't go into detail because I was supposed to hide? I have nothing to hide! Moreover, you have referred in a disgraceful and negative way to the proposal that we have made to discuss the holistic study and, in particular, to the proposals that may arise in relation to football. If you don't want to, don't come. We suggested. You didn't ask us. We proposed it on a proposal from Mr Constantopoulos, who said that he had not received the holistic study. We testified it and took a step further. We will do so in writing to the chairman of the Committee on Forum on Forums. Are you accusing us of something that causes democracy and essential dialogue? Do not participate if you think it is too heavy to say your opinion. You also said something that is totally insulting and I am sure you will fix it, Mr Moratis. Because you need to fix it, I'm sure. You said I put in elections to world champions and Olympics. Do you understand how you insult these people? I put them in elections? What is it? Undersecretary of the Minister of Sports.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u68	I didn't say you put it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u69	It is personalities who have chosen for the first time, since they have been given the opportunity to take part in an election process. You also said that you gave me an answer to the sports movement itself. You did not get the percentages - I beg you to give Mr Moraitis - where 85% of the presidents of the Olympic federations are young, 65% of the members of the administration are new and something very simple that is reform, not theories: for the first time, the representatives of the athletes will participate as regular members, and for the first time, the representatives of coaches will also participate in the administrations of the sports federations. And one last thing because with the numbers, you're not doing well, you're not doing well. We've given the amateur unions 13.5 million in the first place. For the first time, the state gave direct money to amateur sport that is legal and registered in the register. However, we did not stay on this because you blamed us - at the end of the summer, at the beginning of September, until the audits of the register - which is open, it has never been closed - we will give a second wave of advance payments from the fund that we created the taxation of players in betting companies. By this time - note numbers please, so that you don't make mistakes another time -22 million has already been taken by Super League 1,3 million has already taken the Super League 2,3250,000 has been taken by the ESRB - basketball, 1.2 million has taken the volleyball, 1.50,000 will take a few days - weeks the Football League and 13.5 million amateur sport.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u70	All right, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u71	And it follows an advance payment this year, early September - God - first - and amateur sport. Did you say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u72	Are you gonna beat us?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u74	Calm down. Minister, please compare your nerves.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u75	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u76	Sit down, Minister, please. I'm not giving you the floor! Your move when you completed your intervention, Minister, meant something. Mr. Moraite, you have a strict two minutes. They're waiting for MPs to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u77	You said 'you said something' and the Minister's style of closure, let Parliament judge it - we have experience - and the Greek people. I'd like to take it a little from the beginning. I defended, yes - and I have done so in another bill and in a committee - the Basilica legislation. And I brought you an example. I don't want to waste time repeating it. I also told you something that I did not have time to say before, but hopefully I have the time afterwards for coaches, which was again in 2019. But I come to the federations, because this really burns you. It burns you and you bring numbers, you say "renewal". What renewal? It would be more than 60% of her own. And you come and tell us that 60 percent did it 65%? When you ate defeats, Minister, in large and historical federations? We had no victory, no defeat, because we have a different perception of sport. They do not leave the parties, the interventions and all that you have done. And something about our champions and Olympics. I didn't say "you put"...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u78	You said that. Look at the Minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u79	They were used...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u80	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u81	I said they were used to play this game and I now add that some along the way were empty.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u82	Look at the Minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u83	I didn't interrupt you. Now I add they've been cleared. So, I would suggest that we do not play with those who have honored the national court and have made us lift our flag high. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] And I come to the point where you move your finger and keep saying '13.5, 12, 15', whatever you want. The country passed a special treaty with pandemic. They shared billions, as we hear every day from the Prime Minister and the Ministers. I ask a question: For the world of sport, amateur sport, the only cell that can really change the data, did you give 13.5 million and you consider it a success? The crumbs that Staruras threw you? So let's be more careful about what we're going to defend. I put aside the Minister's style, it is not appropriate in the Chamber and it is not appropriate to discuss the subject we are discussing. We need to get over our bad self. I believe that if sport has arrived here, it has not arrived from Mr Augariani. There are time-consuming responsibilities and these are things I have told the committee dozens of times. We didn't wake up one day and say that Mr. Aygeakis or the government are the only ones responsible. However, there is a constant invitation to the State Secretary that we need to have a substantial debate rather than fragmentary legislation, last-minute amendments, and the largest basis given how the federations are controlled or other toys played. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, too. Mr Liupis has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the reform work of the Government and the Ministry in the field of sport continues forcefully, with a more healthy professional and amateur sport, with more transparency and less suffering. Interventions are being made within the framework of the work of the Committee on Professional Sport, so that it best meets its complex role. The members of the Committee shall enjoy functional and personal independence as provided for by the independent authorities. An impulse is given and an additional incentive for the maintenance and use of sports facilities. When sporting public limited companies finance the repair of sports spaces, the cost of renting is offset for the use of the facilities. The declaration of intent signed by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the representatives of UEFA and FIFA acknowledged the need to rid Greek football of chronic pathogens. With today's bill we incorporate UEFA and FIFA's proposals for Greek football in the framework of a special holistic study. The objectives are multiple. First, organize fan clubs better. Secondly, to inspire the sense of security on the stadiums. Thirdly, to increase public participation in football events. As a general rule, the system with which fan clubs are organized has been failing for a long time. Minimum clubs - we heard from the Minister under 10% - managed to meet the conditions of the law and have the legal form of a union and even less to meet the legitimate obligations of the state. It is therefore absolutely essential to simplify their system, function and recognition. Firstly, the possibility of setting up Pan-Hellenic Fans Clubs for the first time is introduced and this promotes the development of a climate of cooperation and understanding between fans. Secondly, the way in which organised fans are moved is more efficiently and clearly regulated. In this way, the new arrangements operate dissuasively against incidents, since in the event of acts of violence at the stage of the movement and the perpetrators have not been identified, the penalties provided for are charged to all members of the club. Thirdly, there is the most stringent legal framework for the criminal treatment of those who are offences in sports spaces and sports events. The new provision prohibiting or suspending the sentence is very important. So, it is probably prevented by those who are thinking of illegality, knowing that imprisonment is probably a one-way street. There are major changes in the professional categories of football in order to ensure the viability of professional football and to make this more competitive. Removing the Second National, Football League as we know nowadays we have two categories of professional football the A1 National category, Super League 1 and A2, Super League 2. The share capital to be provided by an A2 OIP is significantly increased, from EUR 100 000 to EUR 350 000, so that it can meet that level of financial obligations and at the same time, a minimum guarantee letter of EUR 150 000 is introduced. In this way, healthy PAEs that meet all the conditions, such as Volos, Niki Volos and the "Olympic" Volos, are qualified. My presidents have expressed their satisfaction, Minister, for this bill. Karyes and changes that come in relation to sports coaches. In recent years problems and doubts about the professional rights and obligations of coaches have often been recorded. Three levels of coaches are created in all sports except for football: a, b and c, depending on their level of education. The National School of Coaches is founded in the General Secretariat of Sports and the Electronic Register of Coaches is also established. In the light of recent and older heart arrest incidents of athletes, it is rightly foreseen in the bill that all coaches should be trained for the first time. A training provided anyway to the graduates of the TECA, Minister. With the new provisions, Physical Education School graduates, specializing in or main sport football, are automatically equal to the UEFA B's UEFA B's diploma. Those who wish to receive a UEFA A degree can do so with a 50% discount on the fees payable. There have been huge reactions and claims on the part of the TECA graduates. Today an important step is taken by recognising the professional right of UEFA B football coach to all graduates uniformly. Of course, Minister, we cannot record the position of the Quaestors of university schools, such as the University of Thessaly, as well as the graduates' coaches of universities who consider that the professional rights of the graduates of TEFA are affected, even with this bill. Thereafter, improvements are made to issues of sport legislation. Sports clubs must have the special athletic recognition, but also have been registered in the special club sports register. Associations which do not meet these two conditions from 1 September 2021 shall not be allowed to use sports spaces belonging to the municipalities or regions. Changes are taking place in the functioning of the National Doping Combat Agency based on the new world code and the global anti-doping programme implemented since the beginning of 2021. There are also important interventions in the field of amateur sport, so that young athletes who have been in a club do not remain excessively committed. Thus, they have the possibility at the age of 19 in summer transcripts to choose a union of their choice. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And of course, too, very important is that young athletes of team sports of national categories are now covered in insurance by the FBI. To conclude, and in order not to waste time, Madam President, I would like to say that the ideals of sport, noble starch, balanced body and spirit development and, unfortunately, solidarity are not self-evident. Modern times with a tendency to market sport have led to many degenerative phenomena within the sport world. Part of these are recent revelations by athletes and athletes who have suffered serious abuse in the field of sport. We also have as a state to continue trying to establish rules to press the morbid phenomena so that all athletes and athletes feel, but also to be perfectly safe within the sports family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs SYRIZA has the floor now. Here, Mrs. Scouffa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the introduction of my speech, I would like to applaud the solidarity shown by the footballers of the Finnish team when a football player from the rival group, Denmark, Christian Ericsen, collapsed on the field during the 'EURO 2020' football match. This fact, like the fact that two to three football players in Greece have lost their lives precisely because of heart arrest - we also had a four-year-old incident on the New Moundane football stadium - shows how important defianceists are, at least, not only as machines, but also how important the training employees of sports clubs and coaches must have in the use of defibrillators. The same is recognised by Mr. Deligiannis, the Director of Laboratory Sports at the Aristotle University of Athens. However, Mr. Deligiannis complements that in amateur sport we do not, unfortunately, have a group of people who know how to handle such devices and often the machine is missing. On this point, I would particularly like to address the Secretary-General of Sports, but also the Minister of Sports himself, and to ask them to continue the effort launched by SYRIZA, who, from the first time in which the government took office in 2015, provided all nineteen public sports centres in the country with defiance and imposed on suppliers to carry out seminars and to enlighten employees and coaches in the use of these machines. I now come to the bill itself. We have three major problems. The first is found in Article 38 and paragraph 4b), which continues your Government’s effort and policy of circumvention in the context of Article 16 of the Constitution. It continues and implements your policy to abolish the strict and completely and exclusively and by constitutional order of a public nature of higher education. It is incomprehensible to bring this provision in place and to correspond to the graduates of TEFA and NSA graduates with UEFA B and to set as a prerequisite the graduates and graduates of the public TEFAs, who are taught by teachers of global recognition and velvety, to detain and pay tuition fees that are already increased and simply set the "turkey" of 50%. I repeat that you have not explained to us what logic you are putting graduates of public schools and public universities with postgraduate and doctoral programmes to go through the private schools of the NGO. At this point, and because it appears in - and is controlled by - that this is the case in accordance with UEFA's own recommendations and specifications, I would like to remind you that the dialogue with UEFA itself had begun, and there was in principle agreement with UEFA itself, provided that the NSAs would increase by three hundred and fifty hours the practical exercise of students. So, yes, three hundred additional hours of practical training to become a coach for UEFA, but in a public institution, in public institutions, Minister! In the same spirit, you are characterising the amendment we tabled as a sketchy one. She's not handy at all. We are talking about it for anyone who does not observe and respect the existing legal and institutional framework - which you, and for yourself, have continued with Mr von Wogau. 4726/2006 and Article 11 -- which says that graduate coaches from the TECA and the NCA, who are authorised to practice the football coach profession by the General Secretariat of Sports, do not need any other condition in order to be recruited in football clubs. And while there is this existing legal and institutional framework, the ETUC comes, and according to it and some football clubs, and they say that we do not hire these coaches. Fine, Minister! Fine for non-obligation and non-respect of the legal framework. I shall refer to another scandalous provision, in particular Article 52. So what are you telling us here? You are bringing an informal private body, NGOs, and you are entrusting it with organising global games of labour sport, without any other condition and by circumventing the legal procedures already provided for in the current legal framework. What, then, does the current legislation provide for? It provides for a special request from a recognised sporting organisation. What kind of recognition does the NGOs have? You didn't tell us! It also provides for the setting-up of an Organising Committee of a Special Purpose with the participation of a representative of the General Secretariat of Sports, the approval of a budget, a statement by auditing of accountants, etc. And you just come and say that this NGO will manage national and European money for organising world-wide games. Are we going to smash money through NGO again? We had legislated a very specific framework for organising or organising such sporting events on clear terms. I would like to make one final suggestion to you, Minister. Football, unfortunately, has changed to an area of extremism. Even under the provision of Article 42(3), which dictates that professional clubs will be able to make transfers of athletes from amateur clubs at any time and at any time without entering the specific framework applicable to all others for a dual translation period, the free transfer effectively stifles the amateur teams even more and does not even allow them to have a genuine programming. Let them also raise a question of the credibility of the championships themselves. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Kotsos has the floor from New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, our Government - step by step, firmly, decisively and methodically - goes on to sport reform through a series of bills that have a sequence, connection and continuity. You will remember, of course, that the first bill we talked about - and it also became a state-law - concerning sport was about the ratification of the McColin Convention on three essential, serious issues relating to sport. We are talking about pathogens of sport, and if we want to discuss and form a serious, firm and healthy sporting structure, if anything, we should have - and it was right that the Minister started it - we should start by fighting these three pathogens, violence, doping and manipulation of the games. I will start from the first since it refers to today's bill in a large part. Stadium violence is a huge social problem, a huge social phenomenon. I am one of those who believe that it can be fought by education, education and information. However, we must not lose sight of specific aspects of the problem. Where does it start? How does he drive? How does it work out? Does it not mainly start from the fanatic football system and extend to other sports with reduced intensity, depending on the popularity and the world they gather? Mostly it doesn't come from the fan clubs that many operate uncontrollablely? Shouldn't the Ministry, the state, on this matter have an answer? And what better answer than mapping these clubs, legalized, matched to the clubs they express? It's incomprehensible for a fan club to use the title of a team or a club, and the team to say it has nothing to do with this club. And, of course, through this process of recording and legitimising the clubs, we will be able to see what elements are emphasizing in these clubs that lead to these problems and how to deal with this phenomenon. It is not, therefore, a miserable responsibility for the teams and we are trying through this link that will exist with the teams, to have the best possible control over the clubs, but also the violence that starts from there. Of course, the Standing Committee on Violence is doing a serious job in this direction. One aspect of this committee is the introduction of observers. Minister, I have also proposed to the committee that observers should not be in the same prefecture, but in border counties within the region. I hope and hope that the appropriate resources will be found to cover the costs of observers moving so that these observers are detached from interpersonal relations, whether dissent or friendship, which often lead to wrong conclusions or do not record the problem as it should be recorded. I therefore consider it worthwhile for the state to investigate the extra resources, which I do not think, Mr Minister, that there will be too many who will be able to respond to this issue, through the proper recording of phenomena, but also the proper punishment of the people who deliberately, morally, systematically and repeatedly create such problems. That is why I think the name is necessary. It would be nice to live in an ideal society where through education, through education, through information, we could solve this phenomenon. But when there are certain people who move violence, mobilize it, not one, but two, three, or even multiple times, there should be no punishment against them? A favoured state should not have a system of justice against these people? So, very well, you're moving on to the peculiarity, and I think it's going to work. I think that the information you have given on what we had in the past is in this direction. I'm going to come to Eriksen's phenomenon, which was also mentioned by the previous colleague, to see how things in sport have a sequence between them. It is true that this athlete is in life because there was organized medical surveillance, defibrillator, people who know how to do cardiopulmonary refreshment. Therefore, it is very important that there should be racing doctors in competitions, but at the same time in the training of athletes, people who undertake to train, train athletes, have such knowledge, because problems with the health of athletes we do not only have in the official struggles, we also have during training. That is why coaches very rightly provide for the bill should have knowledge of such phenomena. Therefore, Physical Education Teachers are the most suited to this process or graduates of NSAs and TEFAs, because they are not only Physical Education Teachers, but they are scientists of physical education and sport, with special knowledge in teaching, psychology, athletics, ergonomics, anatomy and can be useful really and effectively in this process. Here, really, you've made a leap, Minister. You restored an injustice that existed before. Imagine, they were finishing the university and they couldn't work in sports clubs! They didn't have the opportunity to be coaches! And we're talking about those who for four years have been studying the science of sport, two years they've had a specialty and a few union seminars - because I've been attending a profession, but also my profession before with sport - which was forty-forty hours and they've received diplomas from coaches higher than the Physical Education Teachers. I think we should move on to the next step that is right, that is to say, having the full professional rights required by law, because they are the really competent sports scientists. Finally, I would like to make a reference to the healthy system of sport that is now attracting the family to the court, Minister. We're talking about family with father, mother and children. Perhaps we should look for how to introduce the family ticket and force the teams to do this, to set the example that sport not only unites, but it is joy, creativity and entertainment for all of us. I think we're taking steps, not to say jumping forward. Refresh, reconstruct and reshape the sporty structure. Obviously we have a lot of work ahead of us mainly at the level of amateur sport and big capital called school sport. But I think that we have all the time ahead of us to achieve as much as possible, because the New Democracy is the government that looks forward, shapes the future, shapes tomorrow in this country. And I would like to invite you to the motto, which says that'sport unites', all of us together to work in that direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u90	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Ms. Vetta has the floor from SYRIZA now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the meetings of the Committee on Graphical Affairs were revealing the ingenious way in which the Government and the Secretary of Sports are dealing. On the one hand, misunderstandings about joint action, sporting culture, participatoryity, ideal and so fine words, on the other, articles and amendments even at the very last hour that favour specific interests, incorporation of many provisions that strengthen the foundations of the Greek legal order and the established professional rights, while at the same time there are no full and definitive solutions to problems of Greek sport. More detailedly, one day after the vote on the labour rights bill, you bring provisions introducing exceptions to the award of professional rights for Physical Education graduates in the direction of football. I am referring to the exception - a privilege you give to the football federation, giving it the right to award it through schools that organise professional rights at different levels. In fact, this matter did not exist in the consultation you had made January, just to avoid the debate and the reactions, Minister. Of course, in a complete reversal of reality and a distortion of language, you and your rapporteur have said that it is a daring result. Bold bypassing consultation, innovation, counterfeiting and alteration of legal acquired for Labour Law and Qualifications. You have called for commitments with the international federations. However, UEFA in the 2020 Convention states in Article 3(4) that I also mentioned to you in the committee responsible: ‘This Convention does not affect the right of the Contracting Party’, that is to say, ‘to accept any national qualifications under national law for the purposes of competitions conducted in the territory or other training activities of the territory’. Therefore, since the right to accept any national qualifications is not called into question, there is flexibility from all stakeholders. This flexibility has been attempted by us as a government to reflect on a wider debate on this issue. You have made progress despite the fact that everyone other than NCAs has been urging you to the contrary. A number of bodies, Quaestors, universities have developed their reasoning for the need to extend the existing system towards the award of total rights to graduates of CSEs. Educational knowledge, the presumption of scientific competence, the four-year studies, the building of the personality of a young child who can only be a graduate of higher education. Even majority Members' position raises serious questions about the correctness of this decision. The reality is, there's an opening door. Drive graduates to private schools with high tuition and distorts the state's right to grant exclusive professional rights. Moving on, I will briefly refer to a number of points in the bill, on which there are reasonable reactions. The provisions for the Committee on Professional Sport do not solve the problem of controlling the functioning of professional sport. I do not know if it is done intentionally, that is to say, if you want the relations between dependence and corruption to continue. However, you do not guarantee administrative independence, since you nominate the members of the committee or financial self-sufficiency for the necessary controls. At the same time, you provide for the possibility of removing grades instead of revoking a certificate of participation, thus reducing the scope of the decisions of the Committee on Professional Sport, while the blockades do not prevent a manager, for example, from nominating a member of the committee after a short period of abstention from his profession. Another point is the reintroduction of the failed peculiarity for acts of violence carried out in the context of sporting activities. Bypassing the presumption of innocence and introducing peculiarity even for defects, once again proving that you are working only in the direction of repression rather than prevention. Finally, at the hearing of the players, we heard the player's representative describe the situation in the world in the darkest colors. He spoke of thousands of payment decisions to the footballers who are indicted and not paid. He proposed specific changes to the full insurance coverage of members, while mentioning the dramatic conditions experienced by workers. The adoption of these reforms calling for football would be a real reform for the football area rather than the services that are being baptized as a "broadcasting". Finally, I would like to raise two issues concerning the Minister personally. First I come back to a question that has not been answered. I would like even now, Minister, to have a position on the provision of labour law which has widened the working window on Sunday in many branches. You are an institutional player of sport, so your opinion is of particular importance to a provision that circumvents the right to recreation, sport, culture and sport. The second is a point made by other colleagues on Tuesday at the second reading of the bill. Ironics, irritation, stubborn and systematic paternalism, the shapes and depreciation in which you are regularly perpetuating, we do not consider them to be good parliamentary practices. That is what you have shown today. Meeting listeners have reached their conclusions on your behaviour. And for the sake of political confrontation, I would say make your self-criticism, apologize for political inconsistency and be more careful in the future, as you represent an institution at a time when depreciating institutions is colossal. And what you said today: you are constantly talking about the 13 million euros that you have given for the clubs, as you had to, at a time of crisis, pandemic, with closed sport, but you are hiding that the SYRIZA Government has constantly closed holes of your own governments, such as debts to the contractors of the Olympic Games and the 11 million to pay off the Olympic Museum in OASA, in budgetary circumstances, in conditions of bankruptcy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Madam President, for a while. In two months, Minister, we have the Olympic Games. How much have you given the federations for Olympic preparation? Have you disbursed the second instalment of the grant at least? In conclusion, I will repeat this: Racing Sport passes a structural crisis of values of representation, participation and fanatical acceptance. Another model of critical intervention for sport is necessary, a model without anti-democratic intervention, promoting the spirit of the spirit, implementing reform measures for workers in the field, reintroducing measures that promote gender participation. This model will be applied by us, as soon as the political connections are changed and we come once again under different conditions, however, to put order in this area too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u92	Thank you too, my colleague. Now Mr. Loverdos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Madam President. I'll start with an observation. Previously, there was a slight tension between Mr Moraite and Mr Aygeakis. I do not think there was any substantial disagreement. The name of world champions who took part in the elections to the supreme office of the federations was mentioned. And - and I said this to the committee - Torres Zamorgakis, of course, comes from the area of Nea Democrat Republic and was also a Member of the European Parliament. But he was not elected president of the NDP because he was a member of the New Democracy. He was chosen because he was the leader of the national team who won "EURO 2004" and there is a lot of respect for him. Ms Sakorafa - who incidentally presides now - was elected President of the SGEI not of course because she was the choice of Mr. Aygeakis, but because she was a very great athlete, the first woman recordwoman in the history of Greek sport. The first was Christos Papanikolaou for men on the perch. Mrs. Sakorafa was in acoustics the first woman. Of course they are politicians, and Mr Zorgakis and Mrs Sakorafa are. And George Mavrotas, who is Secretary General of Sports, was also a great athlete. But he is not a Secretary-General of Sports as a great athlete but as a politician anymore and can't be different. These positions are also political. I say this to be clear and there is no need to be tension. Now I come to this bill. It has been said by many Members of Parliament of all the wings, and by Mrs Scouffa on the cause of Denmark - Finland and on the human way they acted in the case of Eriksen. It was indeed impressive what happened. As impressive as it was on Sunday, and the final at Rolan Garus between Chichipa and Jokovic. We all expressed our pride in these two wonderful children, Sakkaris and Chichipa. They're great athletes, excellent. I express my admiration for Jokovic. Another great athlete, terrible. And that shows what excellence means. Excellency means that no one can make you get there if you're not really very great if you don't have a great soul. I am saying this because I have heard many of the opposition - basically there the criticism of the Leuter Ausgenakis bill - on the issue of football coaches has been focused. We fully respect the graduates of Physical Education Schools. We respect them, we consider them worthy of becoming Physical Education professors, as Mr Aughakis said in his speech that kept beyond the proper course. They are worthwhile and very important. From that point on, however, as the friend, Mr. Synthrakis, of the JRC, said, EA is not a private company. She is the responsible organizer of all the championships of the country and is the responsible body of the Greek football and is the respective UEFA part that organizes football everywhere in Europe. It's not a private company, it's a public authority and it's very important and has a self-employed one too. That's why we can't underestimate the VDU. And the NCA must have a say, like UEFA, to whom they will be and under which conditions they will be coaches. And say something else. Regardless of the formal qualifications one can have, to be realistic, do you think a coach is chosen by a team of how many degrees he has, how many seminars he's been attending? In practice, no. I don't know what degree Pepe Guardio or Clobe or Towell. They may have taken or they may not have taken anything. Most likely they haven't taken anything. It's important that they're the top coaches in the world. And today is not Manchester Union or City or Barcelona what a degree Guardio has to take him. He's the top and everyone sees him with respect, because he's a man who works hard, who's evolving, who's learning, who's perception, and he has philosophy of the sport. That's what matters. You know everything else, and I hear it, and the verace teams hear it. That's what matters. And to use, as I said about Guardiola, a phrase he said: 'Our disadvantages must turn them into our advantages'. And especially in sport, this is much more important. As a matter of fact, we said earlier about the excellence we met in sport in the finals with Chichipa and Jokovic. But that is not all sport, unfortunately. It's a reality we can't close our eyes. There is too much corruption, there are also established struggles without any doubt. There are huge interests many times horrible. There is sexual harassment and abuse in sport, unfortunately. The facts that personally disgust me and I imagine all of us in this Chamber, which have been revealed since Sofia Bekatore and in our country. In the outside, terrible stories had already been revealed. There's violence on the field, terrible violence. All this is a reality. And there's the doping. Another terrible tragedy, doping for sport. All of this comes Mr. Aegean's bill somehow to correct it. There will be no miracles to be realistic. Let's say, we know that doping is moving faster than anti-doping. That's a reality. We are, however, trying to put a order into all these major problems, which have been caused by Greek sport as well as by global sport. Greek sport does not stand out. It's happening everywhere in the world. But they have to change. I would agree with Mr Marcus and Mrs Vetta who spoke earlier that there must be prevention and education in dealing with violence in the lands that are detestable. But you know as George Mavrotas will assure you, when he is beaten in a race of corpses between parents, there is much deeper the problem of violence in Greek society and in Greek sport. And let us not forget that hooliganism of course wants to deal with and prevent and discipline and change attitudes and all that. But I'm sorry, we also need strict punishment. Without severe punishment, without strict penalties and without control, hooliganism cannot be dealt with anywhere else in the world, and especially in Britain, which is the most typical example of all. Thank you very much and with interest I will also hear Mr Ploris' speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u94	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u95	Here, Mr Moraite, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u96	I have heard the honourable Member, Mr Loverder, but he is not listening to me now - as far as he is concerned - for the heightenedness and intensity he has said. We're talking about a bill, it's not bad. It's just bad times are personal reports. Political controversy is good and it is fertile to happen. But I want to make something clear. I didn't say about Mr. Zuraki and Mrs. Sakorafa. It's two different sizes. There's a story, too, Mr. Zurgakis and Mrs. Sakorafa. However, Mr Zorgokis took the anointed name of the President of the NGO from the Prime Minister. Mrs Sakorafa has fought the country's most historic federation and has managed to elect a president. I mentioned, to make it clear, to these world champions, the great athletes of ours who came down to various federations and failed to be elected. That's what I said before. I made no mention either of Mr. Zuraki or of Mrs. Sakorafa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u97	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u98	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u99	Dear Mr. Moratis, you're collecting it and you're doing well. You do well to collect it because the phrase you said from the Step of the Parliament and it has been recorded in the Minutes, that we put, that I put it, was inappropriate to the people who have fought and played in the lead and have honoured our country at world events and at the Olympic Games. It is extremely important that the administrative structures of the forty-eight of our country's forty-nine federations are now represented by people who are basically serious, dignified, combatant, as are Mrs Sakorafas, as are many others who have succeeded in electing or not being elected. That's the caller. We are pleased that they have been given the opportunity after too many years to claim a different track and win or not win. However, one can question the fact that there has been a very large renewal, which is without doubt why the figures speak for themselves. And of course, as we Members of Parliament do - and many of us are going down to candidates, some of us are elected, some are not elected, or some manage to re-elect - in the field, each one in the battle will finally prove whether he is a good commander or not. But you cannot dispute that we have many renewals: 85%, I repeat, in the Olympic federations and 65% in presidents and administrations respectively. They will test their tolerances beyond the track of the sport they served on the administrative track. You must admit, however, that the phrase that we have put is inappropriate. No one's put it in. They saw the possibility, they saw the space opened for the first time in front of them. It is an electoral process with clubs legally, with electors, with a system, the "ZEEA", which was challenged at first, if you remember, but in the course no one questioned it. In fact, even the most skeptical of our televised meetings, they said that, despite the doubts, it eventually worked perfectly and with absolute transparency. That was a success. It was a conquest of the sport movement. I am very happy that the government has brought us this for the first time, even because of circumstances. Yes, we saw an opportunity in a difficult situation and we did something that had to be done years ago. We're happy about that. We are pleased that at the wheel of the administrations of sports federations - Olympic and non-Federal Sports Feds - there are many new faces. It does not mean that all the old are not useful, they are not productive. That's barely true. Here is the combination and it has been achieved to a very large extent, and I am sure it will be produced in all the federations, without any exception, excellent work. Already our cooperation, despite the disagreements we can have, is excellent, is productive, is useful and we are helping the sporting structure as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Minister. Mr Ploris, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Madam President. There has been particular mention of your face, Madam President, and it is indeed an important element for us, as well as for me, of the thrill that you are chairing a bill, and you and the Secretary-General, Mr Mavrotas, who has honoured the country, have honoured sport and we certainly expect you to listen to your position in general, but also with the new tasks you have undertaken on how to contribute in this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u102	Thank you for your kind words, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u103	Before we enter the main part of the bill, however, because basically this bill relates to football, let's go see what happened to Greek sport in two parallel sports, and where we drove to one and where we drove to the other. Because a few days ago was the anniversary of the great success of 1987, look at what happened in basketball. In basketball, from '87 until two years ago, three years ago, which unfortunately the Olympics did not participate in the championship, what did we achieve? We had achieved a very big conquest that was achieved and followed by a golden course on the basketball piece. Sportsmen came out, at least two top teams were held. Olympiacos and Panathinaikos, Panathinaikos and Olympiacos in this part were the most powerful shirts of Euroleague for a while, all the other groups had conquered European titles as well. In fact, since '87, we have started a whole route that we hope will not be interrupted now and the Greek basketball will be returned to collective level - where it can be returned - with the two teams that we have in Euroleague and the others that are represented. What was actually achieved then? If you see, there was a total competitive championship for a long time. The Greek groups were one of the best groups in Europe. Foreign players wanted to come to the Greek Championship. There was a modulated situation that brought too many new talents, brought too many great successes both at national and collective level, brought very great players as they are now. I refer to the entire generation that passed after the famous Gali and Giannakis, which was the generation that was manned in the 1990s with very great basketball players. Then we had Diamantides, Spanoulis, Papaloukas, Zesi, leading players, and we got to Antetokounbo now, who's getting a better basketball player at NBA. So there was a whole route. In fact, the country has exploited the great success it achieved in '87. Did we have a similar course to say in football? Football achieved something that was impossible in 2004 and we see that, except for the first five years with the participation of national Greece, the course was completely different. This different course has now reached a point where, at national level, we cannot participate in things that we considered to be self-evident in the 2000s, but also at collective level, to be the greatest success that can be achieved if a team is found in the Champions League groups and if it succeeds in going through a next round. This shows that something has not worked in the same way to have this competitive framework. Why is all this introduction now taking place? So come to the bill. The bill in my opinion in some chapters is trying to go in a direction to bring football back to a stage that will take us back to a time before 2004 and what led a large group to come out. We should go back to the hits and the soccer part. You say: With a bill can this be achieved? Obviously it cannot be achieved with a bill, but from somewhere we have to start. And I'm starting backwards from the funds we're talking about. You come to the part of Football League and Super League 2, unify them and allow teams of the first class in Super League, the second teams to participate in this championship. This move will help greatly this factor: Great teams that exist in Super League can have nurseries. These nurseries will be able mainly to emerge to Greek players, who will probably play with the shirt either "Panathenaikos" or "PAOK" or "Olympic" at a lower level, to be able to see them. It will create conditions of competition in the most competitive championship that will have been consolidated, because those who participate in these categories will know that the large teams are following them more closely, and that will create the possibility of producing people, so that the Super League teams will then be backed up by Greek players. In all this, we have the upgrading, as the Committee on Professional Sport comes from it and the capital that enables two essential groups, as they have been mentioned here, - all of which are not the provisions in question - to go to the public structures, to the municipal structures that exist, to make improvements, but above all to the large group of my city, Athens, the 'Panathenaikos' - finally to complete the project that you want and thanks to the amendment you are bringing. Because in order for a group to be able to get in the right direction, it is very important that the field factor should also enter. You said before, because Mr Augias has two years to present a project. And the part of the federations, I beg your pardon, was a conflict that Leuteris himself took over with with something that was not working properly. And now we will see the results and hope to improve this at all levels. I referred earlier to a sport that we love very much and has honored us like basketball. It is not possible because of problems which exist and are related to the federation that the two top presumption groups that exist are not in the same category and that we really see a championship competitive, as we have seen in previous years. So what has Lefteris done? Apart from the evidence that brought you here and told you about the federations and the renewal that has been made and the best we can achieve from now on, we come and say certain numbers because it was mentioned before what he has given us: 18 million in the federations as a whole. Have they been taken? They're on it. If they have not received them - they are the regular subsidy - they have not received them not under the responsibility of the Ministry, but if the required papers have not been deposited. The funds are available, they are available, most of the money is disbursed, and the total is also to be disbursed. You mentioned before and you wanted to say about the style or anything of Mr. Ausgekis. But I didn't hear you say anything about numbers. Because the numbers are specific. He came back and told you 22 at the Super League of 13.5 million in amateur unions. Then you seemed a little at 13.5 million. It's 13.5 million in amateur clubs, 18 million in all federations, 3 million in Super League 2.5 million in ESDP and 3.250. So, at the moment, the Ministry was at a very difficult turning point that existed for sport, because it had no revenue, found itself next door and supported...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u104	One hundred and fifty.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u105	Oh, we didn't mention Volley League. Okay, I didn't notice, and Volley League.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u106	And a five hundred fifty.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u107	Let us say that in September there will also be new money that will be given in line with the new register that the unions will enter. So we come to this whole bill now to give a chance to go to the next day of Greek football to be able to create the charges in such a way that they are competitive, not to have violence on the stadiums. Here we have to go up and say that it is not possible, almost five years ago, that there can be no transport of fans in fact. Tell me, where else can we say that because of the violence there is, we choose to do the games without transfer from here? Is the offences happy? I tell you from my legal capacity, it is not pleasant. Mr. Blondopoulos, this is where we'll agree. If we go dogmatically to say whether or not the offence has to be suspended in some cases, it is not pleasant. They do not match the philosophy of Criminal Law. At the moment, however, we have an emergency measure which has worked in the past and has worked. In fact, I wish we could go sometime and with these extraordinary measures to say that there is no longer any reason to have these provisions. But when you have reached a point that is now too, but very bad and even - it has been said before - in sports that you do not imagine can create fanatical hatred, they come and meet and meet after they have been consulted to make incidents, and there I am sorry, but we also have to act on the first measure that creates a shock that becomes creative, yes, it is also the repressive measure in this case. To feel that if the offence is committed it will not have any beneficial procedures that exist in other offences and will jeopardize, even for a short time, its entry into prison. Obviously this is in combination with all the other measures taken and we hope at some point to say that there is no need for this provision to exist. I would remind you that England in the 1980s also had to take very hard measures against those groups that have already blocked them from Europe to face hooliganism and now in England you can watch the games of any group you are, without any problem at all. Mr. Marcus said something I would agree with. Sometimes when we talk about fanatic violence, what happens? It is produced either by agents or by forms. At some point, and this is something we must look at and you are wrong with the provision that the Minister puts in, where it is actually criminalised and when they are shaking up in some way to make incidents. That's exactly the point. It's not the moral automobile you said. The moral automobile is punished otherwise. It is essentially the one who creates the framework and mocks it to become incidents. Because, in order to require a young fan not to be hooligan, we should have a much higher requirement than the newspapers he read, because perhaps reading these newspapers or websites may lead to this, but we must have an even greater requirement than the players in football or any other sport in which these people do not give the support. Minister, I believe that the interventions you have made at the Ministry as a whole are to the good of Greek sport. We will see this with the federations, which we hope will complete the entire project that you have done as soon as elections are held in all the federations, which must be done. With this bill at a very key point, because we are basically at the end of the championships and before the start, we hope that all these measures will lead the Greek football to give us the joys that now give us other sports, such as basketball such as Stephanos Chichipas with Maria Sakkaris. And remember that in the part of the tennis and tennis, if we catch these two examples, we might in ten and fifteen years say that thanks to these people, we have the course with Galis in Greek basketball. We need the standards of sport, and, Madam President, in conclusion, I am glad that you were a model, just like Mr Mavrosh, who led people to see you, to start and gave us many medals after you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u108	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now Mrs Christidou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we continue our work here in the House, following the vote on an unacceptable bill which makes the world of work very close. Of course, the reactions have just begun and soon the Mitsotakis Government will understand the huge strategic mistake it has made, voting in favour of a slaughterhouse bill. I come to the current draft law, which contains some positive regulations - to start with the positive ones - to recognise this, in a portfolio that is very difficult. But in the face of the great problems of Greek sport, we believe that it stands frightened, hesitates to be reckoned with the strong, intertwined interests of the space. It resorts to solutions semi-finished or solutions that, if you like, reproduce the known malignancies. Of course, once again there are articles that were not in the consultation, this is a repetitive tactic of the Government of New Democracy. This time the government moved on to cynicism one step further. The majority rapporteur at the second reading described the introduction of articles from nowhere, the articles from the minister's locked drawer as a bold result. Is it courageous to make arrangements at the last minute so that the directly interested parties do not have time to react? What controversy do you read these in? You have reached the point of announcing at the last meeting of the committee and not at all in time, as you have said, a very serious amendment which will enable the large OSCEs to have a second group in the second category, which, without proper security controls, can lead to new dependencies between large and small players in professional football and I am explaining. You mentioned comparing your own bill with foreign groups such as England, Germany, Spain, the Netherlands. You probably meant only from the Netherlands. I guess you've been overstood, not to say you lied intentionally. I don't want to say that. And why am I saying that? Because in England they have a special championship, exclusively for two teams. In Germany and Spain, the second groups play exclusively in very low categories and not in the second category, as they are in the draft law you bring. Even in the document you tabled today, it says specifically: Spain: In many cases, the 2 groups of Barcelona and Real Madrid coexisted with the low categories of Spanish football. Germany: If teams are not particularly united as Bayern Munich, we have 2 teams that compete in the third and fourth national classes respectively. So, amateur class, not first and second. You gave this to us. But you've given us, but you've told us. And then you talked to us about consent. We cannot, ladies and gentlemen, consent to a Committee on Professional Sport formally and simply independently. In practice, it will be responsible for choices made by the Minister, only to him will he be accountable to Members who enjoy full immunity for their decisions. A committee without sufficient resources, without staff, with a planned failure to do its job properly and in good time, which will inevitably result in part of its responsibilities being entrusted again with the Minister's decision to private individuals. You are ideologically insisting on planning public competences on non-transparent networks. We can't consent to that. As for the arrangement that five points will be deducted from one group, when its certificates will not be okay, but the team will continue to fight in the championship by participating in the TV revenues, the revenues from the “SECTOR”, it is an arrangement that invites the volunteers to engage in football, to make money, to “feed” the teams, professional athletes, coaches, field employees, all the market and disappear. In other words, this is a regulation which will discourage factors which are even slightly inconsistent with their obligations, since more conditions of unfair competition are created. So do you think that there will be a reduction or an increase in the thousands of pending court rulings, which have dealt with some 26 million teams for professional footballers? Is that how we exalt Greek football? So we're gonna get the fans back on the field? So will professional sports spaces be strictly inappropriate for families and children? Let us now move on to the regulations on sporting violence. Do you want me to count you the laws you have brought at times, each time proclaiming new cruel penalties to the offenders? With Law 3262/2004 you banned the conversion of the sentence. With the n. 3472/2006 you banned the suspension of a sentence. With the n. 3773/2009 you took back the athletic peculiarity, except in cases of relapse, because you saw that the judges were hesitant to apply it because of exaggerated cruelty and with v. Restore 4049/2012. Why do you repeat it now? Why do you reinvigorate this legal acronym that abolishes the presumption of innocence, a basic principle of Greek and European law, according to which the defendant must be treated as innocent until the judgment becomes unchanged? The answer, ladies and gentlemen, is: To repeat the doctrine of 'law and order', which you are serving. And you serve it so well, that before they close everything because of pandemic we even had fans' and volleyball matches, not to mention the general achievements of combating the crime of the New Democracy Government with the mob murders at noon in the Athens neighborhoods every other week. And you ask: shouldn't there be any sporting violence to deal with? Of course we must, ladies and gentlemen. Of course penalties must be imposed, but authoritarianism and repression are not in themselves a solution. It is certainly not a solution to the presumption of innocence. You cannot have abolished the possibility of converting prison sentences into social work penalties, an excellent practice that exists throughout Western Europe you who are supposed to be liberal and pro-European. You cannot target adolescents and especially adolescents from the unfavourable economic edifices and leave to the unavoidable the FIFGs who often finance and foment violence. It is not possible for some - not all - but some very specific - follow-up literature, sites and emissions to throw oil into the fire of sport violence and not to have been punished for one. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Madam President. There can be no schooling programme, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education. Can't you tell us campaigns about doping, as you did the other day, without details - will it be by competition or as usual by direct assignment? - but don't make the state an information campaign against sports violence. Ladies and gentlemen, there is very much to be said in which there has unfortunately been no possibility of consensus, neither in the degrees of football coaches nor in the ways of dealing with the manipulation of the games. Once again we have a lack of measures in amateur sport. It's really a difficult thing to consensual. It presupposes no small-party calculations, but genuine political will, which you have been ruling for two years, unfortunately you do not have it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much. Mrs Brysidou from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the Minister, Mr Aygeakis, has started a comprehensive reform in the field of sport for two years now. The Ministry of Sports, acting targeted, provides solutions to chronic issues that afflict its area of responsibility. This bill comes to resolve individual issues that have been unsolved for a long time. We have all known for many years that it was almost impossible for a fight between folklore groups to take place with the presence of fans from both sides. We had to see a field only with the presence of friends of a single group in order to avoid incidents. In other cases, we watched struggles take place without the presence of people, because despite the dead zones and distances between fans, incidents were likely to fantasy. These things are unprecedented for a European country. Greek sport cannot withstand any other phenomena of violence. The Greek family no longer tolerates seeing the recipients of episodes and scenes that refer to war scenes. How can we convince young children to deal with sport when the same sad images have been reproduced for years? This bill shows the way to begin the process towards eliminating these phenomena. In this context, the Greek legal order is in line with the proposals of the international football federations, as incorporated in the holistic study of FIFA and UEFA. This is how a package of initiatives is taken in order to achieve this objective. First of all, all the legal framework is strict in terms of the outcome of the incident. The offenders will be punished more severely. There's a class about moving fans from a field to a field. It defines in a clear way how the fans of a group can move to the court of another group. For this reason, nominal fan situations are being established, which will necessarily be members of recognised fan clubs. This has been happening for years abroad with success. We see in Italy, for example, a country where the nominal situations are applied to fights with the presence of fans from both groups. What does that mean? The protection of the simple fan who wants to support his team. This sense of security is inspired to man, as he will now know that the hoped hooligans will not be able to hide in the anonymity that the crowd has given them to this day. With the regulations of this bill, the teams know clearly what their obligations are in relation to their relationships with their club-organised fans. The bill solves the issue that arose every time there were episodes and the discussion was about the question: What could the groups do? Today they are aware of their obligations under the law and are called upon to comply with them. The attempt to combat violence, after all, must be collective. It continues, in addition to the battle against manipulated struggles. The role of the National Platform of Sports Integrity, which handles reports of manipulated games, is being upgraded. All of this is necessary reforms towards modernising sport in our country. The draft law we are voting on today also deals with other issues of equal importance. I would first like to address the question of the insurance of amateur athletes, who are involved, who offer sport, and they should also be cared for in a serious injury. The Ministry of Sports intervenes and gives a solution on this matter with the prediction that all amateur athletes can be insured to the FBI and have insurance cover in the event of their injury. It will also be possible for amateur athletes to relocate freely to any club they want, as long as they complete the nineteen years. We must not forget, moreover, that amateur sport aims first of all at the entertainment of athletes. We saw until first instance when the clubs refused to grant their license to athletes to transfer to another club. As a result, we had legal disputes over years that eventually did not allow the athlete to implement his choice. This situation will be a past. Another important innovation is the establishment for the first time in Greece of the National School of Coaches. Rules are in place and a specific framework is laid down for the exercise of the coach's profession. Football League is merged in the quality upgrade of the national football championships with Super League 2. Professional categories are now two, Super League 1 and Super League 2. To participate in these categories, strict criteria are laid down. In practice, this means that only those groups that really can afford to meet at this level will be there. In addition to the upgrading of the championship, there are other positive parameters than this measure. Groups that will be able to pay their athletes rather than create debts, teams based on their own powers, and which will not be persecuted stars in the field of professional football. And finally, it ensures the participation of groups that can create infrastructure, academies, facilities and place their stone on the general development of football in Greece. With this bill, finally, sports anonymous companies are allowed to upgrade public sports facilities. At the same time, they may offset the amount of financing with their leases. In particular, if we consider that this is an advantageous solution for both sides. It serves to maintain public establishments in good and operational condition through direct financing from private funds and groups are served through the use of such facilities. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is characterised by targeted interventions that give immediate solutions to a number of issues. The positive results of what has been done so far are augmenting the reason why we should also vote for today's bill, encouraging the Minister and encouraging him to continue efforts to further upgrade Greek sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u112	Thank you too, my colleague. Ms Bakadima, Parliamentary spokesman for Mera25, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the past few days I have spoken with several athletes, with athletes not only from football but also from other sports about the bill and, in general, about all the issues it leaves, unfortunately, outside the framework. And the finding was common, their finding was that we are talking about a bill of sports that is still a bill of restructuring, but a bill that leaves out athletes, that is to say, those who will be most influenced by any legislative initiative. So, with the aim of addressing the long-standing issues that, unfortunately, so far, Mera25 has been making four amendments which you will allow me to address very briefly. The first amendment to Football: In this we ask that representatives of PSAP athletes be involved in the Professional Football Commission, the licensing committee, the Prevention and Combat of Sports Violence, Pre-Accession Fights, Doping Fights and any other committee discuss issues relating to the improvement and resolution of the football area. After all, if we look at FIFA - UEFA holistic study, we see that there is provision for two representatives of athletes in the SSP. So we are not asking for something that cannot be applied, nor that makes sense. At the same time, we consider that it can no longer delay the question of full insurance cover not only of athletes and sports, but also of their families and their protected members. It is already too late to amend and update Article 89 of Law 2725/1999. A very small step is taking place today with the relevant article in the draft law under discussion. There must be much more to do, because athletes and athletes, not only of them, but also of their families having full insurance and medical cover. At the same time, we consider that it should be attributed to them, since athletes and athletes are an important part of the production - if you allow me to use this expression - of the sporting product, a part of the broadcasting rights, as they derive from the Ligs and the Ligs contracts with radio, television and pay-TV stations. Equally important - and it does not stand, it has been raised not only by us today, but it has also been raised by many colleagues - is the question of the end-of-play TECA coaches. It is an issue that, as I said, has really been raised by many. The second amendment we tabled is the treatment of this injustice. The third relates to the payroll and the issue of the movement of sports clubs and federations. And with this we are trying to put an end to the insecurity these people shared with us, to the insecurity they feel by living and working in a specific working framework, working in private legal persons, fully integrated into the single wage bill of the State, and you know, Mr Minister, and all our time-consuming issues that arise with or without their transfer. Moving on, I will pass on to the fourth volleyball amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that volleyball is one of the most popular sports in our country. And personally - if you want - because I belong to a generation that was marvelous, watched by Mario Guurda, the late Nikos Samaras to play, this sport has a special place in my heart and I consider many. But that is not it - if you like - the sympathy in sport that has urged us to work on this amendment. It is an urgent need to solve the chronic problems faced by athletes and athletes. If we consider that Volley League, which has indeed been strengthened under previous decisions by the Ministry, is currently a really closed Leiga, a Leiga made up of only eight groups, this fact makes it not only closed, but gives them the right to decide whether and when they will open up additional positions for more teams, which easily leads us to conclude that this regime prevents not only groups but also prevents athletes and athletes from engaging in sport. At the same time, the sharing of any grants only to these few groups that make up the "closer Liga" deprives necessary resources from academies that could be used for building facilities, but also to promote sport, resources that could be used properly and, more generally, to upgrade the sport as a whole. If we had a wider Liga, we could have more athletes struggling in the A1 Category and at the same time have developed an even greater healthy and noble competition. At the same time, unfortunately, information is still coming about contracts of paid footballers of the order of three or four thousand a year, perhaps even lower. So that makes it clear that a man cannot live on the one hand with such a low pay, but on the other hand, we all understand that such an amount, so low, is fatal that he will prevent young people from working with the volleyball. In the medium and long term, this will also have an impact on the quality and quantity of our national team. What, then, are we asking for in this amendment? We ask for the enlargement of Volley League with the addition of four new teams that will benefit and help multiplely the sport. We also propose establishing a minimum contract for athletes so that we do not have human appearances working hard on a poor fee. And for volleyball, the problem of insurance cover is huge and extremely important. We also propose that the PSAP should be given some of the broadcasting rights. Ladies and gentlemen, athletes, athletes, workers are inextricably linked to sport. We cannot legislate by leaving them out of discussion or by the margin. That is why I call for the amendments to be accepted and supported by everyone. I cannot close without mentioning certain points and articles of the legislation under discussion. I begin with Article 4 on the responsibilities of the ESA, an article that does not solve the problem faced by clubs, other than football, with permits. You know that, Minister, and you too are very well. I've said it from this Step several times. There is a huge delay in issuing the certificate, mainly for basketball and volleyball, in the order of examination of the files. I will repeat this once again: we should start examining the files backwards, from sports like volleyball and basketball, which is clearly easier to complete. You could have included it in the bill we are discussing today, because you know the problem of delays, because you have been conveyed the image and the problem from athletes and their bodies. We shall proceed to paragraph 15 of that Article, where it is provided that the Secretary-General responsible for sport may determine the form and content of the certificate and the application for the grant and, in cooperation with the Minister for Finance, may adjust the amount of the fine. This paragraph is of the opinion that it is extremely problematic, because it actually enables anyone who is the Minister of Sport and Finance - if not you, someone else later if not amended - to transform the list of supporting documents into beams. We believe that such a provision will create and give rise to many more problems than it will cover. That's why we're asking for her removal. We go to Article 19, which states that for the teams participating in the Super League 2, at least half of the players declared on each match sheet throughout the championship, must meet the conditions for participation in a national team of any age category. Here, we see an ambiguity which we would like you to clarify in terms of determining the conditions. We all need to ensure - and it is necessary - that no restructuring takes place to reduce the number of professional footballers, but in any case, to maintain them and to institutionalise their work and socio-security status. Let's move on to Article 46. We read under the heading of "Personal National Sports and Associations". However, if we stand in the first paragraph, we see that there is no reference to associations. The word is missing. I think it's a typographic error. I therefore imagine that you will fix it by the end of the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, sport has many years of problems which we must cure. Staying in football, we consider it necessary to strengthen the institutional framework of safeguarding and satisfying the cleared demands of professional footballers against PPPs who are being demolished and then regaining the legal nature of an PPP. The pre-existing, but also the existing failures, if they are combined, unfortunately, with highly contradictory decisions adopted by the administrative court of the ETUC, cause conditions of lack of credibility and confidence in the rights of athletes. Equally important is the strengthening of institutional consolidation and the entry into force of all the regulations relating to PPP and soccer relations. Already, there is the institutional framework. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need some time from my dentistry, Madam President. However, there are issues of further assistance and safeguarding them by the social partners, Lisbon and the PSC, with the care and supervision of the PSC, in particular by signing collective labour agreements. We believe it would be extremely helpful and beneficial if we proceeded with the creation of a "Guarantee Fund" that would support athletes and athletes. A number of countries have recently made progress in its creation. The Netherlands is one of them. Let us start a serious debate on how it could stand in our country as well. And I will conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with an issue that really angered me and embarrassed me, not only as a parliamentarian, especially as a woman. I suspect you saw the sexist broadcast of a large television station, "AND1", which shows two teams of women hit a penalty with an extremely provocative appearance. In fact, the spots started playing before each game of "EURO 2020", sincerely insulting thousands of girls playing football in our country. This is a five-minute period that if you see it, it really is outrageous. It's really bounced in sexism and it serves nothing but its promotion. This is a video produced by patriarchal ideology and bad humor. Naturally, the spot also raised a storm of reactions, with seven women's groups requesting the Federation's intervention in its withdrawal by official letter. These groups are the "ATHINES", the "JANNENA", the "PYSEOS" Glyfada, the "AEC" Mesologi, the "OLYMPIDA" of Hymitou, the "ASTERA" of Rethymno and the "NATIONAL" of Piraeus. Personally, I consider it insulting and afflicting to promote such images that are pressed on wrong standards and that are light years away from soccer athletes in our country who are struggling as hard as men and, indeed, in adverse conditions, as the regime governing female football is still considered amateur in our country. Women's Football - we all know - is not a show with semi-naked athletes who are struggling and suffocating within a court. That is why we must all preserve it. If, Minister, you had listened to the voices of athletes and sports and had moved on to change, making the female football professional, as it should be, you might not have interrupted these behaviours, because we said that there is a bad humor in the middle, but certainly, you would have made them think about it again before creating this sexist and insulting monstrosity. Unfortunately, you still do not go ahead with drawing up a development plan for female football in Greece and its recognition, while it shows rapid growth worldwide and UEFA has put it very high on its agenda. We invite you to begin the debate slowly, even with the delay of recognising the race and the offering of our sport, by giving them the place they deserve. Do it to improve the conditions in terms of contracts and their lack of them in female football. Do it to protect our athletes from such incidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u114	Madam President, may I have the floor for a clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u115	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u116	I would like to tell you, Madam President, that I fully agree with the point of view and the sex messages that arise from this. It is something that has bothered us too, and I am sure it will be withdrawn, or whatever it will be an example of avoiding the next period. But I'll make a little correction if you'll excuse me. It's not women's football. It's women's football or men's football. On the other hand, perhaps something that escapes you is that they do not even have a body to represent women who have decided to deal with football so that communication and cooperation with them are extremely difficult. We want, as a ministry, and I say publicly, to strengthen women's football. In fact, we have addressed and launched a debate to be held by UEFA on women's football. One of this. Two. It's not under the responsibility of the Minister of Sports whether it's going to be professional or amateur. It is a question of the groups themselves, on the one hand, who must discuss it and, of course, seek it with their organizing authority. It's not the Ministry's business. If you ask us, we would very much like to be professional as in fact, not in the press, professional is the A1 women's volleyball class, is the A1 women's basketball class, a professional is both men's and women's polo or the men's and women's handball. However, they are considered amateur. But it is not under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Sport, I say it, to make it clear. You have now referred to your amendments. As far as the demands of the PSAT, the footballers. You are absolutely right, but it is still not the job of the Ministry of Sport whether or not the representatives of the PSAT are involved in the institutions of the PSAT. We really do. In fact, I would remind you that, with a provision that we passed in a previous bill for the first time, representatives of athletes in all federations are involved in the administration equally with the right to vote. Our spirit is very clear in favour of this. But in order for the representatives of the PSC to participate in all the committees of the PSC, first of all, it must also of course be approved by the administration of the PSC because it is self-governed, on the one hand, the NCA must apply faithfully - and we are followers of this view - the holistic study. If we single-handedly do it, it's like breaking the self-defence. I imagine you don't want that either. Secondly, with regard to the amendment on volleyball and VolleyLeague, I have repeatedly answered my very good colleague Mr Dermenzopoulou from Evros, from Alexandroupolis, for a request he himself has carried and has reached us on the agony of the volleyball team and their request to examine the possibility of joining the group which is involved in the A1 category male volleyball. This is something that again is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Sport. I explained it to my colleague, and we can be happy to have a meeting. It has been decided to hold a meeting in the next few months with representatives of this group. The Ministry doesn't decide if the teams are eight, ten, twelve in the volleyball, basketball or anywhere. The organizing authority decides. It's not our business. If we decided on our own, we'd still destroy our own property. I guess you don't want that either. In order not to reply to you in writing, I am speaking to you. And I would like to inform the House of these two key issues which I think solve many misunderstandings, especially those who are following us and want in every way to enable them to fight in larger categories. It's not the Sports Department's job to go up with various sports teams on charges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, too, Minister. Now Mr. Xanthopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel a little awkward about sport in the presence of Mr George Mavrotas and Mrs Sophia Sakorafas, two people who have reached the highest points of sporting ideal and sporting effort, but in any case, because of our parliamentary status, we must say some things about a major social issue which is sport and at least our logic, in the logic of the Left, sport is primarily a social phenomenon. It is a social right, a means of realising and completing human personality. And just because he has a huge social acceptance at all the lengths and backs of the world also causes economic interest. It should not, however, be omitted from our viewpoint, from our point of view, its social dimension. Because if it is omitted, the content is completely dehydrated and a mere and obscene economic transaction takes place. It is indicative and I keep the position of the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Plumb, who refers to the context we are discussing today, which is essentially related to professional sport, but who also touches other aspects of sport, has spoken exclusively about basketball and football and about the purely professional dimension of these sports, perhaps - I do not want to say whether I have intentions - because this approachs the issue of sport. Sports, however, is also the runway. Sports is the beadball. Sport is also swimming and another forty-nine federations, if I remember correctly, Minister. All this is sport for this, and the state's final body is called the General Secretariat of Sports. Secondly, we are talking about sport in pandemic times, which, together with the country, of course, has also been tested by all the sports structures. It is necessary for immediate support to be given to all players in the sport movement whether they are clubs, whether they are administrations or are athletes, or they are coaches, to relaunch this particular social activity. Because, of course, we're talking about the big part of amateur sport. And indeed, Minister, he does not look forward to the sum of thirteen million. Engage for the next period that you will strengthen. We will expect to see and judge on the basis of the Minutes and the results. I am entering into specific provisions of the bill, and I would like to say this: the Committee on Professional Sport, Mr Minister, has a double dimension. It has an administrative and judicial authority on the one hand. In fact, this committee is also a quasi-judicial court. Therefore, you must bear in mind that in order to issue a decision which has the elements of a judicial decision, there must be a regulation, there must be a framework within which it is moving. I'm not talking about an internal procedure. However, I am talking about an internal regulation which determines what elements the committee has made its decisions. Will it, for example, be written skeptical? When it says: "I refuse to grant permission to "Glory Drama" it will justify it because it is rejected or confined to a wording of its decision. These are very important elements, precisely because they show how the system works and whether each association of persons, such as unions, has such a treatment that emits the rule of law in which we aspire to belong and be treated as a party with rights and not only with obligations. I was impressed by a position taken by a colleague who was before and indeed by the New Democracy for the family ticket, and I draw the inspiration from my colleague to say that you can give a voucher to the unemployed, to vulnerable social groups, to multiples. With such gestures you will motivate these people to attend various sports events, so that sport will also become part of people who do not have easy access to this social phenomenon, but also themselves to feel that they are entitled to take part in this social event, which is a source of joy and satisfaction for many people. As a sector of justice, I would like to be brief on the provisions of Articles 13, 14 and 15. Minister, you're taking too much responsibility. You are changing the responsibility of all the teams, the football anonymous companies for the damages committed by their fans. It is reasonable to say that they did not recognize any union so that they did not have the responsibility. Now whatever damages will be borne by natural perpetrators, who are usually on the woods hanging and weak and unable to compensate those affected... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. ... and thus basically the AAC themselves do not feel the obligation to digest and discipline these people. You need to find a medium solution. It's not the moment. I'm getting tired of time, but you need to see it. The full discharge of the ODP from the responsibility of the host armies must not pass. Secondly, we have talked about Article 14. Listen to me, Article 14 opens a very slippery path. Mr. Plearis said it. We fully disagree on the part of the dogmatic approach of the Criminal Law, but since the first time it cannot have - because today there is no redemption of the sentence, there is only socially beneficial work - a suspensive effect. If the court considers that he is a suspect, that he may commit a repetition of offences, it may be at the discretion of the court and not in advance be horizontally treated. Finally, I say this as an argument, Minister. Mr Orphanus' law has been revoked for two reasons, because there has been a reservation from the courts - because the first-degree court, because it has the security of the secondary court, which will be judged definitively - and not the defendants, because you understand that it is a disaster for people to enter prison for a crime for which, to a second degree, they will be acquitted. There was a social reaction that forced Mr Orphanus to change. Therefore, it is a very serious issue and we really also have an anti-response. For felony people will be tried and kept out of prison under the favorable conditions that the court decides and offences will be brought to prison. In other words, in this part of the horizontal treatment of law and order, the fight against any infrastability, we oppose and invite you to see it again. You don't offer good services. Last comment, Madam President, is Article 15. It makes it compulsory to subject restrictions to the exercise of criminal prosecution. You can understand that you're going through a lot of trouble. As the rule of law the citizen has rights. In the sense of practical action and of giving a sample of writing, we cannot restrict the rights of citizens. I would also like to make a legal point, Minister, and I think I am right, and I invite you to include it in your corrections, that in Article 14, paragraph 6, the particular thing you say 'in the case of the deceptive acts of this Article, any conversion, in the event of a conviction for the criminal offences under this Article' is a piece of legislation that you can do. So for all of this, Mr President, because I have exceeded my time, you can understand that these points are not convergence points. There are signs of strong criticism and you are calling for it to be rethinked, even at the very last moment, because we are leading to serious violations of the rule of law. Thank you very much, Madam President, for tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u119	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Pascalides from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u120	Madam President, until my colleague comes in to answer that question?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u121	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u122	Mr. Colleague, the order we've been through on the peculiarity is given to the judge...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u123	You say that in paragraph 2.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u124	...to have the decision of a suspensive character. We anticipate that. So, first of all, we are not doing what you have described on the one hand, and on the other hand we are keeping the notes and the remarks you have made very carefully. In the spirit we do not disagree, we simply have to take the initiative and deal with the problem in the face. That is our difference, but in the spirit that you described very beautiful and very wisely, we do not disagree. And one detail on the very interesting proposal you said about the voucher: this debate has begun from a union in Larissa. A few months ago I heard this proposal from a representative from a union in Larissa. Very interesting proposal I have to say. We've started working on it, but it's clearly on second fate, as we still have no possibility of being fans on the stands, on the field, so it's something that's really interesting, we're working on it and hopefully with God's help very soon, until we can get the green light on the presence of fans on the court and at sports facilities, we can have a good news to tell them. Let me also give you some information that came a few hours ago when the infectious meeting was over. A committee has already been set up, at our request - it was one of the requests we had made for this meeting - and it was the acceptance of our proposal to set up a team from the Committee on Logistics, which will now work on a plan for the presence of fans within the courts, based on the entire debate on the protocol submitted by Super League a few months ago. Then, of course, the second pandemic wave broke, so we left it behind. Therefore, this protocol will be updated or on it any debate will be held by the infectious. We are very happy about this development. And of course, the debate that is developing - and on a proposal from Super League 1 - is to address vaccinated people to be able to have more people on the stadiums. It is, therefore, something that is officially beginning today after the decision of the infectious and, of course, this protocol that will be updated will be a guide to the protocols of the other events and sports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, too, Minister. Now Mr Pascalides has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, before I begin my speech, I too should like to express my warmest congratulations to Stephano Chipas and Maria Sakkaris for their great success. Their future is erased bright. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is another important step in the path of resolution and cleansing in the field of sport, a long, difficult road, but I am sure Mr Aeggeakis will go to the end with the support of all of us. So, following the resolution on the reform of the institutional framework of the anti-Sports agencies, the Law on the manipulation of sports games and on the treatment of violence in sport and the harmonisation of Greek legislation with the Anti-Donoping Code of the World Organisation, today comes to the vote for a bill to reform the institutional framework of the Committee on Professional Sport, to harmonise the Greek legal order with proposals for the totalitarian study of FIFA and UEFA on football, to restructure the professional categories of football, but also to introduce for the first time regulations on the issue of the rights and obligations of the coaching profession in sport. With the ultimate aim of sport being constantly in the hands of healthy forces and of raising sporting and developmental forces, this draft law reshapes the institutional framework of professional sport in order to shield it and its members with guarantees of functional and personal independence, choosing to maintain its subordination to the General Secretariat of Sports, for reasons related both to the non-taxation of taxpayers and to good administrative practice. From Part II of the bill on the harmonisation of Greek legislation with proposals from the international football federations, which are contained in the holistic study of FIFA and UEFA on the problems and diseases of Greek football, I would like to dwell on Articles 12 to 14. More specifically, these provisions rationalise the objective responsibility of the teams, the reactions of their fans and provide for a system of organised Fans' Movements. Thus, in the event of acts of violence and of incidentality in organised travel, a system of sanctions is envisaged against the victims, and if the perpetrators are not identified, sanctions are provided for against all members of the club or clubs involved in the movement. It is also worth mentioning that Article 14 reintroduces the peculiarity, i.e. prohibiting the suspension and conversion of the Moslems of Freedom of Penalty for Criminal offences on the occasion of sporting events. The proposed provisions C'Parties introduce the restructuring of professional soccer categories in the context of strengthening their viability in order to make the necessary adjustments to the new economic and social conditions. So, after the abolition of the Second National Class Football League, two professional classes of football championships are set up, first the A1 National Championship of Men Super League 1 and secondly the A2 National Championships of the Super League 2. In addition, this bill in Part IV introduces arrangements to achieve the effective and productive functioning of the National Anti-Doping Agency, the establishment of which as an independent legal entity with legal personality was an international obligation for Greece in the field of sport according to the World Anti-Doping Organisation. A special reference should be made to the provisions of Part I of this draft law which solves a complex and incomplete problem, which most governments so far have not dared to touch, the question of the rights and obligations of the training profession in sport. So the equivalence of the graduates of the country's Physical Education and Sport Sciences with the main specialization of football with the UEFA B diplomas is finally established. All UEFA B and above football coaches are authorized to pursue a profession and three levels of A, B and C are formally established with the relevant qualifications and rights attached to each level. In addition, a National School of Coaches is set up within the General Secretariat of Sports and through it covers the production process for sports and most importantly, the Electronic Register of Coaches is activated in accordance with the standards of the Register of amateur Associations, which will include those who legally practice the profession of coach and will be categorised on the basis of sport, qualification and level of coaching to which they belong. In closing my speech, I would like to stress that both the current draft law and the previous bills of the Ministry of Sport are areas for Greek sport. It should be noted, however, that all these bills have been embraced by the base of the sports hierarchy, namely the athletes themselves, which shows that the current government is certainly moving in the right direction. Mr Augias gives a huge battle every day for the democratisation and household of sport, based on democracy, transparency and parity, and that is why he deserves warm congratulations. Minister, we are next to you and we support. Keep up the fight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now let's go to the third Webex chat circle. Mr. Bukoros Christos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am glad that, if I have seen the list of speakers correctly, I will close the debate and the speeches by colleagues. We are all, Minister, very happy because we see in the “EURO 2020” stadiums that normality returns, that we see the fans on the platforms, that we see beautiful football matches with no sad phenomena in the field. And I would say, Minister, that we are delighted even more that your announcement that the Committee of Embassies very soon decides on the return of Greek fans to the courts and sports. It is certainly also a sign that we are returning to normality in our social life, a large part of which is sport as a major social phenomenon in the world, from ancient times until today. But here in Greece, Mr Minister, in fact the great disease of sport and especially the 'king of sports', as we are used to saying, football, is sports violence. Indeed, too many bills have been passed, too many attempts have been announced, but violence is here to make a very healthy phenomenon such as sport. I would say that you are right to emit by the provisions of today's bill that things are now being tightened up. The example I think is the classic that we are all discussing is what happened in the 1980s in Great Britain, where football was plagued by extreme and mass violence on all stadiums, almost all teams. That is where the state took strict measures, severely punished, with criminal provisions which were draconian. But then we also had other restrictive and restrictive measures. In other words, no one involved in hooligan activities had the right to go to the field for several years later. And not just that. I remind the oldest people that at the time of the team's struggle, he gave him a presence at the police station concerned. Now, of course, I listen with interest to the remarks made by the Vice-Presidents, but I do not think that the members of the legislature should take the decisions of the judiciary or judge them, if you like, with ease that the judges have worked like this or otherwise. We are voting for laws and justice, in the context of the separation of powers, I think it always applies them correctly. And with the Minister's emphasis that there is a primary suspensive possibility, I think we will all send out a message that sports spaces, stages are areas of peace, reconciling sites if you want to speak and they are not areas of mass violence. As far as this debate is concerned, all our colleagues are aware, and we all know that, Minister, that the flood with speed, lightning, within a few seconds, could lead to a massive influx of fans. In other words, simple steepness can create generalised episodes, with unforeseen and often tragic, painful results. Therefore, tightening up the framework for dealing with violence in sports spaces is a major issue and, in my opinion, you are right to put things in their real dimension through the provisions of the bill. From there on, Minister, I would like to focus on the restructuring of the categories of football. I think that what characterizes these provisions is the attempt to house. That is, what I understand is that you are putting in a framework of obligations at the same time and balanced with a framework of rights for football clubs in large categories. So, what's going on? Here each football team must meet certain conditions to participate in the championships. What are these conditions? The share capital should be increased. That's right, Minister. Because a company - because it is about football companies - must prove its financial soundness, as is done with all companies and the rest of society and the rest of the economy, so that the sport which has an economic dimension can be involved in the future. Only one comment, if I may, Minister, on what you had in mind to all shareholders. I would ask you to study with your partners if it is possible for shareholders who own less than 5% of the shares in a group - and I tell you this because many groups in the region rely on popular participation, on the people's basis, on the one share, on the 100 to 1,000 euros that the pure fan will put in order to complete the group's share capital, 5% with a ceiling of 17,500 euros on the 350,000 share capital - not to be required 'from any point of view' because this scares the fan world and those who want to help their teams and possibly to prevent them from operating. See the legal dimension of the proposal. Otherwise, it is right to increase the share capital, as is the need for a guarantee letter. The compulsory participation of Greek footballers at a very significant rate is self-evident in the positive direction. These are the obligations of the groups. They also have rights, but they are made clear for the first time with the Ausgarian bill. I mean, they know what funding the teams are waiting for before the championship starts. Their part - let me speak - will be predetermined through institutional procedures in cooperation with the relevant Committee of the Ministry of Finance. With the central management of television rights for three years, which will be the other source of group revenue, so we have a pluralism of income for professional football. They will, if you want, ensure that the shareholders and the owners of the teams do not only put money, but they will know how much they will receive and when they will receive it. That's essential. That is to say, to collect part of the funding in July and the other at the end of the year, on the strict condition that they have the guarantee letter, that there will be no footballers and trainers unpaid and that there will be no financial obligations on the insurance funds in order to have the insurance and tax information to collect the subsidy, that the environment will be completely cleaned up. However, the law we are voting on today, ladies and gentlemen, ensures funding for amateur associations, funding that the amateur unions have seen in their funds with the Association Register for the first time after too many years. I would say that this was the first time that all sports clubs have been co-ordinated, organised, objectively and fairly, and those who have not submitted or completed their files are now doing so, because they have seen that this is a healthy funding from a state that is facing serious, not only professional, but also amateur sport. Also, Minister, in closing, I would like to congratulate you because you are really taking a leap about the graduates of the NSAs, as we used to call them, as we said now, who have the specialty of football and were essentially excluded. In combination with the creation of the National School of Coaches, I think the environment will be normalized. All institutions, if you like, have a role, just like the NRA with its schools. However, we cannot abdicate graduates from Greek universities who, in fact, have this specific expertise. Therefore, your prediction is paving the way for the final treatment of a matter for which, to your predecessor Minister, I had tabled a timely question. It had, of course, accepted the right of the proposal and committed itself to changes. It was then replaced, of course, and you are now facing the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Colleague, you've already been in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u130	I shall conclude, Madam President. I'm asking for your tolerance. The insurance of all athletes, because we see various incidents that have happened and have, of course, also seen in the European Football Championship in the last case, remind us that we need to have our athletes shielded. I believe, Minister, that your bill will house things in football and I hope in the entire range of sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u131	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u132	Madam President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u133	Yes, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u134	These are two legal improvements of minor importance. I put them in order to share with my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u135	And with Mr Bukkoro, the list of speakers has been completed and we are going to secondary. I'd like to ask Mr. Loyadis if he'll get a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u136	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Boobas?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u138	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u139	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u140	Minister, some questions arise. We didn't get answers. I would repeat that, and there are some clarifications you should make. First of all, this with the Committee on Limitology, with bioethics - because the Prime Minister has opened up the issue - to have some mandatory vaccinations for people working in health. In fact, this extends to teachers, and I don't know now, I don't know right now, we don't understand well, we don't understand well, does the vaccine go compulsory to athletes and people to get into the stadiums? I want you to say that a little bit, because that's where it goes slowly. If vaccination is mandatory and on the stadiums, other constitutional rights are being circumvented. We need clarification. Secondly, what I said about the merger of Super League 2 with Football League. If these groupings are to compete and take from television rights too, this will deprive the rest of the teams, which are basically the championship teams. And in these teams, which if they're involved in play off, it's double the evil. They will be teams that will enable players to run away in order to stop this with the borrowers. However, there is still no legislative framework. So borrowers in other groups can go. But I told you that the games would be suspicious of manipulation, they would be "dignified" matches and they might be chic matches, where some teams that will work for the benefit of other teams will sit for the result because there will be no rated interest. So he can deprive a fair championship and become a men's championship or a suspect championship. This also concerned Italy at some point. Another must have one of their own championships, all teams and there is a prize money, if you want, there either by tie or by victory to have the guarantees. But, here now, the teams will just get in to play, they'll join teams and they'll just get from television rights and, possibly, it's also for the benefit of some other teams for the different groups, which if they're in "Woe and Woe". They will also eat more goals to raise the “PRODUCT”. That needs to be considered. It's not fair the championship, it's not fair, I guess. The third part is that there is the problem - and I sincerely am pleased that you have it solved - with the graduates of Physical Education with regard to UEFA diplomas on the part of the UEFA to be able through the General Secretariat of Sports to obtain permission to practice the coach's profession. Here I'm talking to players, who've given the hair, they're Physical Education Teachers, they didn't have those degrees. I'm talking to my friend, the international footballer George Tsifoutis from Serres, who also went through large championship teams, there were coaches, trainers who paid from their pocket for these seminars. So that this issue can be resolved. Fourthly, I told you about some unions, Minister, that they have a problem with the teachers of physical education because there is no corresponding specialty. I brought you, for example, the judo, on the occasion of the letter sent to you by the Drama Judo Sports Association, the 'Gegassus', which is risking over eighty children in an Olympic sport, such as judo - and it is important - that they cannot train. And there is the question: Teachers with three and six nanny, why do they say that abroad can as teachers teach? Will you give a solution to this matter? Second example: I spoke a little earlier with the Kerkinite Naval Group in the lake of Pethelinos Serres, who cannot find a coach with the corresponding degree so that they can obtain the permission in the register of the General Secretariat of Sports. Questions arise, as there are clubs with adult athletes - not minors, it is important - who train twice a year and now demand that there be a coach and that the relevant paradox be paid. The point is there are always some details that if you want to bring in the bill, you need to see and there are no social injustices - adversities. But there is another issue, and at last there is a Minister for Sports, and it is the question of the horse race. On the hippodrome there is the "Come see". There is neither a verifier nor a verifier, because the verifier is a cohabiter and a verifier. Members of the OPCW are in the "Philippine Union of Greece". She's the one who controls the racetrack. We used to have the hanky there, that 20%. Now there are horses with banned substances, they escape the sentences of some horse coaches responsible for the dopted horses and members of the "Philippi Association of Greece" are also members of the OPCW that controls the racetrack. If you do, there will be a resolution in the field of the horse race so that it does not become a horseback there. The verifier may not be a party to and audit. It is a sport, which one should at last, over all these years, deal with what is going on in the horse race and there is a lot going on. Look at it a little. Look into it. I repeat, however, that I would like clarification to tell you clearly with the Committee on Limitology whether it will be mandatory for the vaccine to enter the field. On this issue, which has increased by EUR 100,000 the guarantee for the groups, we have to tell the day from the wheat. That's a truth. And my team, the "Pancerian", must present you with a nice detailed plan to be a libertarian. But bear in mind that in the last two years, Mr Augarian, my Minister, the groups have not had any revenue. It was 250,000, going to 350,000. Clearly there must be money to pay coaches, footballers, carers, suppliers. But I want you to take this serious parameter as well. But surely there must be well-being and housekeeping in the teams. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr. Synthrakis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Madam President. The Minister spoke to us forty-five minutes about the three wounds of Greek sport. Right: Violence, doping, manipulation. He did not answer us, however, from the point of view of this: Who is responsible? Where are the causes? But there have been dozens of sports bills over time. Are they handled? Not only were they not dealt with, instead these problems became gigantic. He said Mr. Bukouros earlier that the stadiums are halls. No objections. Sure. Except in professional football it's a arena, it's a field of business conflict. At the same time, another Member of the New Democracy, Mr Ploris, said that the group violence originates from the factors. Shame on you! Of the factors, of the people who put their backs on the pocket, who give all their best self to stand the Greek amateur sport? [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] We say this clearly as a Communist Party of Greece that the womb of the hostage violence is the very pursuit of maximum profit and in any way. Why are these years reigning? Is that fate's script? Is this some kind of divine punishment? Is it because the Greek people have a lack of education? Is it because there's a supposedly inappropriate minister? We don't believe any of this. The fact that soccer has become synonymous with the goods sold and purchased and makes players machine doesn't tell you anything? You all expressed regret for the Danish footballer, Ericsen, who collapsed inside the court. The defibrillator, of course, is one of the prisoners. And it's a question of how many stadiums in our country, how many sports spaces have defiance. How many, though, and how many players have suffered the consequences of intensification to increase their profits by the big businessmen, players who faint with heart attacks, who even lose their lives in the field? There is another world of Mrs Sacorafa, Mr Mavrota - I mean as athletes with the history they have - and it is another thing that the world of traded sport is. We're not gonna put it all in a sack. Of course not. So how can rules be laid down - rules laid down, we are not saying that rules are not laid down - and that they are effective when the power of the mighty prevails? The JRC obviously opposes violence, doping, the manipulation of matches, gambling, because it simply opposes the womb of all those who are the same rotten system you serve and for which they are not speaking about. 'Fermour', talk none of the other parties. In relation to the amendments, we have tabled three amendments as a parliamentary group and I think the Minister is obliged to take a position and tell us whether he is acceptable and if he does not, to explain why he does not accept them. We may be 'the day by night', we may be two different worlds, but the Minister has an obligation to take a stand. The first relates to the professional rights of the trainers who hold a CNG licence. It is understandable that you are publishing in the FAO, in the FAO, in the big business. But say a word to those who expect to see what happens to professional rights. Our amendment is neither rough nor inappropriate, we have tabled it again. You didn't accept it, and it looks like you're not gonna do it. And you told us that the provisions had been discussed with the institutions. Question. Did you talk to the university community? Even the discussions and with whom you choose to consult "cut and sew them" in your measures. We respect graduates, says Mr. Yannis Loverdos. And even our party doubts what we have said, that EPA is a private company. Why, what is it? The Greek Industrial Association what is it? Doesn't he represent industrialists? What does the NCA represent? Does it not represent big business in the football field, does it not represent the PPPs? And not only that, but the spokesperson of the PSC came to the audience and lied unheard of, and there was no honesty on the part of the government to say to him: "But, what are you saying here? What are those lies you're talking about?" He sent you a letter from the dean of the University of Thessaly. Take a stand against these issues. The second concerns the resolution of the problem of paid remuneration for regular staff of sports federations and sports associations and the payment of insurance contributions. A fair request. Take a seat, make it acceptable. And the third amendment is a corrigendum - an improvement of intervention that you must do, despite the positive impact of Article 55 of Law No.4603/2019 paragraph 2. It does not provide for the possibility of an association or federation transferring personnel to another association or federation to extend, not only to those who hold organic positions, but also to those who hold individual positions. For the professional categories of football, we said that this restructuring is obviously not the first time. We had restructurings every time this miserable situation of the football area was derailed, trying to keep this miserable situation in a balance. And here the criterion is the protection of professionally traded football. We intended to vote 'the present'. We won't vote for it, though. We will vote against it. And you know why? Why are you bringing a government amendment to Article 1 that provides for the creation of a beta team in an OEM to participate in lower championships and even amateurs, which creates conditions for the inequality championships of the team, since it can even play with professional players in relation to the rest of the teams? In other words, it poses problems both in the teams and in the championships under the terms of participation set by the EEA, i.e. the ODPs. In addition - and I thank you for the tolerance, Madam President - in relation to the insurance of athletes in Article 42 we will vote 'at present' and we will vote 'at present' because our party has always been in favour of the insurance of athletes. But, he considers that it should be full of insurance and pension rights, without any government and employer's "threads" and fighting for all of this. Incorporate a provision in Article 42 along with others that we disagree vertically. In an effort to alleviate some of the real huge problems, it is possible for athletes to sign up to their private sports contracts which will be submitted to federations and which, if these financial exchanges amount to a minimum of EUR 3 000, compulsory sports insurance is introduced at a rate of 1%. In our view, this is an incomplete, provocative regulation which in no way solves problems. First, it is possible to sign the private pact, i.e. if the owner of the group wishes. And secondly, who will sign private contracts? Is he going to be the athlete? Is it gonna be the union? Who will it be? Finally, in relation to Articles 49 and 50 on the verification of the legality of decisions of the OAS Management Board and the verification of the legality of decisions of the management board of the OAS based on the ‘POGA’, what does it mean for ‘the OAS’ or ‘the CST’? You need to explain it to us. So he can use his facilities to do what? It is obvious that it is another step in the full privatization of public sports centres, such as Saint Cosmas, OAS, ETF, and the tradition of unconditional business interests. And as if that were not enough, the government, at public expense, repairs sports facilities by saying that nothing has happened in the past by other Secretarys and Governments. Which is what it is. Why? It's a pretext, it's a way of delivering them to chosen business benefactors! What about the new OECD tennis facilities? Who made them, Minister, and who will take advantage of them? What about the OECD's swimming pools? How did it get blown up and took the money and the compensatory projects from Agios Kosmas to the OASA? The OAS is not a private body, it is a public body, it is a state, it is of the people. You can't play with these issues like that. We believe that sport is a public social asset and obviously cannot enter the logic of profit. As long as it's in the logic of profit, these phenomena that you analysed quite correctly, that's what we'll have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u143	Thank you too, Mr. Synchronous. Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, thank you. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, both in the debate on the bill on committees and in your prototype, I pointed out the main issues raised by the bill and, of course, the necessary changes that need to be made. I have talked about changes, ladies and gentlemen, which respect and safeguard the rights of athletes, as well as coaches and sports actors. Minister, on 20 January 2020 an amendment on ownership is coming. A memorandum of cooperation for the holistic study between the country's Prime Minister Mitsotakis and FIFA-UEFA is signed on 25 February 2020. On 30 November 2020, however, we ask, with Mr Andreas Loverdos, whether the holistic study should come to Parliament, so that both the committee and the House can be informed. This holistic study comes after several months and specifically you bring it to plenary today and I would say that I do not need to say more. Anyone can draw their conclusions. I'm coming to the pseudonym. I am going through the peculiarity and prohibition of converting or suspending penalties for sporting violence. Mr Minister, I told you in the committees, I told you and in the morning in my prototype, the strictness of penalties will not solve the problem. Violence is a complex event. In fact, violence is a matter of culture and education. It's a matter of discipline. It takes time and it takes a lot - a lot of action. The fight must start at school. School plays a leading role. Through the school, both the speech and the "fight". However, ladies and gentlemen, legislation today exists and is deterrent. Therefore, I do not think, Minister, that further stricterisation is needed. Now we're going to the issue of the professional rights of CSR graduates. It is an issue that I would say has taken place all these days and has been debated from the edge to the edge of all the country's NSA university schools. A lot has been said in all the wings. The graduates with a football specialty, one is the fact, they're in hostage. For years they have been struggling to be able to practice their profession, of course according to the specialty they receive from the NSAs. In other words, they are not awarded a coach's diploma by their graduation and this is without having the seminars required by the NRA. In fact, these are seminars with the corresponding tuition fees, tuition fees which, as a whole, are up to 6,000 euros. Today, Minister, you are bringing in a regulation by saying that you are finding a solution to the graduates of BSE with a speciality in football, saying that you are following, as you said, the middle street and of course you are also respecting the self-employed. Finally, what you are doing is stepping up the problem and giving them the "UEFA B" as a coach's diploma. So, university CSR graduates give them the right to teach up to 1 local, to be coaches up to 1 local. Lead graduates to specialize in football by law at the seminars. And you're putting U.S. absolutely sovereign here. And of course you are putting her completely dominant in the business future of these graduates. Proposal purely and once, allow these graduates to take the diploma or diploma 'UEFA B' so that they are professional coaches. Nor should the NCA certify through the seminars scientific coaches with a seminar of EUR 1,000 for UEFA A or EUR 5000, as I said, for UEFA Pro. Ladies and gentlemen, the hearing of the bodies was revealing, likewise the statements submitted to our committee on the disputed provision for CSR in the country. Specifically, the schools of both the Kapodistrian University and Aristotle and the Democratium and the University of Thessaly have clearly indicated to us that the qualifications acquired by the graduates of the NSAs, the hours of teaching, the courses and teaching skills are such that they can actually get the degree or diploma of football coach. We, Minister, have proposed that, since the seminars are required by UEFA, as you said, to take place within the academic framework of study and, indeed, in the last six months of study, without, of course, any cost to students. And after their graduation, they actually get the soccer coach's license. You have nothing more to do than adopt it. And be sure, Minister, and you and the Secretary-General, that after being adopted by you, we shall vote on this bill. After all, it is the same teachers who teach at the NCAs who teach the seminars in the NCA. So, ladies and gentlemen, make your conclusions. I note, however, again, as I said in the morning, that the professional rights attributed by the State within qualifications are set by the EEA and not by the EEA through the seminars. Also, with a similar context to note that the National School of Coaches should not, Minister, be the cause of undermining the diplomas of CCAMLR. At the same time, Minister, you have not taken into account that there are sports where there are no LFS members, but LFS members, such as special educational staff, for example in Volleyball, where provision is actually needed here. So you need to predict it. As should also provide for the certification of IEK graduates in CCAMLR and SCAF members. Also positive is the increase in the share capital of the Super League 1 teams to 70 000 euros and for the Super League 2 teams to 350,000 euros and of course the guarantee equivalent to 200,000 euros and 150,000 euros. Finally, I note that we are in favour of the concession of the Botanic country's 'Panathinaiko' as well as for the 'Olympic'. We are in favour of regulating the historic Panionian team. "Panionios" has a great offer in Greek football and must have this price, as I mentioned earlier. As far as the development teams are concerned, Mr Minister, we did say that we were in favour of this proposal because they are of a development nature and nothing more. We call on you to take account of our comments at the last minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. Mr Constantine Markos, rapporteur of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u146	Thank you very much, Mr President. A little while ago - you were not in the Chair - we again witnessed the presence of the Minister in a style and with some expressions that really degrade and insult Parliament. Our parliamentary representative, Mr Moraitis, very well began his speech, saying that "I am pleased, Minister, that today your suggestion was in another sense and in another tone". I'll tell you a proverb. A scorpion once wanted to cross the river, but because he didn't know about swimming, he asked the frog to carry him. The frog tells him that "I do not carry you, because you will bite me and I will die." The scorpion tells him I don't do that, because if I bite you, we'll sink, we'll both die." Says the frog: "That's right, that's logical. Come on, get up.' He goes up halfway across the river, turns the scorpion and pinchs him. And as they were both boasting, the frog tells him: "Well, why did you do it? Now we're both going to die." The scorpion's answer was: 'I couldn't resist my nature'. So the Minister was unable to resist earlier. I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, you now have a recent past. You have been here, but you now have a recent past. Your raid with the Minister's guidance and the support from the environment of the Great Maximos had Mr. Aygeakis as a perpetrator and this space of sport will not forget it. Your two-year term, Minister, is only good for your chosen ones and you know very well that whoever you have supported, what you have taken in your hands and where the world of sport has been exposed to public spheres has rejected it, has denounced it, except for a minimum of exceptions. It is characteristic that the committees in particular have made your speech with reference to what you have said, to present today's bill as a continuing attempt to make supposed changes. Of course, the fact that you started your three pillars with Article 14 for the peculiarity, is nothing but a conscious effort to hide your lack of politics in sport and do that, because today's bill not only solves no problem of professional football, but mainly because you are consciously avoiding to touch the interests of interlocutor and corruption that holds it. The bill you brought us and told me you were going to put a class in professional football doesn't reduce any real problems. He doesn't touch, not solve, he doesn't even touch it. This is a disgusting piece of work. Response: Flow your bills. You said four bills so far and there's more to come. What does that mean to someone thinking rationally? That you do not have a specific holistic program or a specific full policy and every "night we improvise", which Pirantello says. It is not a good thing that you carry successively - let the night-old amendments - fragmented and à la carte, choice of irresponsible provisions which should not affect the bad texts in the football field in particular. You dare, but you can't do it, you can't vote in the U.S. elections all the unions and not the associations. Only with this opening to the unions will corruption and complexity be reduced. Talk about this if UEFA has objections. Talk and claim it. You have rushed to abolish the simple analogue in the election of unions and federations. That would basically be renewal. So the system would bring the real renewal. We're talking about 85% renewal. Good! If you drop the age limit at sixty, we'd have 100% renewal. You're making a law. It's no other way. We also see the consequences now on basketball. He lost his appeal again, from what I learned. I don't know if you can confirm and you will continue to stand up to Vassilikopoulou, Chardalia and Chrysochoidis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let's come now. We say nice words: Consensus. There are different starting points, but there can be little. Bring a provision to the next bill that UAE as anonymous companies pass to the Ministry of Development and then you will see our consent and not just from us. You rejected the amendment because you said it was rough. That is what the JRC's amendment says. Their government spokesperson said they've testified it again. Why don't you agree not to legalise the NCA in illegality, so that it can no longer give the diplomas to the athletes who deserve it? You're judged by this audience, you know. I now come to the holistic study. You gave it to us today when the bill is being discussed. Look at this. We said UEFA's holistic study has prevention and repression. You only chose suppression. I took a quick look at her. On pages 89 and 90, entitled 'Safety and Security', it says two major recommendations: First, strategies to keep the riots away from our games and second, National Safe Stage Certification System. Prevention is that, Minister, and it is not the repression you are bringing. I will comment on what "ERGOTEL" fans write in their communication. I hope that you have seen it: "The fans have nothing to break up between us. Instead, it separates us from the ruins of our football, from every servant of the corrupt system." Sign it. They're your patriots. Finally, Mr President, because it is unitary and because it has essentially two major issues, which are the percentage to be taken by the 'Erastic Panathinaikos' and the 'Panionios' clause, we will vote in favour of it. But we have to make it quite clear that there are three articles which are really difficult for us if we were to vote on them. I'm going backwards. You come again and you extend the term of office of the Committee on Professional Competition. I told you he's not gonna catch up and do championships. Since February, you have prepared the evidence. Now give another extension. Not until the October you give it will make proper control. Secondly, you are talking about the Institute of Sports Training. You're back in business, you're getting ready. The General Secretariat has been set up and run a Scientific Support Department - I suppose you know it - with officials with qualifications, postgraduate, doctoral and degrees. There have already been training schools in cooperation with the state training agency of the NRAs, which can do this work that the institute that you're building you want to do. I guess you're dealing with NGOs and institutions. Finally, I ask - and I am really ending, Mr President - that is: the PPPs with a second group will have two votes in Lega? I have not seen anything in terms of their votes. Despite the misinformation that you have said, I hope it is yours too and is not intended. The other countries don't have a second team in the championships, Mr. General. Only the Netherlands has, as our speaker, Mrs Christidou, said, a special championship in England. Germany and Spain are only involved in the low categories, not in the category under their first category. There will be a huge problem, which you will really find and we will find in front of us. Finally, you told us, with enough style and revelation, that in the NGAA they cannot get a newspaper of athletes over thirty-five years old. First of all, you brought it to the law school. If this is possible, it is legal regulation. It shows a sloppyness, but in any case to show understanding, it's big is the bill. You know what - and I speak to you honestly as a doctor - in the SEGAS, the track is not an activity to maintain well-being and good physical condition, but it is competitive sport hard. So you know that more than thirty-five - I do not want to be a mistress - health problems can arise in people who, with the vision of sport, can participate in the Marathon, at three thousand meters of steples, at five, at ten thousand, why will they be able to take part? Are you taking this responsibility just to make a wardrobe? I'm afraid I'm going to be a master of evil. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr. Marcus. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Anastasios Bartzokas, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think the Minister's analysis of the bill has been thoroughly analysed, and all the previous days and today. I am also sure that all the questions have been answered. I would like to say here that making opposition is legitimate and not just legitimate, but also productive. It is the basis of democracy and it is also an obligation of the opposition and of the Officerial Representation. However, in these days, let me as rapporteur and member of the Committee on Morphic Affairs say that the impression that I have gained is that any opposition has been made - I say it with respect and well-meaning - has been a pretext. What do I mean? We have a bill, the fourth bill in the two years of this government, the fourth draft law in the two years of the Minister of State of Mr Aygeakis, which really reforms sport. We have issues that change, as far as fan clubs are concerned, the peculiarity, the restructuring of football, coaches, the record of coaches, amateur athletes, the insurance of athletes and many other issues, which I do not want to mention again because I am going to be tiring, which have really upset our sport and Greek society for decades. They're coming these days with this draft law. There are no political, party and ideological differences, but there are issues relating to society, our children and our athletes, which we all accept should be resolved at some point. We may have disagreements on some specific issues, but on these issues that the Minister brings, we have all agreed here and told him in every way that they should be resolved and, unfortunately, instead of going together as a fist, even on these issues of the doping of our athletes, we find disagreements. I started with what I'm about to finish. It is also legitimate to disagree with the opposition. Finally, I want to make an appeal lately, because all these issues are aroused in years and we will find them in front of us and our children and our grandchildren. So I call for you to vote for it and for you to vote for it as we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr. Barzokas. I think the rapporteurs and the special speakers have finished. There's no one else who missed talking. In order to close the debate, the Minister will take the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, if possible, at the close of today's very interesting meeting, I would like to remind you of something that, due to the pressure of time, I did not mention in my position, Mr President, regarding the compulsory registration of amateur unions in the register. Otherwise, they will have a problem staying in sports areas, sports facilities, whether they belong to the Ministry of Sports or to the municipalities and regions. By the end of August they have this opportunity to settle, because otherwise they will have issues. That is why I would remind you that we are not surprised at a minimum of months before the deadline expires. We have informed in writing since 3 February 2021 by letter to the Interior Ministers and the President of the CEDEFOP and the President of HNPE, but also of course by announcements to all amateur associations. They are therefore aware that time is pressing and must be completely settled and legitimate for those who make use of sports facilities, either the Ministry of Sports or the municipalities and regions of our country. I put this in the Minutes so that if a colleague from the other parties wants to receive it, he can be at his disposal. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] You will now allow me to try to answer a few questions that I have raised from my colleagues' position. First of all, I'll tell you about coaches. We have started a dialogue, I would say, exhausting, which takes place for the first time after two decades, and we are not just staying in the debate, but we are going to do so. Pan-Hellenic Association of Football Coaches, Pan-Hellenic Association of Soccer Coaches, Association of Greek Basketball Coaches, Association of Greek Football Coaches, Association of Greek Football Coaches, Association of Greek Football Coaches, Greek Football Coaches Association of Greek Football Coaches, Pan-Hellenic Federation of Private Instituts, Greek Federation of Coaches and Teachers, Pan-Hellenic Association of Physics Degrees, with the Quaestors of our five NSAs and TEFAs, Greek Football Federation, Pan-Hellenic Association of Private Instituts, Federation of Professional Training Association, Federation of Horse-Housing Federation, Federation of Chemistry, Federation of Chemistry and Sports, Federation of Chemistry, Federation of Chemistry Settlement of Chemistry, Federation of Chemistry of Chemistry, Pymistry of Chemistry and Sportsmistry, Federation of Chemistrymistry, Federation of Chemistrymistry and Sportsmistry, Federation of Chemistrying, Federation of Chemistrymistry, Federation of Chemistry of Chemistry Septsmistry, Federation of Chemistry of Chemistry of Chemistry, Ps, Psmistry Septsmistry of Chemistry, Psmistry of Chemistry, Ps, Psmistry, Psmistry, Psmistrymistrymography of Chemistrymistry, Psmistry, Psmography of Chemography of Chemography of Chemography of Chemistry, T. What now is this framework? Ladies and gentlemen, listen a little. If it was that easy, you'd have solved it yourself. That's the truth. If it was a two-line arrangement, you'd have done it much earlier. I'm not telling you you were useless to God. You just didn't have the boldness. That is why we have sat down and made it clear to everyone, with an exhaustive dialogue, and I and my colleagues, that we need to find a solution here. And we chose the middle solution. And take care of something. We have graduates, who have been working for years as coaches, graduates of UEFA-FIFA, that is, in the field of football. We also have professionals, who have been engaged in years and are graduates of the training schools of the General Secretariat of Sports. We also have the graduates of private and public IEC. We also have the graduates of TECA or SECA later. All these had shaped a situation and, of course, some of them now have a professional course of many years and a relationship, I would say, and a possibility of evolving and discriminating. What were we supposed to do, throw them in the nut bin? Oh, no. We have taken into account the shaped situation for many years now, chaotic, badly, but that is the reality. That's what we read. And what did we do? We took steps further, choosing the average solution. That's why there are gossips, not crippling tensions, because everyone understands that if we don't all take half a step back, we won't go one step ahead. But now listen to a few issues that I think are missing you. We put the presence of a coach for the first time, therefore jobs, in teams with athletes from 18 years old and over. Was there before? Oh, no. What does that mean? Jobs. Yes, sir. Secondly, there is a possibility for the first time that there has not been until now, so I say that there is a misconception, a reading which is not properly done by most of the Members who have spoken and spoken negatively on this matter. Until first, could the graduate of the CSAs or the CSAs by the time he ends sitting on the bench as a soccer coach? Oh, no. Is he going to be able to do it today? Yeah. Where will the graduate of 22, 23 years of age be, why will he be the graduate of CCA? He can automatically sit on the bench of the top amateur soccer class.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u151	It could have been, but the NCA banned it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u152	No, I'll say that, dear colleague. Wait a minute. So he couldn't do it unless he was following the seminars, but graduating from the university he couldn't do that. Is he going to be able to do it today? Yeah, I repeat. At the same time, with a 50% reduction, which was a tough negotiation with UEFA, FIFA, 50% in tuition fees, it will be able to go to UEFA A as an assistant coach on any team bench and of course "UEFA pro" as the first coach with its evolution. What is really going to happen with the rest of the coaches in the other categories who are no longer legal with the framework that we have announced and voted on today, Mr Buba? They're going to the canopy of unusable? The answer is 'no'. This also applies to judo coaches and any other sports. 'I have the impression that tomorrow morning after the vote there are unemployed'. Who said that? That's not the case. So I say it loud and clear. Tomorrow morning it stays as it is. For the 2022-2023 sports season, it should have been settled in the mid-term - this also applies to judo coaches - who have requests for interest in addressing their feds and the feds automatically as an intermediary will submit a request to the Ministry of Sports and automatically the National School of Coaches, so that until 2022-2023 they will have been settled, completely formal and nice and have been registered in the Coach Register so that you know, the parent, the sports player, know that he is indeed a coach and that he is not a famous coach and that we are housewife. I'm guessing no one disagrees with that. So let us be honest. There's a row coming in. It is not an easy solution, not everyone stays happy, but everyone understands that if we don't set a line now by taking half a step back, there will never be a class in this space. And with the Coach Register, but at the same time with the Register of Amateur Sports Associations, which is a basic prerequisite for writing in the register a club is to have a contract with a coach and with the minimum fee automatically enters a series of all this "black" work on the site. You realize that it is also arranged at the end - the profession of coach is evolving regardless of category in all sports. Let me just tell you that we had about eight hundred coach recruitments in the last two months of the year that passed us, because automatically after that, the unions proceeded with their requests and they were written in the register. Lucky? I guess not, you know. So the coaches, whatever the tank, have understood that, at the end of the day, this government is very seriously and responsibly aware of the role and tasks of the coach, because it is taking on our children, the children of all of us, in other words, to shape them, to train them, to protect them, to develop them. It must therefore have preconditions, it must have knowledge, it must be possible for every parent, every athlete, to see whether and whether the principal or the lady donor is a coach or a coach, and it has the relevant studies, and indeed for them to be given the opportunity to develop, because until now, until now, it will, of course, change things - as is the situation for two decades - it does not benefit sport. Our intention is to develop sport and give time to everyone to harmonise themselves with the framework we are voting on today. I'll give some other answers. Dear Mr Marcus, you said that over 35 years of age should not be involved in marathons and other events because they may have health problems and it is very likely that we have issues. Right? Mr. Marcus, you're ignoring something very basic and I think you're a doctor. Any amateur athlete, independent of age, who in the rest of the sports has not raised such a question, who decides at age 35, his 36, his 40s to get an amateur athlete's report and take part in the marathon, why would he have such an obstacle? I don't understand. However, every amateur athlete of all sports must have a health card, and will you ban him by order or by decision of the statute be involved? What are you talking about? I'm so sorry. I can't follow you, I don't understand you. You are currently introducing the restriction of athletes who have decided to change sport? How many of us don't know where they were on the track or where they were in basketball, or where they were in another sport and decide to do something else with the evolution of their lives, their course, with the weaknesses that their organization can show? I didn't get it. Why are you limiting them? Since, anyway, in all other sports other than EAGF, he could take out a card and of course he is required to have a health card, so if he had a health problem, it would appear and accordingly he would be able to participate or not. As far as the Institute is concerned, you said something about it again. Who told you about business? Where did you hear that the Institute is working with NGOs and doing business? Don't say things that have nothing to do with reality. Expose. The Institute is a structure that I can inform you that we have done the seminars of sports officials as a precursor to him. They had a lot of involvement. Within one afternoon - to see the thirst of our country's administrative sports executives - we had 2,200 "standards". It didn't go any further. So there's thirst, there's interesting. So that is what we are working on. It is neither NGO nor business nor any of the things you have described that will happen. If I understood correctly, Mr Marcus, you are asking us to move on, if we have the courage, to finally vote on football clubs rather than on associations. Yes, sir. Dear Mr Marcos, you voted against this provision when we brought it to the previous bill, the first one, which allowed clubs, which are of course registered, to vote for the first time and to be legitimate and active electors. Now you're asking us to do it in football. I am very pleased to tell you that this is included in the proportionate study. I hope that when we have the debate - and I hope Mr Digalakis will soon identify it - we will have your views on this issue better prepared. We are going on the subject of the amendment tabled by Mr Constantinople on professional rights with regard to football. That's why I told you to talk to me right after you interrupted me. Mr. Syntagaki, the superstition of football is UEFA and FIFA. I know you disagree ideologically. I get it. However, UEFA has been operating since 1954, FIFA has since 1904. So, with regard to football as a structure, as an activity - championships, European and global events - it is responsible, it is an overpowering principle. That is why, and many times too often, we have reached the thresholds of disagreement, of conflict, but that is what happens and we accept it. It is therefore clear that, for professional rights for football coaches, not for graduates of Physical Education, practically speaking, they also form their own requirements according to the specificities of each country. We had a conversation, which is why we arrived here and there is no disagreement either with the UEFA or with FIFA or with the administration of course nor with the majority of all the links that I mentioned just now. You referred to a provision concerning the transfer of personnel from federation to other sporting organisations. We are in favour of this, but unfortunately we have some disagreements with the Ministers responsible with regard to the status of these officials and how they have been recruited and with what employment relationship they are in these federations. I hope we can solve it in time. However, in our intentions it is a solution. It is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Sport, but it is clear that we are going to work because we are very interested in it, because we have federations which have too many employees and do not need them, but it also costs them all at once, without, of course, the employees, and of course, the federation having needs for such staff, but an unprecedented economic hemorrhaging is taking place. So it's in our intentions, but it's not just a matter of the Ministry of Sports. You referred previously to the theme of swimming pools, OASA, St. Kosmas. But Mr. Koutsoubas recently visited Agios Kosmas and was informed. I'm telling you, from the Step of the House. I've said it several times. Agios Kosmas is not going to close or close part of it when it alone - this results from the Memorandum of Cooperation of the Ministry of Sport with the LAMDA DEVELOPMENT - when the corresponding installation we have described in detail will open and be delivered to the premises of the Hellenic Republic or another facility will be built, such as the OECD swimming pools that we are building the largest or the largest wet bands in Europe. What about the swimming pools? They're still in the OAS. There's nothing else. Who told you anything different? The 'LAMDA DEVELOPMENT', which continues to operate and serve the whole - and will serve as soon as the external swimming pools are completed, will be a total of eleven - of the wet track teams, but also too many unions, but also of the public that we have provided for an external pool only for the OAS. The management will have it again, as has been done so far by the extremely time-determined bathing pools. That is to say, to be clear. For the rest of the facility, let's not have time, because you made a general report. I am at your disposal, whenever you want, to inform you of any detail, with everything, about the issues of our facilities and what projects they are going to run and what arrangements, how they will work, everything. Mr. Constantopoulos, for the holistic study, you have said so 50 times. The holistic study, my dear fellow Member, was submitted to the football players, Liga 1, Liga 2, to the PSAT, to the SPA and to all PPAs as of November 17th. It includes, as you now have in your hands, three issues. Three aspects really need to be applied in full: the state, the state, the FIFA, the UEFA. As far as the state is concerned, we're at 101%, gentlemen. However, because it is probably the experience that everyone has, which can bring, add to our thoughts and may add other things, because football has specific features, although I want to tell you that this study is extremely busy, very careful, has taken more time than originally agreed, but it says and describes in steps that can be implemented by both FIFA and UEFA and then, we are doing our debt and, if need be, I do not discuss it, we are in favour of its faithful implementation, I am sure that we are talking about a football environment very much different from what we have been living in the previous period. I would therefore assume that you - or even I would expect you to welcome - the development of absolute harmonisation on the part of the state with what the holistic study says - and I would expect you to welcome the possibility of a more open debate among the members of the Committee on Morphic Affairs on the good of Greek football. With regard to vaccines, Mr Booba, you said first of all 'compulsory vaccination on the stadiums'. I didn't say that. I only told you that it opens up a debate after today's decision of infectious agents to accept our proposal to set up a group, as was done on other issues, where it will work to update the proposal of the protocol tabled by Super League 1 a few months ago, that is to say, to see the new data on how this can be implemented. And be careful, there had been an excellent job from the point of view of Super League 1. So they should be brought into line with the new data that have been created in our country, in Europe and go further. However, I would remind you that there is a formal proposal from the Super League 1, it is the organizational authority that says: "You know, we want vaccinated and more if possible within our fields". This proposal doesn't fall down. We hear her very interestingly. After all, the debate on opportunities, on advantages, had been opened to encourage the world to be vaccinated and then to have more freedoms, amenities, possibilities, as of course on the ground. The proposal, however, has begun, has come to the public debate by the organising authority, which we listen to with interest. However, there will be a debate in the working party to be set up. And the last thing that Mr Boukokouros and another fellow Member have asked for is that 5% are not the small shareholders of a region who decide to buy a stock to support their team. 5% is an extremely large sum, now that the teams of the new Super League 2 will have a share capital of 350,000. So it's not any amount. So he rightly has to make a statement from where you were and prove that this money came from legal actions. We do not change that, and I want to be clear about what has been said by my dear colleague, Mr Bukokouros. I conclude with a request to all political forces in our country, saying that the government is making a great effort to the three major wounds of sport, not only within our country, but internationally. It's violence, doping and manipulation. You may disagree, you may want everything to be done faster, but in fact you cannot accept, do not respect, do not admit that all three key issues are confronted. We don't sit with crossed hands. We're not scared. We haven't been hidden. We have not avoided responsibility on the issues of violence, on the peculiarity and on the subject of all the previous bills, on the subject of the clubs. On doping issues, we've told you the way. Do you want us to be done faster? I would also like to see the quarantine and the problems facing the entire public sector. I would very much like us to be the first ones. We are, however, on a very good path and we are pleased that we are at least collecting this from the relevant WADA bodies. In the matter of manipulation at least there you admit that from nowhere, from the absolute zero, from the archiving mechanism of incidents of racing manipulation, we have arrived to have a mechanism that will be tested, tested and judged, but there is nothing more powerful than the Macoline Convention, which we have ratified and the product of the PPC. If we need to do something else, and if you have a proposal, we say that we are determined to accept it and incorporate it either into ESDP, or in any other way we can deal with these incidents. You said something about the second team. I listened very carefully to what you said about the role that the second team might have. We can hear it. However, the first concerns him - and let me know - the organizers, Liga 1, Liga 2, but also the team owners who decide to have a second team, either in the Super League 2, the new one, or in the 3rd Amateur Category. They have anguish themselves, for they would not want their group to be involved in anything, for in fact this is being transferred to the large group, to the mother. However, I am telling you that we have the mechanism now. That's why I was first referring to PPC and then went to this issue. We have the mechanism, too. But if we have issues that will involve the public debate, we are here to deal with them. However, such issues had been heard in Italy, in another country that operated this second group model, they have not been recorded. But if anything happens, here we are. The space of football and sport in general is a lively and constantly evolving space. That's why they need quick reflexes, quick balls and, of course, strong diversions. Thank you very much, and I hope we will agree on most, if not all, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sports: "Reforming the institutional framework of the Committee on Professional Sports, provisions on harmonisation with a holistic study by FIFA - UEFA on football and the Greek Football Federation, restructuring of professional categories of football, operating reinforcement of the National Anti-Doping Agency, reforming the institutional framework of coach sports and other amendments to sport legislation". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendment and the whole text, and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of fifty-eight articles, of an amendment, of the farewell article, and of the entire bill. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendment, the hotel article and the entire bill. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u154	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u155	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u156	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Reforming an institutional framework of the Committee on Professional Sports, harmonisation provisions with a holistic study FIFA - UEFA for football and Greek Football Federation, restructuring of professional categories of football, operating support of a National Anti-Doping Agency, reforming an institutional framework for coaches and other amendments to sport legislation’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u158	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-17-S1-commons.u159	With the consent of the House at 18.40 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 18 June 2021 and 9.00 p.m. on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
