ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. Good week and a good month. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the agenda, we will take the oath of my colleague Mrs Antonios (Tonias) Antonios, who replaces the Gennamata Fofi, who died. Mrs Antony Antony is invited to come and give the nominated by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House an oath before the representative of the Church. [[Members of Parliament, Mr Antony (Tonia) Antony, come to this point and give the following oath:]] "I swear in the name of the Holy and Omousiasias and Indivisible Trinity to be loyal to my homeland and democratic city, to obey the Constitution and the laws and to fulfill conscientiously my duties."
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u2	We hope you will follow, dear Antonia, the creative and successful course of your predecessor President and our respecter of unspoiled Lighten Gentiles.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u3	That's worthy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u4	Madam Colleague, welcome. I wish you from the heart good power in your work.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u6	I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by the Secretary of Parliament Mr Rallia Christidou, Deputy of SYRIZA B3 South Athens, the following:]] A) REFERENCE OF REFERENCES [[To put the mail on the reports]] (b) SUPPORT REQUIREMENTS TO VERIFICATIONS
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Social and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that the topical and urgent questions to be discussed are as follows: Questions Nos 98-22-10-2021, 102-25-10-2021 and 104/25-10-2021 will be answered by the Minister of Health, Mr Athanasios Ploris. The question under number 100/25-10-2021, which will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Spyridon-Panagiotis Lebanon. Under number 94/20-10-2021 a timely question addressed to the same Minister will not be answered because of lack of competence. The question under number 108/25-10-2021, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Evangelos Syrigos. And the Question No 110/25-10-2021, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Mr Athanasios Davakis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. It will not be discussed, after consultation, by Question No 96/22-10-2021, by Mr Haralambos Mamoulakis, Member of the SYRIZA Parliament - Progressive Alliance to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Who is the planning of the Ministry of Energy for the Urban Development of Heraklion'? Nor will the following topical questions be discussed: The question by number 101/25-10-2021 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Ioannis Delis, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Concentrations in secondary education in the Western sector of Athens". Question No 93/19-10-2021 by Mr Aggeliki Adamopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "Drakopoulou Estate: a visible and immediate threat to further environmental degradation". The Question No 106/25-10-2021, by MP B2' Western Athens Department of Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Panagiotis Kourublis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The government of many reasons contributes to an ongoing environmental and social crime." The question by number 97/22-10-2021 of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "The 70% of the municipal districts of Heraklion, which were declared in an emergency, due to the earthquake of September 27, are outside housing assistance". The Question No 109/25-10-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "Aid measures for firms and workers in earthquake areas and the introduction of a special payment due to emergencies". Under number 107/25-10-2021, a topical question by MP B3' South Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Mousala, Minister for the Interior, on the subject: "Immediately the need for anti-military works for the recovery of the waters of Kifissos and Ilissos rivers". The Question No 103/25-10-2021 by F' Vice-President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the subject: "Restoration of the damage caused by “Janus” to Karditsa and the flooding protection of the region". Finally, the 111/25-10-2021 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the subject: "To create a seismicplier service in the region of Heraklion". So we will begin with the fourth question under number 102-25-10-2021 of the F Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The explosive situation that has been formed in the hospital "Metaxas", especially in the surgical field, due to the severance and underfunding of the hospital". Mr. Lambroulis' timely question will be answered by the Minister of Health, Mr. Athanasios Plearis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Madam President. At the "Metaxas" Oncology Hospital, the tragic deficiencies in all the specialties of doctors, different specialists, but also the unacceptable low funding, put at great risk elementary functions of the hospital. For example - and the question, of course - and we are proposing - why this was the direction, if you like, and the demand of the workers in the recent tour we have made in the hospital - to highlight, through the question, all the problems which do not fit in with the time of a timely question - three specific issues. The first concerns the issues of the hospital's surgical rooms, where from six available rooms in the hospital, in the last three to three, because of a lack of anaesthetics, resulting in the tragic contraction, as you can see, of the operation of the surgical sector and thus the reduction in the number of surgery. Of course, the problem has become more acute with the recent retirement of five anaesthetics, who have already mentioned it, and we have it in the question - have fallen out of retirement because of the regularity of the 2nd Health Region - respectively the Government - to constantly move the anaesthetics to Aegean islands to meet the needs of the health units there. Right now, another anesthesiologist in Lemnos is on the move. So, after this development, the hospital counts six fewer qualified doctors, anestheticists. Of course, the only addition that has been made is an adjunctive doctor, posted and herself by another hospital. At the same time, due to the lack of anaesthetics, problems have arisen in the "medical hospital" of an anticancer hospital - the "Metaxas" in this case - which until recently operated four days a week and now operates one day a week. So you understand the urgency of resolving this issue too, because we are talking about sick cancer patients who are trying to ease their suffering. The second relates to the intensive care unit with six beds and within the pandemic five beds were added, but it does not strengthen with the staff, medical and nursing. They serve ten doctors instead of fifteen who are necessary, and nurses are twenty-three and with new beds - that is, eleven, now, beds - and according to international standards and as international guidelines define the issues of the presence of nurses per IF bed, should be four. Now, that is, it's twenty-three, and it should be forty-four. Of course, the area chosen and extended, if you wish, the addition of new beds is inappropriate - the doctors, nurses, personnel of the unit there - and therefore, on the one hand, the stringing of patients - and, on the other hand, the unacceptable situation experienced by the workers themselves - nurses and doctors - in order to cope with the needs of these sick people, due to the tightness of the area. There's no way a nurse can get in there doing his job, offering services to an intubated person - I'm pointing it out - patient. Thirdly, there are two pharmacists in the pharmacy. One pharmacist deals with the manufacture, if you like, and the administration of chemo therapy to the clinic and the other deals with the administration of medicines for other diseases, for the other patients in hospital. So one of these activities is missing for some reason, some of them should be suspended. Therefore, the questions to the Minister are as follows: What measures will the Ministry take to stop, firstly, the movement of anesthetics and other doctors at every point on the ground and when will the huge gaps with the necessary permanent medical staff be covered so that, of course, the surgery can also function? When will the recruitment of permanent staff be carried out at the intensive care unit, but also at the pharmacy - pharmaceuticals - to ensure the safe operation of these departments?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u10	Parliamentarian, first of all, with regard to the ITH beds you say, obviously to become the five hundred fifty ITH beds, which existed in 2019, a thousand three hundred ITH beds, all the spaces that existed to deal with the exceptional pandemic conditions were used. We cannot, if anything, be accused of having more than doubled the IF beds that exist at the moment, even for the simple incidents - not the COVID incidents - we have more IF beds than the ones that were in total in 2019. About the hospital "Metaxas", already in 2020, there have been positions of curators of second grades of radiation, obstetrics, gynaecology, pathology, anatomic surgery, medical biopathology, medical haematology, two myths of myths of anesthesiology and cardiology, which have been covered. That's what we have now. For the problems which you say exist already in the last notice - positions were declared in September - a position of director of radiation, a position of curator a, two anesthetic positions and two ORL positions. The procedure for submitting the documents was completed on 7-10-2021 and, therefore, we are in the process to complete the recruitment of permanent posts by their evaluation. The procedure for the submission of supporting documents was completed on 7 October. Throughout this period, Parliament, within these two and a half years there have been over two thousand permanent doctors' posts throughout the health system, two thousand subsidiary posts and more posts have been called out than in the past five years. However, there are constantly new notices, with the one I told you in September, and two next ones, which come for nursing and other staff. As a reference is now being made to suspensions, I will say: in the suspensions at the moment there have been the following requests that have been met: general duties there have been two applications, both of which have been met. Transport, ambulances were two cases of suspensions, one was satisfied. Health Unit Command: There was a suspension and he was completely satisfied. Nursing: There were four suspensions, the two were satisfied. The rest of the staff - not to say it - who are economical, accounting, manufacturers, paramedics and cooks have been satisfied as a whole. At the same time, it is expected to be adopted on the subject of the pharmacy you said - it has already been sent to the Ministry - a position of an assistant pharmacy with a duration of twenty-four months. As far as the anaesthetics are concerned - I will reply more specifically to dentistry - there is indeed an overall problem of anesthetics, as there is in this hospital. They must be satisfied - the reference you make - hospitals, which exist - you have been asking questions from time to time, and you, I mean, as a party and other fellow Members - because the 2nd RCF also covers all the islands. So from the moment that there is a problem of anesthetics, especially to cover the well-known and barren areas in you, they must also be covered from other points, so that all hospitals can function properly. In my dentistry, I will tell you exactly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you have made a more general reference to the positions planned for this hospital. Here there are certain numbers or, even, approximate numbers. We will not now sit down and stand up for the number of these doctors. We say: How many anesthetics do they need? So many. How many of them to hire? How many nurses do ICU need to meet needs so that they can cope with the acute needs and the pandemic, but what happens in an intensive care facility? Third, drugstore. You talked about an assistant pharmacist. Pharmaceutical agent is needed, because the pharmacist is the person responsible for dissolving chemotherapeutic medicinal products. It is an oncology hospital and the presence of the pharmacist is required almost all day, if anything, to prepare chemotherapeutic medicinal products. On the other hand, of course, the second medicine now in existence is needed for the distribution, distribution, if you like, of the other medicines for patients in the hospital. Now, on the occasion of the "Metaxas" Hospital, but also of all hospitals, primary health care - health centres, namely - in general public health, the government is often exposed to the people and has serious responsibilities. The pandemic period, with the tragic results for the people, has highlighted exactly the serious materials with which the health system is being built for years now and with the responsibility of all the governments, who have largely left the people unprotected, not only in the face of the pandemic, but much more in almost all its other needs in prevention, treatment and rehabilitation services. This is because the direction of measures for the health of the people follows the minimum cost rule for the State and entrepreneurs, while strengthening the individual responsibility of workers, public families for their health. This is exactly the direction that shapes today's even bigger mess of the public health sector, such as the Metaxas Hospital, while at the same time strengthening the big business sector in health. It is therefore stated that in the context of the development of the capitalist economy, the universal development of a state and free health system, developed at all its levels, which will provide its services, making the most of the achievements of science, technology, a system that will be staffed with all the necessary permanent staff, such a system is incompatible and confronted with popular needs for prevention, treatment and rehabilitation. In other words, it is becoming increasingly difficult for the people to exploit such a state-of-the-art health system, since its development is part of the rules of competition and the market, for which people's needs are costs. This is precisely the reason, for example, for you, in 2021, like previous governments, hypocritically, in order to hide the great time responsibilities and what are you doing? You find that the health system does not have a sufficient number of doctors, in this case anestheticists and related other specialities, to serve, for example, the ICUs or the surgery in the public hospital. And what are you doing? In order to cover the newspapers of a public hospital, doctors need to migrate from a prefecture to a county, leaving hospitals of origin uncovered, such as the "Metaxas" Hospital or removed by doctors from the same detached primary health care I am peaceful along the way. We are not going to open up the issue of primary school now. In Paros the previous days, due to a COVID disease where several people from the health center were found positively, health care workers, who offer their services to the primary health care on the island, were removed from the service for health reasons, and as a result the health centre, the health unit, primary health care, only operates for emergency services. For other services which have competence to provide - from prescribing to years of patient monitoring, patient assessment and so on - it has been stopped. And here is a matter, Minister, for you to see it and solve it immediately. So, with the on-calls or the doctors are removed from primary health care, which is already dispersed and disintegrated, and at the same time in the pandemic there were serious consequences - and this was mentioned at the 'Metaxa' Hospital - for the care of the cancer patients, after their treatment has been disrupted, their diagnosis has been delayed, even their vaccination or access to medicines has been restricted. You therefore have, as a government - like the previous ones - a huge responsibility which you, as a government, have left the public health units without personnel, and the results are tragic about the need to treat the people and the examples - you know, we all know - thousands of all of them. Therefore, defending the health of the people required and demanding that public hospitals and health centres be filled with health and not half-empty, such as the ‘Metaxas’ Hospital. Instead, you have made sure that years of patients cannot pass the previous period of pandemic, but it also seems now with the fourth wave, or outside the hospital. Workers, therefore, and popular strata, cannot expect anything positive as long as your government's policy following previous governments on health is based on costs, of course, of growth that aims to serve the profitability of business groups. Thus, not only is the recovery of losses due to the prevention, treatment and rehabilitation of the people's health, but the permanentisation of the present disastrous situation. Here, then, is why it is necessary for workers to match their demands with modern needs, to strengthen popular conflict and struggle, which will shape the social and political conditions for another path of development of production and the economy with labour power, at the heart of which is to satisfy the widened people's needs to prevent, cure and restore health. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u13	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u14	Mr Lambroulis, this criticism you have made, we could discuss it if these positions were empty and these were not declared. Within these three years we have 12 thousand subsidiary people working - you may say 'all to be permanent', but they are still in positions and working - we have more than two thousand recruits of permanent doctors and we have more than two thousand recruits of subsidiary doctors.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u15	Hospitals don't have medical and nursing staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u16	Wait. You come and say the cost and the profit.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u17	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u18	I tell you any position that is clear - listen, Mr Lambroulis - is being proclaimed. It is therefore not a matter for a government to come and say: 'I do not want to cover the positions'. And it puts subsidiary and puts people in the private sector as well, and it also comes to an amendment tomorrow, which enables them to do on-call to fill the gaps. But what's going on? There are two realities that you cannot ignore. The first reality: Evidently, because of the pandemic the National Health System needed much more people than it would have had in normality. What did the government do about it? Two thousand assistants, two thousand doctors, two thousand permanent doctors and, furthermore, four thousand nurses, who are also permanently not only for the pandemic, nine hundred and another ten are being awarded. Similarly, there is a second part. It doesn't mean that doctors exist in total to have the needs, and that's why there's a problem throughout the territory in specific categories, such as pneumonologists and anesthetists. What are we doing in this area? As the posts are not covered, despite the notices, especially in barren areas, we are bringing provisions to stimulate recruitment in order for someone to go. At the same time, we are bringing provisions so that individuals can work in the National Health System by providing a flat-rate service for the period of this quarter - four months that is necessary. We give the opportunity to anestheticists and pulmonaries in the public sector above the newspaper wall to be able to pay and payments are made on privileged terms for all these categories. Yes, Mr. Lambroulis, when there are problems in regional hospitals, such as hospitals you have made - Mrs. Konnakkas has asked me a question about the Ikaria Hospital - since there are gaps and have not been covered with permanent posts, will we not have to take people from all over the other Ministry to be able to operate? And this is done in a way that the functions of hospitals as little as possible are disrupted, but doctors are not inexhaustible and needs are too many. So, combined with incentives, recruitment and the use of doctors in the private sector - private doctors - we are trying to cover the problem now, which is also the outbreak of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Minister. Here is the sixth question, under number 98/22-10-2021, from the second question of the SYRIZA MP Rodopi - the Progressive Alliance Mr.Dimitrios Charitou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Recruitment of doctors in order not to suspend the operation of the unique non - COVID ITH in Eastern Macedonia - Thrace, the Sisminogyl hospital of Komotini". The question will also be answered by the Minister for Health, Mr Ploris. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister. Thrace and Rhodope are at the peak of the pandemic wave, with huge spread of the virus in the population and many outbreaks of contamination, covered over 95% of the ICUs, with only 53% of the vaccination coverage and the most serious, Minister, with the health workers struggling. The non-COVID unit at the Komotini Hospital, which serves the region as a whole, now operates marginally when one of the four intensifiers, the two are except as inconsistent, while the integration of an adjunct doctor who yesterday - just yesterday - received a relevant specialty, as is the integration of a private doctor, who is doubtful of his stay in the next period in the ERC does not create any optimism that this critical unit for the whole region will be able to respond to the increased health needs. These are balls, Minister. With the reopening of the COVID Unit at the Komotini Hospital, the problem with the health workers has become even more acute, at the same time that very important hospital clinics, such as urethological are essentially closed and other functions marginally, such as ophthalmics, with only one specialist doctor, in a hospital, Minister, who, due to the population composition of the area, resorts to people for health needs. Instead of strengthening the hospital by recruitment to permanent or subsidiary staff and having all the time at your disposal, you did not do so. On the contrary, Minister, I have been informed that you are attempting to fill gaps with the movement of health personnel by suspending the operation of regional medical offices in the region. Do you understand what you're going to do? Leave the residents of tens of settlements of Rhodope with no health and pharmaceutical coverage! No other health needs, no other diseases? You turned the hospital into a monothematical, only for COVID. Hundreds of tests, interventions are switched backwards, with consequences for the patient's health. You are effectively extinguished in the private health sector and all this without being studied, targeted measures to address the low vaccination coverage in a particular, population composition, region. So I ask you, Minister, what specific measures will you take to meet the needs of medical and nursing staff at the Komotini hospital for the effective functioning of the CIVID unit and of other critical clinics, such as urea and ophthalmological, and what additional measures will you take to increase the vaccination coverage in the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u21	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u22	Mr Papoutsis, in this particular hospital, which you know, and because of local interest, there are five beds of ICU, one of which is suspected cases and serves four doctors, i.e. cover. There were three intensifiers and an adjunct. Of these three, the two have been suspended. Covering this is done in the following ways: First of all, the two non-vaccinated are fully covered by the two experts and because of the measure that has been suspended. In fact, one of the two who does services has returned from a long-standing sick leave, while another doctor has also been found with the quarterly contracts that have the possibility of expanding from the 4th RCD and is covered by two more surgeons. Therefore, at the moment the operation of the ICM has not been disturbed despite the suspensions that exist, because the gaps in these gaps have been covered. Overall, as you now mention to fill the gaps of this hospital, you know that already with the notices that have been completed - not only were they called - the cover for Surgery two positions of curator a, two positions of curator b, Neurology a position of curator b, a pediatrician a position of curator b and Psychiatry, which is the only one that came out of a position, but has become fertile. Also, the position of Nephrology specialty was barred, and the intake process was completed to the degree of caretaker (b) of the anesthesiologist. Therefore, with the data available, we are trying to fill the gaps with permanent positions. Unfortunately, it is the area in question and one of the areas that takes on a number of atrocities. We are trying to cover these positions, even temporarily, with the quarterly contracts which are in operation and the positions of those who have been suspended. I wish these people could be vaccinated or with the completion of the pandemic they could return to their places. Until then, there will be no problem in the hospital. There'll be the staff needed. It will work and the hospital will normally operate in an area that, as you say, can be pressed even more, precisely because of the low vaccination coverage, compared to the average of our country, which is in a higher number. From there on, for the department you're talking about with regional medical services, I'm going to answer to my denology as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u24	Minister, I have listened very carefully. You're probably not worried about the situation there. It seems that you are not even more concerned about the horror of the pandemic, when we have the sad record of a thousand deaths in a month, full of the ICUs, with patients expanding out of intensive units, and of course, you understand that we are in a really difficult situation, you do not have a plan for emergency measures, for an emergency plan, to be able to involve primary health care, private hospitals, military hospitals - which are a lot in northern Greece - and, of course, to strengthen the health system with health personnel. I gave you very specific questions, Minister, about the needs that exist there in the hospital. I'm really sorry, I'm sorry, because four days ago, Minister, at the Komotini Hospital was the Deputy Minister, Mr. Gaga, and he heard all this and more than I told you about the needs of the hospital. I ask you: didn't he let you know? Didn't you talk to her to discuss today? Isn't that true all the evidence I've put to you? Can the non-COVID Clinic for the entire region really meet the needs of care, with the information I have told you, when it is a surgeon who is now hired and a private doctor who will not be likely tomorrow in the ESS? How will it actually work for the needs of the whole region? Isn't it true that Urology is closed? It's closed! He doesn't accept, Minister. Ophthalmology with a specialist doctor can work? How do you know? More than two hundred fifty are the incidents - planned interventions, which are transferred to the future. Two of them become surgery a week! How do those who listen to us feel when they need to - understand - some time to meet needs? Where do you push them? To go to private medicine? I told you about the vaccination cover. I understand that obviously, that is the reality. You don't like it? But don't pry her, don't try and make her look good. It is difficult, it is experienced by local society, and it is experienced by the health staff who - I understand - need support, support. He's on the line, he can't take it anymore. I tell you why it is not a solution to move, to recycle staff, by taking it from regional, rural doctors to other places, to recycle a health staff into a public health deficit. Instead of solving, it creates additional problems in the region as a whole. I ask you, Minister, to withdraw this decision. It will have an overall impact on citizens, health and medical care. I say this because, Minister, it is necessary to support the public health system, particularly there in the region, which the world is seeking to meet its needs, and you do not have your mind to support it. I will tell you one thing and I shall conclude, Madam President. Inside the pandemic, in the new Komotini hospital you changed his status, Minister. Under public law you converted the new Komotini Hospital "Stavros Niarchos" into private law, while the contract was signed by the previous government. So you are not in the mood to support. Work contracts for workers either in keeping, feeding or cleaning, remove them there in the hospital and lead to economic bleeding contractors for the hospital. So I ask you, and I ask you to support the hospital in this sensitive area, to be seriously behind the problems in order to deal with them, because the region needs it, the people who resort to the public health system need it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u26	First of all, any movements made by regional hospitals, to which you refer, will in no case create malfunctions and the functioning of the regional hospitals that exist. However, it must be strengthened, especially in the fact that this hospital and all the hospitals in the region are on duty, because, on the one hand, you say not to become monothematics, to operate all the actions, but on the other hand they must and must be strengthened. I told you that the part of the suspensions was completely covered, as has been announced, and all positions, some of which have been declared barren. There will also be further support with the incentives, which we give, and above all with the presence of the private sector - even temporarily - in the coverage of newspapers. But here you have to decide what you want at some point, because the government has been very critical of the whole time that individuals have not participated in the system - that is what is said - and now suddenly, since we have come to an agreement in northern Greece too, we put two hundred COVID beds in the private sector - not non - COVID incidents - and, respectively, in Thessaly we take and put fifty COVID beds and so many other non - COVID incidents, you are now coming and saying that we are going to do deal with private clinics. Do you want private clinics to take COVID incidents so that the national health system can also function? For the whole of the previous period, the criticism was that 'you only give the clear facts to private clinics and the entire public comes to COVID'. Now that we are giving COVID incidents to the private sector and we are going to make a balance, so that the system is not pressed, I have not heard what SYRIZA's clear position is. To tell us in a clear way 'we don't want private people to take incidents at all'. Accordingly, how will the national health system be strengthened at this stage? It is supported by the recruitment, by the subsidiary and yes, by the assistants who enter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u27	Do it, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u28	I told you your recruitments! The positions covered have been covered. The private doctor who came to cover your gaps didn't come right now and covered the gap? The surgeon, who came back from another D.N.A., didn't come to fill a gap in the area? Does this indicate that there's no interest in the hospital when we collect doctors from everywhere in order to strengthen it? Overall, in northern Greece, which needed, yes, we go to private beds and mainly to COVID beds, so that the national health system can have the other incidents. And private sector meths are now in total under the supervision of the EMCDDA and wherever we need incidents - obviously not - COVID, because there cannot be common incidents in the same bed - we are going and covering them. We're in a fight, we're in the fourth wave, we've more than doubled the beds, we've got staff. Where appropriate, very organised and very coordinated private individuals are also entering the time at which there is absolutely no surprise. At the same time, I say, Mr President, that after the last motives we have given, if we do not have the response we want, we will have to go to other actions. We will also oblige people to enter the system if the private sector fails to respond to the latest incentives we have put into it. But we are at the moment in a balance, where we are getting services and strengthening the system. In fact, there are pathogens, no one will tell you that things you say do not apply, but, respectively, we are also at the top of a pandemic management process and the government's choice is that the system should be able to operate both to deal with the pandemic, but not to become a one-thematic one, as was required in the first phase. Because now, once the vaccine is available, we cannot come to say that all the other functions will be stopped. Combiningly, therefore, strengthening the system, seeking services from the private sector to cover the gaps, new positions which are constantly being called for and even greater vaccination - because all the evidence shows that hospitalisation and, above all, serious hospitalisations, are mainly directed at our people who are not vaccinated - all these things together are working properly, operating in a specific strategy and we are trying to have a result, when the opposition has not heard anything specific. Are you suggesting - because you said measures - that your area should enter Lock Down? Let's go out and say that 'we want the areas to get into Lockdown'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u29	Did we say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u30	So on the one hand you come and say 'take measures', on the other hand, but on the other hand, I do not hear what measures you say we take.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u31	To hire staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u32	For the staff, we keep getting notices and hiring. On the one hand, we are being prosecuted by SYRIZA's newspapers that we do not need to expand compulsion, because we do not want to put obligation in other areas and, on the other hand, to come to a political conflict and, on the other hand, they are with the health workers who come and say that the compulsoryity should be lifted. You must finally decide what you want to do! The Government has a specific plan, which implements and its plan is aimed at the patient having the service either at a COVID unit or at a non-COVID unit. And there, then, we're fighting a very big battle.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Minister. The Minister of Health Mr.Ploris will also reply to the ninth under number 104/25-10-2021, a topical question for the second cycle of the SYRIZA MP - the Progressive Alliance Mr.Nikolaos Igoumenides, to the Minister of Health, on “Actions to degrade functions of the Venizelos Hospital”. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, it is almost two years since the Coronovirus entered our daily lives, and I think that the first conclusion for the Greek people since this two-year period is the deafening - I would say - in the absence of the private sector from dealing with the pandemic, which highlights even more emphatically and the contribution of the public health system to the health shielding of society. I do not think it is too much to say that the public health system has been and is the shield for protecting society from the coronary. In relation to the previous debate I have seen, it is clear that much more, when the knot reaches the comb, it is not enough in this sense that what your Government has not done is the planned, organised, orderly private sector participation in the treatment of pandemic and the announcement clearly of the rules with which private sectors are involved. In any case, in order to come back again, I do not think it is by chance that the requirement of society to strengthen public health in any form, in any way, support for staff, support for infrastructure, support for existing staff and so on. I do not want us to catch up and discuss the overall situation in Greece. My question is referred to a hospital in Heraklion Prefecture, but a Regional Hospital of Crete. First, the Emergency Department in May 2019 was complete, today half the people are serving. In pandemic conditions, reductions in staff and even in TLP? Why? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Secondly, four sections of Coronovirus, CIVID clinic, CIVID ATTH, CIVID TL and vaccination centre were built at the hospital. What kind of staff was hired for these four sections? The question is clear, because it seems that these four sections have worked by reordering existing staff, reducing and compressing the operation of the rest of the hospital, sharing workers in a way that is unrealistic and discriminatory, where hospital staff are asked to exceed themselves for the safe and quality care of the population. It appears during this two-year period that the Ministry throughout the administrative pyramid - from the Ministry to the administration of the hospital - systematically ignores the workers' proposals. The whole situation is confusing with two more issues, the bias on evolution, the choice, the unreasonable evaluation of the staff and the inappropriate shock of the system with the status of inhibition of non-vaccinated. For the whole of Crete we are talking about four hundred and twenty people. Questions to you, Minister, are what actions will you take to fully serve the Hospital Emergency Department, what actions will you take for the full and worthwhile upgrade of the hospital services and what actions will you take for the full staffing of the departments associated with the COVID operation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u36	Mr Papoutsis, this hospital has been selected - and rightly so - because of the need for the pandemic to have a separate line of attendance for examination of patients with a potential COVID disease and to strengthen the hospital's CVC beds. Indeed, seven of the IF beds of this hospital were reinforced. The coverage of these units, which you mentioned, has been done in two ways. First of all, it was done with the staff themselves, which existed, and the departments were redistributed. However, there has also been additional aid respectively. In particular, there was an uptake of twenty-six permanent specialist doctors, twelve subsidiary doctors, and an extension of twenty subsidiary doctors' contracts and an intake of a hundred two nurses, because the extensions of the subsidiary were in order to strengthen the exceptional need. So, in total, it was not just from the current staff and the redistribution made, but also from the recruitments with the numbers I mentioned. In fact, as I have been informed by the departments, it is also about the functioning of these departments. Especially in the TLP track, which includes ten medical posts, two uncovered positions were left at this point in time, because one doctor serves as a deputy commander in PAGNE and one doctor resigned. At the moment, all the other doctors, I told you, are also serving. So, as far as the specific services that you say, apart from the units that have been done, IM beds have also been strengthened, but they have also been reinforced by a proper distribution of CIVID incidents, so that they do not coexist with CIVID and non-COVID incidents. There has been the redistribution of existing staff, but also support from the staff I have mentioned. From there on, the reference I have from the administration, particularly to the part of your question - which I was interested in - on the Scientific Council is that all the decisions are in the full and smooth cooperation that exists with the Scientific Council and the administration of the hospital has never circumvented what you say, namely the positions and views of the Scientific Council. So there is a full management in a confessed very good hospital. Fortunately, you are in an area that we hope - and that is something that still shows, because of tourism, there has been a great movement to vacate the population - that the pressure on the system is not at least greater than what is happening in the areas of your colleague I have already responded to, namely in the areas of Northern Greece. Therefore, this hospital has carried out all the necessary actions. It has the staff, it normally works, it has increased the ICU beds, and there is also cooperation with the Scientific Council in order to make decisions in the interests of the proper functioning of the hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u38	Minister, I shall refer to specific points. I've got here all the page on the hospital's COP personnel's movements. I'm not going to talk about everything. I will report to you an indicative decision dated 17/8/2021 - which I will table in the Minutes - and on the movement of doctors to a health centre in the Venizelos TEP. This is August 17, 2021 and it is the Ministry's Secretary-General's decision. One of the prisoners! You can understand, I imagine, that this decision was made under pressure from the need for staff in the CPIs, beyond that I disagree with the logic of the infectious coverage of the gaps. When you're empty, you don't get a doctor from the primary school, which faces 80% of patients with a coronary. You're taking another staff. Apart from that, my question is very simple. The doctor who, by decision of your Ministry, your Secretary-General, moved to TLP, is currently serving in the TLP? Check it out! Let's go down. You're talking about a situation. I have here a report for sixty-three doctors at the Venizelou. Sixty-three hospital doctors are talking about how unattractive and discriminatory workers in the other departments and at the expense of the operation of the other departments. How do you deal with this report? And this will be submitted to the Minutes. In this report, which is dated 17 September, the Scientific Council takes a position and validates everything the doctors ask for. How do you deal with them? Let's go down below, because, as I told you, it's a total attitude of the Ministry to staff. On 6-7-2018, the administration at the time of the hospital invites - I will submit the corresponding invitation - to cover a place at the Venizelos Nursing School, for which an invitation was made on 27-3-2019 - from 6-7-2018 to 27-3-2019! - the decision reached on 27-3-2019. Having finished all the essentials and formalities of the process before, the decision came to the Ministry to sign, so that the particular person selected would go to that post. Why hasn't he signed yet? I'm going to put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. The fourth issue is the suspension and suspension regime. Look, sir, you're Minister! You are not entitled as Minister, in my opinion, to superficially address the situation. The superficial treatment of the reality experienced by all Greeks leads to superficial - skin solutions, thus worsening this everyday life. And my questions in relation to parole are very clear. Do you really think that the pandemic in Northern Greece is escaping the number of uninvasive personnel of the ESS? Do you really think that for the failure of the "Liberty Operation" and the failure to control the pandemic it is the number of uninvasives of the ESS? Do you really think that this logic does not create huge and unnecessary shocks in the public health system in all hospitals, in all public structures? In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to say: I think that your attitude toward workers, which is the attitude of indifference to fair demands, indifference to working conditions and indifference to merit, is politically consistent with your attitude as a whole to the public health system, as your programme says, you are in favour of increasing the vital area of the private sector. However, because this attitude and that attitude sends you a message, which is why I would like - and I am closing with that, Madam President - our question and intervention today is to send a message to those who are following us. As far as the administrative pyramid is concerned, from the Minister of Health to the administration of the hospital and the hospital, no one is above the law, no one is uncontrolled and no one will remain unpunished if it violates the law. And the second clear message to the hospital workers, but also a whole public health system, is that no one is alone, no one will leave themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u40	Colleague, the more general problem you have in the opposition is that you have not decided what you want to say. Each time you say one and say the other. For example, as far as compulsoryity is concerned, on the one hand yesterday, the Minister of Health asks the Minister of Health that he is afraid to put obligation on other charges, such as priests and police officers, because he does not want to collide on the other you are criticizing me, because we maintain the rule of compulsoryity. Pick! This is where the Chief of Officer Response had said that it is self-evident that there should be minimum, that is, the obligability of nurses and doctors. The government has chosen the most minimal point that exists, which is the medical staff, because it treats people, and those in vulnerable groups, respectively. He did not say in general that because these people have not been vaccinated, there is an increase in pandemic. An increase in pandemic exists, unfortunately, where there is little vaccination coverage. The "Freedom" operation has given all Greek citizens timely vaccines. Currently more than 72% of the adult population has been vaccinated with either dose and 70% with both doses. We are talking about 63% of the general population. But there are our fellow citizens who are not vaccinated, and we are making a whole effort with mobile units, with campaigns, with messages, with continuous information, and you are still not there. I beg your pardon, Mr President, but the most vulgar one that took place during the weekend and I will say it is that the Chief of Police Vice-Population has offended thirty-three scientists, because this committee of thirty-three people who, as it is described as a journalist who supports you, are scientifically discredited and are persons associated with medicine - these are the ones who write a journalist who supports you - for a year and a half, it provides its services unwindledly to deal with pandemics. And tomorrow, I'll meet them to tell them that the Chief of Police doesn't think they're mutually acceptable. To tell us this: Of the thirty-three, what do you think is a person, as Mr Vaxebanes says here, is an institution - a government subordinate to the people concerned and the people concerned are of scientific decency? They are thirty-three people who are not paid, and every week we ask them for their advice, they inform us and on the basis of these advice we are going. And he's coming in with the Chief of Officer's Reconciliation, and he's targeting thirty-three people. These are not commonly accepted! We went to the offices of New Democracy and were looking for an infectious one! Shame on you! We are talking about thirty three people who are not paid and who every day give a fight, we consult them every day, we call them, they meet, we hear their concerns and make decisions. The decisions are taken by the state and the Minister for Health is not behind any body. But this instrument is our firm link. He's been keeping us up every day. You had taken out your newspapers before and said 'They will abolish the committee because they do not like it'. The committee has never been abolished. And so Mr. Tsipras comes along and says that these people are not mutually acceptable, they are targeted into society and the SYRIZA newspapers come out and the journalists are targeting them even more. Let's leave the scientists out of this!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u41	Do not hide behind the committee, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u42	Our confrontation is political. Judg the Minister of Health as strict as you want. Judging the Minister of Health. Leave the scientists alone! These people come to help without any benefit and you target them. Our confrontation stays political. Leave science out! Leave the scientists and stop your cheap and inexpensive folk policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u43	Don't hide behind the committee! It's a difficult situation! Take measures!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u45	Madam President, I would like ten seconds to say something to the Minister, but, of course, the Minister is up and gone!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u46	Mr Colleague, you know that there is no debate in the timely questions. You know that thing very well. The procedure is known. We can't break her. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u47	I would just like ten seconds, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u48	Please! There is no possibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u49	The New Democracy MPs have all been vaccinated? That's the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Comrade, please don't embarrass me. I gave you all the time you wanted to talk. Please. Thank you. We will now discuss the third with number 108/25-10-2021 appropriate question from the first question by the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Taking back to the problems and injustices that have arisen with the decisions of Kerameos - Mitsotakis in the process of introducing into higher education". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Evangelos Syrigos. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I would like to remind you first of all that we have an issue with the students from the earthquake areas and because yesterday at the visit of the President of the Republic, Mrs Sakellariou, the issue of their admission to higher education institutions with arrangements that have been made and in similar cases, I would like if you had something specific to tell us about this very serious matter, in order to ensure that students feel safe and do not seek to enter or enter into a difficult educational process. The question concerns the evaluation and the results of the implementation, first and foremost, of the minimum import base and of the system applied to this minimum import base. The figures show that over fifteen thousand students, while having written import points above the base, have not been imported and at the same time too many departments have no imported or have much less than predicted. This conflict is mainly about the possibility that there has not been a second chance with a statement in the chambers that have remained vacant. Of course, there is something very specific that I ask with my question. Mr Gavroglou in another import system had abolished the provision which said that the equals were imported into the department. So Mr Gabroglou abolished it and made a distinction that only one person is imported, the one with a higher degree in this class. This was about a different system. Today, with the system that you are applying, Mr Gavroglou's provision must be abolished and all the equals must be introduced. That is my question, and I would like you to see even now the law of the matter in relation to the introduction of these students and to be corrected. I think time is there. They can be imported. I don't know if they're two hundred or three hundred in number. They are, however, students who have written very well, have a degree at the sum of their input molecules, and they are wronged by a provision of the previous government, which also concerned a different system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good month! Dear Mr Kegeroglu, I begin with the comment you made on earthquake patients. You refer to the earthquake on September 27th. As you know, on 27 September the procedures for admission of students to universities had already been completed. Everything else concerns the examination we are going to take for the time, where all the relevant requests that may be made will be examined. This year, due to the time that has happened, unfortunately, the earthquake, on 27 September, had completed the procedures, so there is no question of changing something for those who have already been to the universities. Now, with regard to the equilibrium you say, I would also like to refer to this, so that I have more time to refer to the EBRD. I would remind you that the relevant law has been amended three times since 2013 and provides that in the event of an equalisation of two or more people, what is happening is that the lesson in which they were in grades, if it is the first lesson or the second lesson, depending on the degree of importance they have in this field and if, after the exhaustion of the above criteria, there are still equals, then all the equals pass. In other words, there is a scale in this regard. We now come to the issue of the minimum import base. What is the minimum import base? The minimum import base is the possibility of dealing with an existing serious social problem. What was that? We have had a process of merit, such as the pan-Hellenic tests, which has had terrible distortions. Where did these distortions end up? They ended up having the largest number of people in Greek universities who never graduate from Greek universities. That alone tells him too much. Not least, we have most students in the European Union proportionally. Why was that thing going on? It happened because the children who went through the university went to grades one, two and three. We had 2020 people who passed with a degree below one. Under one, Mr Kegeroglu, it means that they practically gave three white glues and in the fourth they wrote something up. So this means that these students and students did not have the minimum academic background to be able to attend the university. And that's why they never graduated from the university. In order to address this problem, the minimum import base has been chosen, but in my dentext I shall refer a little more to this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, on the subject of earthquakes, look at the subject of new-year-old students' relocations. Seismic families are no longer able to rely on the extent that they could before their children. So the relocations, if facilitated, can provide a facility for these families. I now come to the question of import. For the sake of this debate, we consider that there is a minimum import base. We are not now discussing its adoption. And now I'm saying it's the 12th base? To be in 12. So the base came in at 12. Are there students who wanted to enter Architecture, they wrote over 12, didn't the same time enter a specific university architect's office? Yeah. So you should see how the basis is applied. They cannot have written above the basis and system of declarations, as was the order of things, to leave out of candidates who have covered this condition. Let's go to the equals. We have equivalents who have written 15, while the base is 12, and you leave them out, why did Mr. Gabroglou in another system have made a specific setup? Is that possible? It's a different system. So you have vacant posts. It shall not be completed in specified sections. There are equals and you tell them, "But there are some students who wrote 1 and 2 in the previous years and that's why you don't come in." But he's written 15! With what logic, what kind of justice do you leave them outside and leave the department without students? There are also schools, of course, because I have taken the floor from two - three cases and one is in a school and part that is empty and another that is highly rated. He wrote 18,5-19 and stayed out, is a high-demand school. But in this case you should not blame these children for the arrangement that was unfair. I therefore consider the basis to be the case. I take the view that there are problems in its implementation, and you see it. We need to make this correction for the equals, so that at least those who have written far above the import base, but there is this cut from the previous system, are entitled to be justified. That is my request, it is specific, and I think it is fair to these children and that it will help to normalise the problems of implementing the minimum import base system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Kegeroglu, there is a problem for the scores when the full number of importers is filled and the last importers are equal to one another. There is no problem at the scores when there are vacant posts. There is a problem when the maximum number of importers is reached, so that's where we're talking about scores. I now come back to the issue of EBRD, because it is extremely serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u58	And it's unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u59	We call them unconstitutional, but we also need the courts to take it out in unconstitutional terms. It's not enough for us to say it. For the system of minimum import bases to say: Previously in order to address this distortion, i.e. that students entered without the necessary academic background, the basis of 10 had been chosen. The basis for the tenth was this: if the committee were to raise matters easily at the university. If he put hard issues, too many people would not be cut off. That is why we have set the minimum import base, which is based on the average of the courses in this field. It is therefore indifferent to us whether it is easy or difficult, because it is always the average. If things are easy, it can go up more than ten. If things are difficult, it could fall under 10. How is the minimum import base fixed? This is a very important element. It is defined as its margin by the universities. My dear colleague, Mr Kegeroglou, mentioned the example of the Architecture of Xanthi. The Architecture of Xanthi is the fact that only ten people were introduced. I think it is a common place, that the school's leaders also realized that they were wrong by putting an extremely high minimum import base. The minimum import base for the linear design was 17.4. When they understood it, they asked to change it, but the deadlines had passed. Now, the problem in the Architecture of Xanthi will be solved this year, and here I come to the measures which, when we find that there are distortions in implementation, are being given corrective changes. We are giving an exception this year, by means of a special provision, under Article 113 of Law 4842, to enable universities to amend this year's minimum import bases - I think that the deadline is now 1 November - for each school to correct these distortions that exist. From there on I will make a broader comment on the minimum import base. My appreciation is that he's here to stay. It is a fair system, which photographs the examinations of this year. Let's give him space and time to breathe, see how it works. We have already avoided the introduction of students on bases 1, 2 and 3. Let's just breathe the system and see if there's any need for any more remedial moves. However, I told you that it was already when we allowed universities to correct very high minimum import bases which they had set. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, too, Minister. And we move to the seventh under number 110/25-10-2021 a topical question from the second question from the MP of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on "Special support measures for earthquake workers, unemployed and businesses". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Tsakloglu. You have the floor, Mr Colleague, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Madam President. The problems of citizens, the problems of society are our first concern, and the government should be the first concern. The earthquake of 27 - but not only, from 4 June until today, we have earthquakes that cause problems - has not only destroyed homes, facilities, shops and buildings, but has kneeled to economic and social life. Yesterday she was in Arkalochori and in the wider region the President of the Republic, Mrs Sakellaropoulou, but unfortunately, there was no one from the government to hear what was said to the President, and that I was curious, because I expected someone to be there, to record at least the problems that people have exposed. One of your problems in relation to your competence and I had tabled the timely question concerns businesses, professionals, workers, not so much because it is not your responsibility for the property restoration, which is another issue of the Infrastructure, but for the loss of income, for the loss of jobs, for the loss of living conditions for the whole world. I have therefore raised five topics: first of all, the implementation of a programme of work subsidies and insurance contributions for the region, which concerns the worker and the professional, the second special purpose subsidy for workers, with the possibility of joining a suspension programme, when the company has stopped, is not working, because of the earthquake, its operation has not been restored and therefore the worker is in a position. Is he gonna get fired? Is dismissal legal? Is he going to enter a suspension programme for a period of time with the payment of special-purpose compensation? The third is a substantial and long-term regulation of all the funds owed to the insurance funds by businesses and professionals. There has been a measure of suspension for six months - it has already moved on to this - but when they arrive in six months and accumulated debts, it will be even more difficult. I therefore think there should be a long-term regulation. Of course, if there were any overdue debts before, they would also join in. Two further questions: Priority in issuing pensions in earthquakes and earthquakes, automatic renewal of the cards and unemployment benefits for at least three months, in cases where they will be fired, because there is no way of reopening the business. It's a little different from the first one, which has the prospect of reopening. I should like to say here that there has also been a directive from the FBI that there is no problem with earthquakes and that the procedures go ahead. It's a press release. Also by the OAED for the renewal of the cards, in fact in the first few days. So in these two sections, I think it's moved on. I do not know if it is actually the case, but the administrations of the two agencies have gone ahead and that is a good thing. Let us see the rest, Minister, because I think we need to give this support to people there, so that the local economy and society can restart on their feet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u62	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Kegeroglu, I would like to thank you for your question, because you are giving me the opportunity to refer to all the mesh of measures and interventions taken by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs at the very first moment to support citizens and businesses in Crete from the consequences of the earthquake, which has particularly affected the Arkalochori region, and will, obviously, continue to take if necessary because of the continuing seismic activity that seems to be cutting and hopefully so. Mr Kegeroglou, I have carefully read your question and I must first point out that as the Director responsible of the Regional Coordination and Support Agency of the Crete EFKA, the office of EFKA in Arkalochori was the first public agency that operated immediately after the earthquake. Indeed, at this service, workers are even working on weekends to deal with the workload resulting from the earthquake. You are asking what specific support measures were taken by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for earthquakes of greedy professionals, entrepreneurs and unemployed people and you raised five individual issues - what you mentioned earlier in your question. I'll answer all this. Our first and main concern, obviously in our area of competence, has been the regulation of insurance contributions from businesses and professionals to the affected areas. First - first by ministerial decision the following were defined as affected areas: In the municipality of Arhannes - Asterousia the municipal communities of Arhans and Kato Arhans of the Municipal Unit of Arhans, the municipal communities of Kalyvi, Liorgotinos, Tefeli and Charakius of the Municipal Unit of Asterousia and the entire Municipal Unit "Niko Kazantzakis", in the municipality of Gortina, the entire Municipal Unit of Agia Varvaras, in the municipality of Heraklion, the entire Municipal Unit of Temens and finally the entire municipality of Minoa Pedas, which was also the one most hit. For enterprises, employers or insured persons who have a professional establishment or activity in the affected and proven areas, the following facilities are foreseen: The first, to which you referred earlier, is the capitalisation of the late insurance contributions for employment periods until the end of the previous natural disaster, together with the additional fees, interest, increases and material charges incurred until the end of the month preceding the natural disaster. The second is the suspension of payment of the current insurance contributions for six months, starting from the first of the month in which the natural disaster occurred, without calculation during that period of additional fees or other increases. The third, which you referred to earlier, is the repayment of contributions - all capitalised and current - in twelve to twenty-four equal monthly instalments, starting from the first of the next month in which the six-month suspension ended, that is to say, we do not pay for six months, but after this period. The number of instalments shall also be determined by dividing the amount of the loss by one twenty-fourth of the total amount of the debt and in no case less than 12 months or more. At the same time, so far, in the context of seismic officers support, the administration of e-ECA has made a number of other actions. First, the exceptional and without immediate service of all citizens in the affected areas by the organic units of e-ECA, from the local e-ECA and from the Social Security Office of Arkalochori. Secondly, it has proceeded with the exceptional and unwritten order of immediate handling of every form of request and for all the former funds of our fellow citizens from e-ECA, namely the issue of pensions, benefits and other insurance issues. Thirdly, it provided exceptional treatment and processing of the pension records of the earthquakes of the municipality of Minoa Pedada in hours and days which will generally cover the increased needs of this period. As I said before, the workers at the local Arkalachori store are already working on shifts and weekends. In support of jobs, for the automatic renewal of the unemployment lists, which we have already made, and for the measures we have taken on special-purpose subsidies, I shall refer to my second language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Madam President. I will focus on three topics in order to make it easier, considering that one or the other is that the rest is of concern to the FBI and the OAED. For those who were in unemployment and for the month of September, unemployment benefit expired or now in October, and because there is no way for people in the region to find jobs, there must be care for a three-monthly payment of unemployment benefit. That's a matter. The second is for those working in business, professionals and business, because it has not yet found the other building, because the building has not been restored or for any reason, the special purpose compensation and the ban on redundancies, and also the welfare that has to do with the other issues, as is included in Article 17 of Law 4824 and has been applied to workers in Evia, following the disasters that took place there. I would therefore ask, in particular, for Rule 17 of Law 4824, which has been in force since the fires in Evia, to apply to earthquakes as well. It's absolutely fair and necessary. The third issue is, on the basis of government policy, a 'ACT-WORK' programme for the region, that there should be financial support to enterprises in order to keep jobs and to facilitate them in this context. These three specific ones, I think, Minister, you should see them. I'll tell you things are tragic. The whole area is hurt, but especially for Arkalochori, it's not the main road yet, it's forbidden to cross the main road, due to various problems. The President of the Republic did not pass on her car yesterday. She approached her feet, but because of the danger she didn't pass. It's a lot of trouble. So a worker cannot find himself in this position and not have the support or, of course, the support of an undertaking. Unfortunately, so far, the government has only focused on the building problem. It is necessary, because if the building of a business is not restored or anything else we do not go ahead, but the business must work, either in the same building or in another building, and workers must live their families. I am therefore focusing on these three to have a creative debate that will bring a result to the benefit of the affected area, which, unfortunately, as I said, has also kneeled in terms of social and economic life. All people are in a very difficult situation. Only the number of buildings found unfit to see. It's over six and a half thousand. It's the number that scares you on his own. And I'm telling you that the main road of the largest city in the region is not accessible yet and we've been over a month since it happened, it's got ribbons red. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u66	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr Kegeroglou, we have full knowledge of the problems caused by the earthquake in the Arkalochori region and contrary to what you have said - I have already answered some parts - we have not only focused on the building and I will respond to all three of the issues that you have mentioned. In addition, I would like to say that in my reply I obviously concentrate on the measures taken for this region. I am not referring to the general measures that apply to the whole territory, such as, for example, the 'DUMP - WORK' programme that you mentioned in your secondary. Apart from the measures relating to social security, which I referred to in my protology, to ensure jobs in the affected regions of the region of Crete, a draft legislation has been drawn up to introduce exceptional measures to address the effects of the phenomenon on businesses and workers. In particular, this draft regulation provides for the possibility for enterprises - employers in the private sector in the affected areas, regardless of industry and business, to suspend employment contracts for a part or all of their employees from the date of the natural phenomenon and for a maximum period of three months. Workers whose contract of employment is suspended are beneficiaries of exceptional financial assistance, i.e. compensation for a specific purpose, amounting to EUR 534, corresponding to 30 days in proportion to the days in which their employment contracts are suspended. They are also entitled to a corresponding proportion of the Christmas gift. Workers whose contracts of employment are suspended shall receive full insurance cover, which shall be calculated not on special-purpose compensation but on their nominal salary. The detailed periodic statements of workers whose employment contracts are suspended are obviously submitted by their employer. The OAED administration also renewed all registered unemployed and the automatic declaration of subsidised unemployed under the Regional Unit, which expired or expired in the period from 27 September 2021 to 17 October 2021. As to the question of the duration of the regular grant of unemployment, this is obviously dependent on the number of days of insurance. Common unemployed are subsidised for a period of six, eight, twelve months according to the legislation in force and are subject to the four hundred grant days limit over the last four years. The insured under the favourable regulations on seasonality in accordance with existing legislation have two alternatives: first, if they have gathered in the last 12 months before the termination of their working contract 50 days - they were normally between a hundred and a hundred forty-nine days, but we have already reduced it - to be subsidized for three months and five days, that is, eighty working days, without being subject to the limitation of the four hundred daily allowances in the last four years. If, on the contrary, they have between a hundred and a hundred and thirty days of work in the last twelve months, they can either be subsidized for eighty days or for a period of five, six, eight, ten or twelve months depending on their number of days of work. However, this is where the limitation for not exceeding the four hundred allowances has been applied over the last three years. Mr Kegeroglu, I would like to express my full support for the inhabitants of the region of Crete who are being tested and to assure them that the government, the state mechanism and the state in general will ensure and do everything possible to restore the lives of our fellow citizens who have been tested and hopefully will not continue to be tested by Encelado. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, too, Minister. And we are going to the last item on the agenda today's agenda on Thursday, No. 100/25-10-2021, a topical question by Mr. Chania of the New Democracy, Mr. Manoussos - Konstantinos Voloudakis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Amendment to the criteria for payment of livestock subsidies with CY No. 1217/264725/10-2021 of the Ministers for Rural Development and the Environment'. The question will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Spyridon - Panagiotis Lebanese. Mr. Voloudakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, is it possible for the citizen to apply for aid under a specific legal regime and for that application to be re-evaluated under another legal regime? However, this has happened with the question of applications for the distribution of pastures this year. Some livestock farmers submitted applications between April and July to be allocated pastures, as planned by the law, on the basis of the criteria that the law at the time provided for. Many of them then made real investments by buying animals, especially since this year, as you know, is the year that opens the programme for young farmers and that was a precondition. They did, then, invested in the costs of submitting applications, in the belief that they would receive aid because they fulfilled the criteria laid down by the law when they submitted their applications and on 5 October by a joint ministerial decision, you alter these criteria and you leave many of these farmers, except for the possibility of allocating pastures and thus of their participation in the national reserve, except for the grant to say it in simple terms, contrary to what they had planned, on the basis of everything, I repeat, the law in force. Isn't that, Minister, a provision with retroactive power unfavourable to the administrative result? Is it not a breach of the principle of the legitimate trust of the citizen in the administration? We are talking about the need for the stability of the investment environment, we are talking about legal certainty. The government that governs today has made these matters clear, and quite rightly it has made these matters very clear. But investment is not only business investment. Investments are also made by farmers, investments are made by farmers, investments made by professionals, and we must ensure stability in their business environment, and we must ensure that they are able to plan their production activity. There is no doubt that there are many distortions in the system of Community aid as it is currently, especially in livestock farming, and you must correct them in the direction you are going, even if there is a need for some modifications to that. But not, Minister, retrospectively, not with horizontal, absolute exceptions of categories of farmers and young, real and legal farmers. The way to correct distortions exists. First of all, where there is illegality, you need to check that particular illegality. It cannot move the state with the logic "with the dry ones burn and the green ones." Check out this illegality and I will welcome it first - and you know it - because you know how many times we have discussed other diseases in livestock farming in some individual cases livestock farmers really in certain specific villages of Kissamos, Chania and Keramias, who choose to live through systematic damage to their neighbors. You do not touch them with today's change of status, you are insulting these young people who want to start an activity. At the same time, I am sure you will be talking about an explosion of the relevant aid to Crete and the explosion of the number of amnocorps, etc. That's right. Check these, too. However, there can still be no logic "with the dry and the greens are burning". That is why I asked for the insight into what is going on. There is a solution, Minister, I believe it is right now. To postpone the validity of the FMC, to assess those who submitted applications this year with the status that applied at the time they submitted their applications and to explain to the world what the distortions are. Be sure that we Members - at least on the New Democracy side - will be with you to explain to the world what goes wrong and what it wants to correct, to set a new basis which will allow and operate the Community support framework properly and to make livestock farming in Crete sustainable again, because we need to take into account the fact that, in view of the current market conditions, livestock farming without Community aid is not sustainable. I'll say more about these in my denture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, I would like to thank you for the question you have asked me, as it allows me to develop the political will to rationalise and justice followed by our Government in our area. You referred to the question you ask me in writing. That is where you described and unacceptable the fact that the CSM changed, after the end of the period of submission of the declarations. That is practically what you have developed here today in the Chamber. I would like to remind you that over the past few years, the AAC of the allocation was issued precisely on this date. Nothing's changed. What is happening this year is what you tried to put at the end of your speech before, the Ministry's will to change the bad texts. The date, as I told you before, is exactly the same as it was every year. Honestly, I'm going to say it makes me wonder that you don't know that. But what do we do now with this DSA? Firstly, we are dealing with the huge issue of the untrue declaration of young animals by these farmers that you say we have cut today. What's the target? Unique and unequivocal: To incite subsidies by a few people - because there are not many of them in front of all our farmers - who are not entitled to them and to take them from others, many who really deserve them. So with the CIA, we overturn this injustice of the few at the expense of the many, we streamline the system and delineate the subsidy of the young animal technically, as it should have been a long time ago to one-third of the adult. Four thousand five hundred and fourteen people across Greece are affected by this fair decision. I have the evidence, I don't want to say it publicly. Take them, study them, if you want now or at any other time, and talk about Crete again and every county separately. I live in the fourteen thousand fourteen and fourteen people in all of Greece. The second thing we are doing with this KHS that you are asking me to withdraw: we are updating and rationalising the allocation coefficients by region, by calculating the 2021 data and not by taking the cash out of 2015, as happened in all previous years until today. At the same time, we ensure the correct and fair distribution of Union aid, by introducing strict penalties where there is an unjustified reduction in livestock capital. Aching there! Thus, all livestock farmers in the country - because farmers do not only exist in part of the country - are now receiving the same single subsidy rate after that GSM when they leave their region. In other words, we are abolishing with this KHS that you are telling me to withdraw the injustice that existed to date, which separated Greece in favoured and unfair regions, our farmers in privileged and unprivileged farmers. I guess you don't want that. Thirdly, with the CSM again, we ban those who have applied for and received a national reserve, stating private areas - take note of this - that the next year people themselves should be able to apply for a public area for pasture land, those who took as new entrants with private land leases and other national reserves last year. And that is what you say I withdraw it for it to come into force this year. The method followed is revealing. They asked for national reserve rights, as I told you, with private pastures, they took the money and the next year they rented those private pastures to third parties and came to the OPECE, the state, to get a public distribution. And you're telling me to withdraw that now. So what did they do? They were granted double rights, and at a time when, under Article 634 of the Civil Code, this lease is at least for four years. And I'll testify to that for you to see with other people. Do we thus liberate public land which is going to go? To the genuine farmers whom, as you said, we have discussed in the past, we would really like to strengthen. In this way we ban a thousand three hundred sixty-sixty-sixty-sixteen volunteers throughout Greece, in other words aspiring beneficiaries, who would, if we left them, use two hundred and twenty-three thousand, sixty-seven acres to save money from all our subsidised farmers. That's what you're telling me to do, withdrew the CIA. At the same time, if I listened to you, in paying the advance of the basic payment we made the day before, on 26 October 2021, we should, in order to follow what you say, cut off 30 million more from all of our farmers in order to find the resources to meet the requirements of these minimum standards, which, unfortunately, you are here today to make up their voice and which, in addition, also tarnish the entire livestock industry as a whole, a heavy and difficult job. If these 30 million, which we are saving with these decisions we are taking, add 32 million more, which come from the control carried out by OPEKEPE in 2021 for the 2020 national reserve, which has become the same, what we are correcting now - in the nine months that we are serving the real productive world of the country, we are in fact ensuring to our real producers EUR 62 million, which will not go in the direction that they will leave if I withdraw this KHS. Fourthly, we also have a third category of mackerel, those who exploit the existing framework, received rights from the national reserve and then, as they were not supposed to, what did they do? They were transferring them. In order to rationalise this distortion, we made another ministerial decision number 1180 a few weeks ago, which allows us to examine and cancel these transfers where abuse of the rules is concealed. We should do what you say. I'll tell you in my denture - so that I don't get away much - the sums we've saved from there. So far we're at the 62 million we've saved. By the first assessment of OPECE, this value of rights is determined by another 5 million euros saved by the scientists and left in the hands of the true producers. In other words, EUR 67 million for the real farmers. I am well aware, my dear colleague, that our reformist effort, the operation to change the mindset of yesterday, our struggle to change the paths of the past is annoying. It is, however, annoying the few, the wicked, the fussy ones. At the same time, however, it favours the many and householders who are fighting in difficult, difficult conditions to do their job properly and want a rule of law to support them. These are the very last ones we are protecting and we are trying to strengthen. I feel, my dear, Mr. Voludakis, the war that I'm getting into. I will testify to you in order to see a specific poster describing this very war as the few and the masters perceive it. But I am determined - I tell you perfectly calmly - to form a framework of justice, equality and change of our production model, precisely because I believe that livestock farming and primary production can become the main lever of growth both in Crete and in the rest of Greece. I sincerely feel proud of the work we do at the Ministry and the OPEKEPE, and I tell you that I wish even now, after the debate that we are doing here, you too will be at the expense of us in this effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Voloudakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you took advantage of your ministerial privilege to speak ten minutes - from the Step I have to say, I have not seen this in parliamentary control as a Member of Parliament for all the years I have been in this Chamber - and you have said many things that are answered to others from what I have asked you. In fact, I feel like you're answering another person. I will invite you to correct - I cannot say otherwise - a report you personally to me, which you know is not valid, because you know and saw that I tell you to check the illegality. What I mentioned to you, Minister, is that you cannot do this with retroactive power. And if you tell me that every year the CPM is on the same date, I'll tell you that it can, but it's not coming to change the data under which the farmers submitted their applications. That's what makes retroactiveness problematic. That is what makes this case an infringement of the principle of legitimate expectations in the administration. Minister, with what you have said, you may have the impression that you consider all those who submitted applications in which the law allowed them to be fraudulent. Do you consider them all crooks? You're talking about four and a half thousand people. I think that's gonna be a number, I don't have the evidence, you haven't given it to us by now. In Crete it is a very large number of them. Do you think they're all crooks? I, Minister, can't believe it. Do you know why? Because I know many of these people personally and I know people who have decided to put their children in the livestock sector and who are waiting this year for them to enter the programme of young farmers and have bought some animals to give them them and who have expected that they will receive, as the institutional framework so far justifies, an aid. What do you have to answer? You mentioned the issue of the multi-annual land lease contracts which you consider to be an indication that illegality is taking place here. So I'll tell you something you don't know and you should know. In Crete, in Chania, in particular, there are municipal areas, pastures, which are paid with annual contracts. You'll tell me, is the Civil Code broken? Possibly. The farmer who a year rented the pasture and the other one lost the municipality in the courts. Why? Because he expected that yes, he loses the meadow, but with the famous and truly distorting technical solution he will get land. There is a bad institutional framework, I will agree with you. But to the one whom I describe to you, who I know specific cases, what do you say to this man? "Have you deceived me?" It has not deceived you, Minister, and you have had to know these cases, because there are many of them. Now, Madam President, your tolerance, the Minister spoke for ten minutes. I will not speak ten, but I would like you to give me a little more time, because I imagine that he will use more time in his denture. I said and agreed that the situation is distorting and needs to be corrected. There from the Step that you have just swept through your data and your reform opinions, you mentioned five to six times that I ask you to withdraw the CIA. If you had noticed a little bit more and the question I submitted to you and what I said here, you would be careful that I didn't ask you to withdraw the HR, I asked you to postpone its power this year. Why? In order to enable those who applied to be judged on the criteria which the State itself had established in the time when they submitted their applications. You know, if the frame is distorted, the farmer didn't make it. It's not the farmer's fault, it's distortable. Don't give it up. But don't bring before unpleasant surprises people who even half of all of them do not belong to the charge you describe, who are far more, it's really unfair what the state does.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u74	All that you're talking about is adult and adult animals?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u75	I referred to what you mentioned as an example of pasture. You've spoken ten minutes. Let me also speak in my three - four. You spoke about the multiannual contracts and I explained to you why in Crete there are no multiannual contracts in some cases. Well, badly, they don't exist. OPEKEPE accepted them and knew that. Well, and for younger animals, I will tell you that yes, there is a problem there. The farmer did not create the institutional framework. And I'm telling you, yes, I know people who really bought new animals this year.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u76	All right, we gave them a third. How long does it take?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u77	Mr Minister, let my fellow Member speak, and then you will reply to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u78	Madam President, I have no problem making the dialogue alive, no one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u79	There is no such procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u80	I know that he is out of the Rules of Procedure, but I am happy to reply to the Minister and to what he calls me interrupting. Mr Minister, even for these new animals, I told you I knew cases. You say you'll give them a third. Very good. It can objectively be logical one third. However, this work, Minister, does not come out in Crete and the reason why it is not going to do with me and, if you wish, the State's inadequacies over time. And I'll tell you what I mean. The animal's work on mountain Crete is not coming out, because feed is much more expensive than in the rest of Greece because of transport costs, which is causing further distortions because the animal trade in animal feed is oligopolistic and the cost is increasing, becomes much higher than in the mainland. On the other hand, at the same time, the price of milk is much lower in Crete than in the mainland. I know it's about 1.20 in the mainland and it's 0.95 in Crete. Why? Again a combination of transport costs and the oligopolistic structure of the market. Did you send the Competition Committee to check these distortions? Because they are the ones that make livestock farming in Crete unsustainable.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u81	When we vote... (It hasn't been heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u82	No, of course not. So this distorted regime has come to partially correct this weakness of livestock farming in Crete. I do not claim that this should continue in the adjournment. But I claim that what you came here and mentioned to us here ten minutes by speaking from the Step you should have done it earlier so that people know where we are and should have told the world in time: "You know? Don't ask again this year for this data, you won't get any backup, so don't even get in on it." You say that and I'd be with you and applaud. And if you do it for time, cut off these procedures, but without having put some people in, let them be half the people, make real investments and wait for money for a job that doesn't come out without reinforcement and then leave them in the cold of the bath. Because that is the logic of "withdrawals burn and greens" and the state cannot have it. I'm here, Minister. I'm talking about green. I here, Minister, represent them. Because you said something about it before, I must tell you - because you mentioned what a Member does and what a Member does not do and whether I knew or did not know the time of the date of the adoption of the joint ministerial decisions in the past - that my work here, Minister, is to convey the problems and the concerns of the citizens who have elected me. In fact, not only those who have elected me, the citizens of my region. That's my job, and that's what I'm doing. And within what I have to say is that mountain farming in Crete cannot live today with the data we are discussing without any support. I've told you before. And you remember personally, because we have discussed this in detail personally, that I have always told you and that we should strengthen farming in the mountainous and at the same time put in many cases the distortions and diseases that have been created and how to control them by controlling illegality. That's why I'm exterminating myself. If you want...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u83	I'm listening, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u84	I'm glad. I would like to be sure that you are listening to me, because it is something that is very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u85	But you have to close down, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u86	I'm closing, Madam President. Excuse me. So you know that I didn't just say to you: "Strengthen livestock farming in Crete". You know I came here recently and told you "you know, there are certain illegalities that you need to check", precisely because I am not with the superintendents and stunters you say, but I am with the many and right and serious farmers. I mentioned to you, for example, that some who are using similar regimes - which are measured on their fingers - grazing their animals into their neighbours' crops. And they, in order to escape the consequences of another law that we have brought, which identifies them from the animals, have removed their animals. I have asked you to check on these cases. So you cannot, Minister, tell me that I am trying to preserve the regime. I want consolidation, but in a fair way, in a way that respects the citizen, in a way that recognises the weaknesses of the state and in a way that allows the mountain farming of Crete to live. Because without the mountain farming, there are no mountain villages of Crete and without the mountain villages of Crete, there is no Crete, with its identity, which we know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u87	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Madam President. I am sorry, because I was hoping that even today, after our debate, you would change your mind. I'm afraid, because we've known each other for too many years, you've been confused. I can't believe you really have studied the situation and you keep saying, after what I told you - and I will give you the rest of you to study it, just for the story -...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u89	In answer to these specific questions, Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u90	...because I think our dialogue will be completed here today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u91	Answer me for the specifics I mentioned, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u92	So I'm telling you, you come and you're basically talking about the new entrants who will get money from the national reserve, and you didn't feel the need to comment at all on where this money is going. You realize that the money taken by some comes out of someone else's pockets. One of this. That's what you said nothing about. Secondly, you're talking about those who come and invest as newcomers, and we're the ones who ruined the job, because we've brought the FSA. Do you know that there are about a thousand five hundred of those who came last year and took these rights - I told you before, but you didn't understand perhaps - and within five months they were sold? No investment! Funny, lazy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u93	It's not like I didn't get it. I answered you with a different example, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u95	So I tell you that those who come and really want to set up a productive operation do not take the young people, what we have reduced to 1/3. They're getting productive animals. So the ones you think you're representing are not affected by the OHS that we downloaded.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u96	Go tell them, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u97	Bring them all. They're not affected. These are the ones who go to make the favourite I told you before. I have told you personally and again in the Chamber - and it is well known that this is my position at all levels I have been politicizing - that if there are some cases in which we have made a mistake and indeed a green one burns down, we will see them and correct them. But in this case, which we are talking about unfortunately, this is not the case. But where there is, I am ready and apologise to ask and correct it. I would tell you to look for it a little further, to understand how the mechanism I explained to you and then to discuss with these people, to look for the isolated cases that have been made and to correct them together. You're saying we should do those checks we don't do etc. Well, in the middle of the year, OPEKEPE, fifty-seven thousand eight hundred ninety-seven on-the-spot checks. What you're saying we don't. Fifty-seven thousand eight hundred ninety-seven checks. EUR 14,376 000 have been sanctioned in thirty-five thousand VAT, multiannual administrative sanctions of EUR 7,500,000 in seven thousand VAT. Overall, that is, 22,000 euros to these people who, in one way or another, did what I told you before. Inside them, there is this hypothesis, which you are talking about all this time, forgetting the rest. Our position is simple and I will say it once again. We aim to rationalise the framework, strengthen the real farmers. In mountain Greece, not only in Crete, we have the program of balancing, precisely to support mountain farmers. We have our other programmes, which we have explained many times - we have explained them in Chania too - which can be exploited by true farmers and real farmers. We will continue with this position and will continue to correct all the distortions of the past, which you think are because they exist, we must continue, because 'What to do? That's how it's done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u98	I didn't say that. Don't twist things.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u99	If there is a special regime in your area, that is, indeed, the task of a Member of Parliament to correct it. It's not my job to fix it. If I can help, I can do it. However, I think I really am helping your region, and I believe, because I come from a large fodder area, that when you see these distortions in what numbers they have led, you will not say with the same ease what you have said today and which you have been supporting in the last few days. In any case, for us the controls are a key pillar of our policy. The creation in the rural area of a fair, strict and effective policy is the application of the rule of law to agricultural production. She's the one we're going to continue. I wish you understood your mistake in the course of things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u100	And I'm yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate is closed. We will be adjourning the sitting at 14 a.m. when we will be coming back on the agenda for the legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Single discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: "Reforming and modernising the regulatory framework for the organization and operation of rural trade, arrangements for the pursuit of leisure activities and for the simplification of activities in education, improvements to the collective legislation and other provisions of the Ministry of Development and Investment". In particular, as regards the organisation of the debate, it is proposed, in addition to the rapporteurs, the special speakers, the parliamentary representatives, as well as the ministers, that a first cycle involving one speaker from each parliamentary group is proposed. Then there will be dozens of talking cycles. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Members who wish to speak by teleconferencing via the webex platform will be placed when the speakers are physically present. The bill will be discussed in two single sessions on the principle of articles and amendments. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u103	The House has agreed. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Efstratios Simopoulos, therefore, has the floor for 15 minutes. Mr Simopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the people's markets are today a well-known one in the consciousness of the people's families, but also in that of the middle and high incomes, an institution. In simple terms, the vast majority of citizens have resorted to them, seeking quality and good agricultural products in particular. After so many decades of existence, the institution requires changes and reforms, but under no circumstances will its popularity be lost. This equation attempts to resolve this draft law, so move within the so-called ‘aristotle mediation’ framework. Is he doing it? Undoubtedly, yes. Among other things, it clarifies that natural persons and rural and female cooperatives are active on the public markets. So companies don't enter the popular markets. It also clarifies that the responsibility for managing them lies with local government. They are therefore not privatising the people's markets. It maintains the social criteria on the basis of which new permits will be granted, while both new and existing retain fully all the rights to transfer and legacy that apply today. Those - mainly producers - who currently have licences without combining themselves with their respective positions will be given positions through a specific procedure and then the announcement of new positions will be made. There is therefore no problem with existing permits. All penalties in the bill relate to a deduction for a period of time of the right to post and under no circumstances relate to removal of a licence except in exceptional cases, such as the non-market of a cash machine or the unjustified non-entry for a long time. Once again, however, the position is abolished, not the permission. In fact, fines, according to the Minister's commitment, will be of a milder character than those of the original bill. Let me stress here that the penalties are combined with audits and not with evidence, while the non-institutionality of the e-Price Consumer - and this is about you - because it was your intervention and it was made, dear colleague of the Vice-President - is not in any way linked with the removal of a licence, but with the exclusion for a period of time from the post. I now come to the question of producers, especially that of uninterrupted turnout. I am sure that no part of the House, but neither the producers themselves nor their institutional representatives, want to have producers without posts, who will remain hostage to the weakness of certain municipalities, but above all of the regions of Attica and Central Macedonia, a system which is not transparent, because it does not have the vacancy to be permanently defined. Each licence must be matched with a position. This attempts to make this bill, by digging the relevant procedure with the "Completed Agricultural Development Information System" programme. As the government has so far managed in many areas to introduce digital systems, so it does now. When the system works, the trade union would not be required to indicate its position to the producer without a licence. In fact, there is a sufficient time to adapt everyone to the system. It shall be given three or four months. As far as I know, the law will enter into force on 1 February. Thus, the regions of Attica and Central Macedonia will be able to capture topographically the coverage with positions of all the people's markets. The municipalities are then obliged, but also the regions of Attica and Central Macedonia, twice a year - I say that there must be three - to put the vacancy on the ground and to publish them. At the same time, the role of the people's markets is strengthened, provided that producers present to the public at least 50% of the production declared by the same production, an average of two years, while stressing that this will not ultimately be done on the basis of the area declaration to the UCLAF and is a measure which involves one 5% of the producers. I would also stress that the validity of producer licences - it will be clarified - is five years like professionals. Finally, for producers - I expect the Minister to do so - the possibility of converting their licenses into a professional will only apply to one part of Attica and to lots of less than twenty acres. In conclusion, there is no question of producers being uninterrupted in the people when municipalities and regions respond to their role and incorporate the new transparent system into their operation. I now come to the consumer, who must always be at the heart of our concern, not only of the government, but of the local government, of all parties and, of course, of all peoples. This is what the government is interested in by obliging sellers to post prices and quantities every morning. Be careful, though. This requirement is not directly applicable. It is based on a ministerial decision and will be combined with training procedures and even the purchase of equipment. Therefore, the fears of many professionals and producers that they will not be able to integrate the system will be unfounded, because time will be given to incorporate it into their operation through training, which they will enjoy. Citizens must therefore be informed of prices and even more of them must come to the people. With the same aim, the consumer, i.e. standard folk markets with single benches, high levels of health and safety and new products, are also being introduced. I understandably hear the request that standards be converted into some of the existing ones and that at least new ones should not be introduced at least initially. At this point, Minister, I am transporting a request from fishermen to the people: to allow their cleaning by the sellers in particular, since of course the specific hygiene rules are clearly laid down by the relevant ministries. Finally, the possibility remains for industrial sellers who are active and for fairs to go to the people's six days a week. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill to be passed tomorrow has nothing to do with the conclusions of a committee that saw the light of publicity in the spring. Many of the opposition continue to argue at that time. The final bill, too, in line with the Minister's public commitments - we will see it with the legislative improvements - includes several of the proposals of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, the bodies. It also includes a number of comments from the rapporteur for Officerial Response. I believe that the dialogue before the bill came to Parliament, but also to the committee, was detailed and substantial. The question of private-law legal persons only concerning the Region of Attica and the Law of Thessaloniki can be overcome within the next period of time until February 1st. I think that, after the intervention of the regional authorities, we should see this again. We have four months. Finally, I would like to stress once again that the bill is moving in the right direction and will help to improve the functioning of the people's markets without losing their popular character. It is also a bill that has no opposition from the region, on the contrary has agreements. There is a question from a part of the Attica trade unionists and a part of the Thessaloniki trade unions. However, these objections are slowly and slowly with the changes that have taken place in the bill, I think they are normal. So when we say there is a tombstone on the people's markets, we need to have an image of what people on the people's markets say all over Greece. Obviously, I invite you to vote on the bill. I believe that with the changes that have taken place, it will contribute to a different organisation and appearance of the people's markets. The only thing we need to see is the question of legal persons under private law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u105	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, for keeping time. The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Stavros Arachovitis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first meeting following the loss of the President of the Change Movement, the Fofi Gennimata. To express our warmest condolences, our sincere condolences, both in her natural and political family, and we will remember her as a fighter of life as a man who did not fight for all the battles she had against her. Our warmest condolences. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to vote on a bill that breaks down a ninety-three-year-old institution, an institution that was made for the least privileged, an institution that was created for the least privileged consumers, who have so far found cheap, qualitative, unmediated products, which have been in direct contact with producers who have been struggling in the field to produce and transport their products in adverse conditions and have been selling their products directly to consumers. In your bill reform, the creation of an e-consumer to the consumer is presented. Indeed, anything that has to do with transparency and citizens' information is certainly a positive reform. However, to find out whether the consumer is cheaper in Kifisia and the parsley in Piraeus I think that is not the answer, especially in the crisis of accuracy that we are currently experiencing. Is that how the Ministry of Development intends to deal with accuracy? It hits the least privileged producers. You know the fewer privileged producers, which were made for them the institution of the people's markets ninety-three years ago, are the people who cannot enter the big chains and the points of sale and movement of food, because the checks given by supermarkets or chains, the returns, the transfers that actually impose on consumers make their access impossible. That's why they choose to be 4 o'clock in the morning in the folk, in rain or ice or snow conditions and sit by 4 o'clock at noon to undo their benches to go to their homes, all this 12 o'clock in adverse conditions to be able to make a cut for their family. By converting permits to commercial in fact what is going on? The producer loses his capacity to be just a producer and, in fact, the worst is what we hear will only be photographic about Athens. What does that mean? That the producer, combined with the abolition of the rule of fifty - fifty producers, fifty professionals - are, in fact, slowly deported from the people. However, it is also for the least privileged sellers and micro-professionals that this break-up is possible. Why? Because if the microprofessionals could stand, they'd have a store of their own. He wouldn't be there from four o'clock in the morning. So what are they trying to do? They are also trying to ensure that by resale of a few goods or more goods, whether they are foodstuffs or other industrial products, they are also trying to save a place in the sun. Withdrawal of the licence if it is linked to a position - and that is important - means what? That no one has a license in his hands. If there's a seat, it's empty. If there's no seat, there's nothing wrong with it. This also applies to professionals and producers. The extermination fines, too, have you said, Minister, that you will change. Let's see. But what we have so far is vague, punishing and actually prosecuting both professionals and microprofessionals and producers from the people. I mean, listen to what's up until now and hasn't changed. With six-fold non-declaration of a parsley in the OPC, in the e-consumer system, in the six hundred and twenty-four times that will be found in the folk, that is, in the two years, we actually have a withdrawal of the post and again participation when a call comes out for the post. So, it's not just the revocation, it's until the call comes out. We put it to you. I think you got it. We expect the committees to see whether this will change, when you change it, when it comes to coming. We are already in the second week after the committees, and we have not yet seen any legal corrections, Minister. You had the time in the last week to get them to see them. The fact that you don’t bring them means that you’ve been doing something else so far, something else you’re haggling, and you’re talking to others, not to this courtroom that it legislates. The rest of the fines are outrageous. You saw it yourself. Everyone tells you it's punishable. But you are breaking up an institution which has consumer confidence. Consumers hug him with very much confidence. Here is a recent survey by the Institute of Consumers in March 2021 in a sample of two and a half thousand participants. It is interesting - I shall put it in the Minutes for colleagues - that the question is thirteen which says that 96% of the respondents want there to be producers in the people. He wants there to be producers in the people! By converting producers into professionals and breaking fifty-five - it is a combination, ladies and gentlemen, of producers with professionals, in reality, to the will of a large majority of consumers. That's why we're telling you you're far from society. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Stavros Arachovitis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But you also close a law, a previous law, which was only passed in 2017, a few years ago, L.4497, who was passed by the SYRIZA government, but by your vote. Your vote! You agreed on that. Law 4497/2017 passed with a large majority of this House and you don't even bother to apologize because you are abrogating this law. You don't change him. Watch out, you don't change his basics. If anyone sees the repealed provisions, most of the articles - from 1 to 60 - are abolished, no change, no improvement. You remove a law which you voted for, a law that established the participation of fifty-five producers and professionals. That's arrogant. That's arrogant! You are dissolving an institution and there is no explanatory statement either. When we pointed it out to you in the committees, you simply hung the bill itself under the explanatory statement. The bill on top you hung it under the heading'reporting' and you did not even bother with the text of the law that you hung on top of writing the word'reporting'. This shows that it is also a memorial toward the way you legislate. But you are dismantling an institution that the majority of the people who took part in this consultation are against. The Members have raised objections. The Committee of the Regions which has sent you, Minister, a recent letter dated 30/10, a few days ago, is against the signature of Mr Djijkosta and Mr Patoulis, who says that the law is inappropriate. In fact, he calls on you to return to Article 38 - if I remember correctly - of Law 4497/2017 and not to change it. The Committee of the Regions calls on you! I would like to put this to the attention of my colleagues in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Stavros Arachovitis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It's a cuff monument. Why? Because we have another letter, today, from the Institute of Internal Auditors, which accuses you of having legislation in secret, that I was surprised to hear that you were going to proceed to provisions and legislate in secret. I put this in the Minutes too, to see how you legislate. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Stavros Arachovitis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, the whole of the consumer was also opposed. You heard them at the board hearing. You heard artists, musicians, people with special needs. Everyone was opposite, or at least they had substantial remarks, which we have not seen until now incorporate into the changes, as originally promised. You are also abolishing Article 37 of Law 4497 on consumer markets. Consumer markets were a conquest of the consumer movement. It was also established by the vote on yours in Article 37 of Law 4497, and you are now abolishing it without anything else, without replacement, without anything in its place. You are abolishing an institution that has been implemented by mayors, who are in your own area, an institution that exists throughout Europe - and throughout the world, I would say - and you are not bringing anything to replace this. Let's see the course of the law. You started last February with a draft law, with a consultation, which was carried out with leaks, with 'loves', with a strange process, which put private individuals in the public and even privatised their operation. After the popular outcry, you took this back, as you tell us other things will get back. This at least shows the contrast between society as a whole and does not gather with patches. The core of the bill is the one we've mentioned to you so far. But, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the accuracy of the types of first need, food, supplies, energy, electricity, oil and economic disparities are widening, you have brought the most wrong bill to the wrong time. It was this bill that Greek society did not need now. What the Greek society needed was to tighten up, strengthen the directity, the inmediate relationship between producers and consumers. That's what the bill doesn't do, how much less if the arrangements you say - which we really expect to be very curious to see - are limited to Attica. This shows photographic layout, photographic legacy. So, you're finally legislating for a group of interests in Athens? Is this all in the bill? In other words, the possibility of converting production licences to professionals, the abolition of the fifty-five ratio and the connection of the licence with a position is concrete, absolutely specific. The world outside complains that at this time when it cannot cope with accuracy, you do not care about the large social majority and you think, legislate and do clearly unilaterally. The same is said of the raisin producers, the raisin producers who are working with them. Also, as in this bill, they call your MPs, except for the cooperatives and producers. Can't you hear your parliamentary group? Same in education. In your education, your MPs also call on you that the abolition, mergers of departments and the stacking of thirty people, students and teachers, to forty - forty - five square feet, is criminal, while the pandemic is fading. You're not listening! Also, in the health system, we have passed from applause to health and it seems that any control of the situation has escaped. Ladies and gentlemen, we will shortly be called upon to vote on a law which is a monument of bad, photographic and sloppy legislation. It is a law "three in one". In an article he has 25% of the legislature. And I'm talking about the article that has the ministerial decisions. And it's not a question of quantumity. It's a matter of quality, quality! For the first time, we have a bill for the people who do not have the kinds that can be sold in a folk! They are referred to a ministerial decision, and indeed the ministerial decision gives freedom to the notice to further restrict the list. In other words, there is no single framework, there is a question of legal certainty. We also have six amendments which affect a number of issues which have come at the last hour, without any consultation and presentation - we hope to see the relevant ministers here explain to us - with 33 articles so far as everything goes. We have even abolished the mere analogy to the trade unionism of the trustees, without any consultation, an institution, that of mere analogy to representation, which has existed since the 1980s, and you are abolishing it within an article! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will need less than a minute, Mr President. We expect to see - I say once again - the legislative improvements that you will bring if you change the substance, the core of your legislation. You are dissolving the people's institution with a bill that has problems of equality, proportionality, legal certainty. This law will be insulted and will never be implemented. However, we commit that whatever the law has, we will abolish it. This law will be abolished! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I'm sure they need changes. For these changes, base is L.4497/2017. That is where we start, that is what we are talking about with the institutions, and that is where we will move to whatever changes are needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u107	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Before giving the floor to the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr Pana, Mr Charalambos (Babis) Papademiriou, Member of the B3' South Athens Division of the New Democracy, asks that he be given a short-day leave for absence abroad for personal reasons from 27 October to 1 November. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u108	The House approved the requested permission. Here, Mr. Pana, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u109	To begin with, it would be very difficult not to mention as a representative of the Group of the Parliamentary Party of Change the great loss and enormous grief that we all feel about our President, Mrs Fofi Gennimata. And I would like to take this step, representing - I believe - all the Members of our parliamentary group, to exclude her work, her fightership and thus to give a real and political promise that we will continue the effort that she has started with unity and political culture. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in spite of all our disagreements on this bill from the Ministry of Development and Investment, we have come to the day of the long-awaited vote. Our disagreements have since the start been intense and have been made stronger after the hearing of the stakeholders, even reaching the point that we should ask for it to be withdrawn. So today we are in the unpleasant position to state that not only our own words and our own concerns have fallen void, but also all those affected by the provisions to be adopted. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, all this time, I and my colleagues have not stopped sitting with representatives of the public market unions and individual producers working in the outdoors, but not to see what is already known. The world now - and let me say this - is very concerned and we cannot accept that all these reactions are coming at random. Already since the first meeting we found to the majority rapporteur on the articles of the bill, proving that it is a bill that moves in the wrong direction and that no one can support it. A few days ago I placed myself on the bill of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, and I stressed there that if the legislation were to be decongested by the dismantling of our already economic and psychologically burdened fellow citizens and the proposed support mechanisms for households, we would not reserve their vote. That is because we are in favour of social policy and we call for legislation to be aimed at improving and reforming society, on the one hand, in a welfare state, by upgrading social services and by favouring human well-being, such as the quality of life of a person. And we in the Change Movement want modernization of this sector, we want organised outdoor markets with stable wastewater and electricity infrastructure and recycling bins. We want the introduction of new institutional market standards and the'sreet food'. But it is very important, ladies and gentlemen, that we develop in line with the demands of the times, that is to say, that this should not happen by stacking all those who have been fighting for years for a living, who have in fact supported the consumer's basket in all the difficult economic conditions that our multipathy has passed and continues to live. We therefore have to work on the issues raised to us by the nominating bodies or - to put it better - we have an irreversible duty to work on the issues, their share and the last moment to hear their demands. And to us in the Group of the Party of European Socialists, their requests seem reasonable, and that is why I will take them back to plenary: firstly, they call for legal persons to be set up in all the regions of the country which are responsible for operating and supervising the people's markets; secondly, for the uninterrupted submission of producers to the public markets and not once a year, for the abolition of the sixteen different ministerial decisions mentioned in the bill and give the ministry the power; fourthly, for the annulment of the decision to introduce the sector into the e-consumer platform, which applies to supermarkets with a turnover of more than EUR 50 million; and fifthly, for the elimination of the decision on tax and insurance information, seeking the constitutional equivalence of living trade. Minister, listen to their great 'no' to any conversion from producers to traders! Listen to 'no' in extermination sentences! Of course we are not in favour of unlawful actions, but of exhaustive fines and so strict a framework of punishment created by this bill alone against them. Nor should the balance be disturbed between producers and industrial professionals, nor should the proportion of producers' positions to professionals who are one to one. The philosophy and the reason for the people's markets will be lost, and all this is at the expense of consumers. And we need to think twice and three times before we proceed to the vote, to think for the benefit of producers, industrial professionals and consumers, who are responsible for the ever-growing wave of accuracy. We have heard you, Minister, in an interview to say that we are living at a time when pandemic forced governments to disrupt the economic cycle and, of course, until it finds the new position of balance, it will be a little difficult. Absolutely logical, perfectly understandable. We do not live in our world and we are all aware of the practical difficulties the government can face in managing the financial impact of the pandemic. However, Minister, you also stressed that the great wave of accuracy today that we are talking about has not yet come. But this in itself scares us, because we believe that bills of this type will lead us faster in days of accuracy and poverty, while avoiding them. Minister, let me stand on another point. You have said this a few days ago that we have consumers who spend and spend it means they have. Minister, no doubt, there are consumers who have and are spending. But what about those who don't have and who actually make them a folk cheek? So there we must turn our attention, for them we must also think about protecting the people who are looking to find the consumer goods, the types of primary need cheap and quality. Precision is not in itself a natural phenomenon. There has indeed been an international trend of appreciation and accuracy due to pandemic, but accuracy is now permanent given to Greek society over the last eleven years. There is, therefore, an increasing number of citizens, or even a loss of ability to secure basic livelihoods. The resolution of this bill, the privatisation of the people's markets and all the sufferings that will bring to employees in rural trade and consumers will lead to their economic impoverishment. So realization of accuracy is not enough. The Greek Government must stop appearing weak in the face of the superpowers of the market. And that, of course, is just the beginning. Therefore, the aim must be to politically address the very dominant social issue of accuracy in a sufficient, permanent and social law. In conclusion, I should like to stress that for the purpose of this bill and the provisions relating to rural trade, as well as the mini-educational bill contained in it, I really do not know what to say. He's leaving us speechless. We should therefore, instead of discussing other things, discuss the upgrading, modernisation and renewal of the existing people's markets, definitely keeping their social character and supporting the philosophy of the small and medium-sized enterprises, so the backbone of the Greek economy. Finally, because there was also a point made here by my colleague, Mr New Democracy, as far as the section of the regions is concerned, we have a different picture. And because we must now have clear political positions and we must all take the responsibility for this bill, a bill that, beyond a bill by a special group, is evolving into a bill dealing with the whole of the Greek society, as a Change Movement, we will ask for a roll-call vote on the principle of the Ministry of Development and Investment bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Syntakakis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President. The government in this draft law regulates, as it says, the institutional framework for the organization and operation of rural trade. In our view, these are regulations which do not change the substance and the reactionary nature of the draft law. It is essentially a bill that overturns the nature of the institutions of the people's markets, as we know it today. For the record, since the beginning of December 2020, the federations of producers and traders of popular markets had been given a proposal for a law to replace the existing one, by Law 4497/2017. Since then, he's seen every little bit and a little bit of a plan. A total of five preliminary drafts have been drawn up. In practice, the government has swept through time in spite of all the changes it had to make in relation to the original one, mainly looking at how it will close the fronts opened with producers and professionals of the people's markets. Hence the interventions throughout this period of the Minister himself trying to convince that he supports popular markets. In any case, the central logic behind the bill as a whole is that of increasing competition between producers and professionals to acquire a place on the people's market, tightening up the framework for the functioning of the people's markets and creating conditions that will lead to a gradual change in their character as an institution that ensured an income in poorer and weaker social strata, but also as an institution that ensured cheap and good products for the vast majority of our people that meets their daily nutrition needs through the people's markets. The New Democracy has never abandoned its original target for the people's markets, which are turning them into purely commercial ones. In fact, he resorts to a regular manoeuvre to return to the initial stage, when he finds the right opportunity and has cast out a large part of the outdoor sellers. So, what's he doing? It temporarily removes the most outgoing points of the original project with which it licensed companies to enter the people through public-private partnerships and led them to full privatisation. Now with this bill it leaves wide open doors and windows to succeed in the ultimate future, since gradually and with mathematical accuracy it will lead to thousands of professionals outside the popular market. At the same time, the road opens, of course, and to increase the cost of food for the majority of workers, since the increase in operating costs will sooner or later be passed on to the products themselves. The new changes incorporated in the bill, the Minister announced at the last meeting of the Trade Committee, also do not change the substance of the bill. For example, the increase in infringements to three of two needed to withdraw the licence after tax controls does not alter the fact that the popular markets are differentiated in relation to the rest of housing trade. Again, the fact that the licence is being revoked is the problem. It's not changing, that is, the substance. The same, of course, applies to other corrections. The JRC is perpendicular to these methods. That is why it is voting against the draft law in principle. The proof of the Government's real intentions to dismantle the arguments of trying to support the people's markets is, firstly, the obstacles it has put into the whole of the pandemic by applying the same catastrophic measures it has implemented in the rest of the port trade, although especially in the people's markets, given that they operate in open spaces, all the necessary measures could be taken to enable them to operate in full development. People's markets in many regions of the country have been closed for a period or limited to 50% of their capacity. Secondly, the aid received by the vast majority of producers and professionals for the entire period which remained essentially without income was crumbs. The same applies to producers, mainly farmers who have suffered a number of major damages from floods, fires, hails and heavy income losses and have never been compensated. Also, anyone who had the chance to get something was far behind the real needs. Thirdly, proof is the bill itself, which is being discussed with significant changes in relation to existing Law 4497. They are the authorizing provisions of Article 67 with which the Minister gives his own advantage. In fact, we have two bills, one clearly tabled to the House, that is, what we are talking about, and one secret, one dark one, as the representatives of the professionals of the people's markets rightly say. The myth of the government's social dialogue with producers and professionals is being dismantled when the Minister in question can simply overthrow the law he has brought here to Parliament. It decides, in other words, and orders on its own how people's markets will function, when and who will be involved, when and who will give the licences, when it will take them back, while he will have the first and last words on the notices, the supporting documents, which are sold and so on. That is why I repeat that the government with this draft law is gradually paving the way for its objectives, as reflected in the first draft. The current authorisation procedure of a producer from the municipality concerned shall also be postponed and the person concerned shall be referred to the respective tenders, with an increased probability that there will be a sufficient number of people left out of the public markets. Moreover, especially for professionals who have so far taken into account a number of social criteria that have been in force - disabled, polytexts, Roma, dependent, protectionists of single parent families, deportees - thousands of professionals who have benefited from them to safeguard the licence and have found a job which is relatively competitive and dominated by the dominance of large commercial stores and supermarkets. Now, the basic molecules criteria are being removed from some of them, such as Roma and others are added, such as the age test, possibly leading to older professionals outside the folk, but also to the higher education degree that is more difficult for thousands of professionals who have obviously not graduated from their respective schools. But for the students themselves, the current students who see the nightmare of unemployment visible, it is indeed a mockery of access to the popular markets as a professional way out. The same applies to the provisions of Article 46 concerning the purchases of craftsmen and artists. The prohibition on the participation of a seller in a contract notice shall also be maintained if no charge relating to outdoor trade has been paid against any authority and the operator. This provision that was in force before it was sufficient for the professional to be informed only during the period of renewal of his licence. Now, on the basis of the draft law, all the documents should be kept up-to-date, which will make it even more difficult for sellers. The actual negative aspect of this bill is Article 21 with the stricter framework for popular markets which leads to the loss of a place of activity, thus also leaving the public markets, with a large proportion of professionals who do not meet these criteria, such as the non-payment of a fee for two consecutive months or the sale of at least 50% of the declared quantity of products, unless tax proof is issued twice in the same year. These are inadmissible arrangements that do not apply to any other sector of housing trade. With regard to short-term markets, the bill reduces from 20% to 10% the percentage of producers and professionals able to take part in commercial fairs, and this is only for those who employ less than four days on popular markets, which are numerically few. However, the same does not apply to importers, craftsmen, wholesalers and other sectors. The high level of the day-to-day fee is also unbearable for producers and professionals and, in our view, must be drastically reduced. Management bodies, namely the regions and municipalities that collect the daily fee, should be responsible for undertaking all the services operating on the markets from write-offs, clean-ups and much more, not to delegate these responsibilities to private companies and thus also to reduce this reward fee. Also, the distribution of daily fee revenues in the Attica and Central Macedonia regions from 60% to 40% in regions and municipalities respectively, to 50% and 50% for both, as well as 75% and 25% for municipalities and regions respectively for the rest of Greece. Management bodies are now able to define the working hours of the people's markets six days a week, which we do not fundamentally disagree with, but we disagree vertically on the non-insurance of Sunday holidays - earlier, it was Monday to Saturday - and also on the possibility of regions and municipalities setting different hours on the people's markets, thus making it even more difficult for producers and professionals. We have no objection as a party to the management of the people's markets from the municipalities themselves and regions for Attica and Central Macedonia. However, we are vertically opposed to entrusting private operators, i.e. companies, the whole management of popular markets. In practice, it opens the way for the operation of the public markets on the basis of private economic criteria, thereby removing all the responsibility of the regional services on these issues, while no State financing obligation is provided for. The penalties provided for in the draft law are exterminated in connection with housed trade, too. The foundation of the standard people's markets will lead to the diversification of the markets themselves. This opens the way for standards to differentiate products for sale, thus exacerbating competition between professionals and producers, and opening a window to companies in the future. Finally, there is no provision for sellers using motor vehicles. It does not provide for the granting of positions on the public markets as provided for in the current legislation. That is why the changes provided for in the bill do not lead to the protection of professionals. What kind of modernisation is this when an important part of it - and even the poorest one - is being expelled from the people's markets and is losing the right to act? What kind of changes are these when it is to be determined by the Minister concerned, as long as the anti-grassroots policy, which leads to general insecurity, to unemployment, but also to an increase in the prices of products themselves? The foundation of the people's markets, with whatever social features they have in place so far, is a real way out for the diet of thousands of households who today see their incomes being scrambled as the result of the general anti-grassroots, anti-grass policies, as well as the evaluations that empty the popular wallet. The only way out for self-employed people in the people's markets is to integrate their struggle to overthrow laws such as the one we are discussing, to take measures here and now to ensure the right to work on the people's markets, but also measures to cover the great losses of income during the quarantine. We are talking about measures that will reduce production costs, especially now that increases in electricity and oil have already evaporated production costs, but also measures of a more permanent nature that will allow them to have a decent income for themselves and their families, such as tax-free, generous deletion of debts in taxes and banks and many more. The position of the JRC is, therefore, that the operation of the public markets must be the responsibility of the public bodies with a required structure, centrally, regions and municipalities. All kinds of management problems and therefore all reasonable operating costs must be the responsibility of these bodies and not the trade unions, as has been the case so far. Let me refer to the licensed craftsmanship - artist and to the rules of operation in Articles 8, 43 to 47. In almost all the great capitals of Europe, the presence of artists and artists on the road, as well as of visuals, actors and musicians, is part of the city's artistic life and an issue that is inextricably linked to tourist development. To create and expose their arts outdoors to visual artists is a matter of cultural character of the place and not a commercial act. Visual artists who decide, either by need or by choice, why they do not want to depend on the galleries, to expose to the street do not match the countryside dealers. On the other hand, they are radically differentiated because they maintain their status as creators of artistic work. This status must therefore be taken into account in this draft law. The draft law does not, however, take account of it. That is why, and also because the Minister has not taken into account the additional proposals we have put forward in committee and continues to face up to the artistic creation as it faces the production of goods, while not giving a solution to the problem of street artists, other artists such as musicians and performers who are still considered to be prosperous, for all these reasons, we are voting 'the present' in these articles. I shall conclude, Mr President, with the amendment tabled by the JRC. As a JRC in practical support of the fight against fire extinguishers, but also the fight against fires and other disasters, we have tabled an amendment calling for the permanentisation of all five-year and seasonal fire extinguishers, their self-evident integration into permanent fire personnel without a new crisis. Our party has repeatedly expressed its radical disagreement with the perpetuation of this unacceptable situation that has existed for so many years in the Fire Corps. We therefore call on the Government to accept the amendment, a yearly and fair request from five-year and seasonal fire extinguishers, and we call on the other parties' parliamentary groups to support this amendment in practice. Finally, Amendment No 1111/87 sets out the first article on the arrangements for the election of organs and representatives of trade unions from the Greek police, which we consider to be unacceptable, reactive. The responsibilities of Mr Theodorikos, the Minister of Civil Protection, who has undertaken to do another dirty job on behalf of this time the most reactionary ones exists in the Greek Police. The authoritarian catapult of the government has no stop. It thus seeks to fade and manipulate every opposite voice by determining majorities in unions. And of course he doesn't just do it to the Greek police. It's been generalized throughout the trade union movement. It targets every worker policeman who does not agree with government policy and favours representatives of government unionism. We are therefore calling for this particular amendment to be withdrawn immediately here and now, because it recommends a direct interference with the trade unions' things by means of a joint vote in their elections. Of course he brought it last week because it was the elections in POSY. It resulted in the sad event with the death of the Phophysic Genemas. In any case, however, this matter applies. Finally, with regard to the last amendment which was tabled yesterday on the TA I grant, I would like to say that this is a photographic provision. It remains to be explained who is a photographic device for which region is a photographic device. You have turned it into a science to bring ministerial amendments and special photographics into irrelevant bills. Of course SYRIZA and other parties did. In any case, you must tell us which region it is concerned with. Is this about Evia? Is this about Attica? Who? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr. Covenant. Mr. Konstantinos Boubas, special speaker of the Greek Solution, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say that it is very sad to see the seat empty after the fall of Fofi Gennimata. We express our condolences. The lesson is that we are all opportune in this futile world, so it would be good to put a little stone in the political life of the place for tomorrow's sake, for the sake of our children. Let the dirt that covers the Gennama light be light. It's eternity. Memory. These moments are difficult for the whole political spectrum. As to the draft legislation under discussion, when we tabled a timely draft, Mr Minister, in early February as a Greek solution, you told us not to forbid you to speak. Of course you can discuss it. You said it wasn't even a draft law then. We insisted as a Greek Solution and at the beginning of February we tabled the timely question, because we knew what is next, what is coming. You've met a lot of small sellers, with the producers, you've talked about it again, you've fermented it, you've created reactions. It's not bad, but the many meetings why? I don't know. Wasn't the climate clear? It's counting the result. What we say as Greek Solution is that we are vertically opposed because with mathematical accuracy the farmer will perish. And I would like your arguments to tell me that something else is going to happen. With regard to the timely question we tabled as Greek Solution in February, why were we listening to the agony of producers and micro-sellers, we are being verified as to what point? All that has changed is the management body, auctions and tax information in any case to see who has the big income. Otherwise, everything else is the same. As far as the positions are concerned, you try to golden the pill and once a year you have done it twice. And he'll wait for the other one when a vacancy is created. In an interview I read lately you said that it does not have the moleculosis, it does not lose its place, but goes to another people's market. But that is the way it loses its meaning, its philosophy, the purpose and purpose of the people's market. The people's market - you know it very well, you have the experience - is based on the interpersonal relationship between seller and consumer. This interpersonal relationship is built in a popular meeting, such as the popular market, in the church of the municipality, at this popular festival, which will lose its essence and importance. You've made the last governments the big stores, the big shopping malls. What was the result? The manaves, the fisherman, the butcher has disappeared. Even electrical appliances and clothes sell the stores and large supermarkets. We've brought it all together, more generally, trade powers. The substance's gone. And I say now: what is the purpose and role of the people's market? Protect the producer. How is it protected? You say he'll sell 50% on the basis of IACS declarations. I hear a producer say it makes forty tons of apples a year. Is it possible to sell the twenty tons of apples on the people's market? It's inconsistent. If it's hit by a theory or has olive oil and give it with a package or find an opportunity, what can we do? To prevent him? Minister, because you are a historian, I will tell you something that I think you know, or look into it: In 1929, people's markets are being created in Freedom Venizelos. Panagiotis Vourlomis and Mayor of Athens Stavros Patsis is Minister. It's the "come see" with the middlemen. They are trying to convince them to come down to the people's market to leave the middlemen who suck the blood of the people, the farmer's blood, the producer's blood. They're hungry. The institutions of the people's markets are starting. In 1931 the People's Markets Fund was created. What's that? What people are asking for today, to create a body for themselves to say their opinion. In Article 5. What do people say? We must also have a say, a view, a People's Markets Fund or a People's Markets Directorate. The letter sent yesterday by Mr Djijkostas and Mr Patulis said that it is impossible for the people to move around in this way. It's impossible. A legal person must be created in which producers and retailers themselves and many others need to be involved, which at least need to be clarified. You say we come in - run the other one in the morning - on the platform e-consumer. With regard to Article 41(2), you said to me next time: "You say this reluctantly? That it is a low level of spirituality?’ Other education, other education. People have education and they'll give you the best advice people in the folk because they've been fermented in the university of life. They have experience, they are wise, but they don't have the training of a fifty, fifty-five, sixty-age laptop. He must also take his son along or call to give him instructions how he will put prices and quantities on the popular market. Question: Have you ever seen the people's market while prices go up? They always get it. For that is what is happening in the people's markets. What is the producer's difference now - a farmer? Man doesn't sell anything plus VAT plus profit, but he pays VAT. It sells for its live cucumber, lettuce and tomato, but it gives VAT as regards the paper bag it puts, the nylon which is abolished, as far as the oil is concerned. So it is a situation that is different in the people's market from the direct producer. The point, gentlemen, is that there is no debate about how the GATT we have signed for years will protect consumers from the intact introduction that will take place, disrupting the trade balance. We will see invasive Malaysia again, we will see potatoes from Turkey, Egypt, Tanzania, Madagascar or I don't know where. That is why no one is talking, but there is a tangible example here. The gathering, as took place at the malls, dismantles professions, vaporizes them. You're now talking about moleculosis to the graduate. The job is a sacred thing. I've done quite a few jobs, and I, as most people imagine, have done for biopolitics. But so we're going to convince the full brand graduate who's gone abroad, "Go back and work a small seller on the people's markets"? It's not bad, but else it's his dream to the caretaker who specializes. We don't bring him with these molecules, fifteen molecules, the university graduate, five molecules, and if he doesn't collect the molecules, we throw him on the next market and go on to create a new clientele. Because you easily find the client, it's hard to keep him. Where's the e-consumer? Tell me. I've searched all the populace markets on the planet earth. In Canada, where there is an outdoor popular market, and I also told the State Secretary, Mr. Papathanassis, who has graduated there, that alcoholic drinks are banned there? Barcelona, Paris suburb, Germany? Tell me where it goes. Last time I told you, did you answer that they have other income criteria there and that the French, who are French what are they doing? They protect local agricultural products and give tax exemptions of 0.20% up to 43.000 euros. Another standard of living for me to accept it in part, but they also give them the guarantees, the incentives to keep the people's market as it stands, not to lose its philosophy, this interpersonal relationship. Because the people's market - we must all understand it - is a 'prohibit' of social problems. There you will say your pain, your joy, you will speak with the producer you know about a whole life. It is not just a shopping centre you want, Mr. Minister, Mr. Georgiadis, to turn it into, because it will lose its essence. With these e - Consumer and run with laptops, computers will become an electronic future - you will see it - commercial auction with import products and disappear the small farmer - producer. Because the substance is that, to protect the producer. How to protect himself? 50% -50% will be retained, the balance between the producer and the seller, the retailer - that is the essence and the importance - of crafts. Let me tell you now about the final state. What have you done? You've degraded the city council as government. You give a priori powers to the Economic Committee, which decides which issues will come to the City Council. I ask myself, because management will be in the municipalities: is there not the risk that the door will be opened to private management bodies and a committee will not even have this issue put on the popular market for the municipalities? Not that the municipalities have made no mistakes. For tax reasons only have a few people's markets. There aren't even toilets. It is not a distinction for the two metropolitan centers of Athens and Thessaloniki, where you give the region the opportunity, while the rest of the people are managed by local government of the 1st degree. It's a distinction. We now go to the present article, which is, of course, the concentration of powers in relation to the interpretation of ministerial decisions. That's where the big booze is. How will ministerial decisions be interpreted and what concentration of powers can you and those who succeed you as Minister? In other words, will you be the one who decides on the items to be sold on the people's markets, on the conditions for the disposal of the products, in accordance with Article 53, on the conditions of operation? What kind of crone power is that? This, once again, creates a priori an arrogant power to the Minister concerned. I am not talking personally about you, but about those who are succeeding at the wheel. It can't be done. There must be consultation, and once people are not in a legal person, so that things can be negotiated, because close together there will be bio-ports, small sellers and producers will not be heard. The fines are exterminating. I'm not talking about illegitimate action. There are illegitimate actions, but these fines really face them like big tax evacuators and e-consumer what do people say? Does the big supermarket do it, or does it have a turnover of EUR 90 million to enter the platform e-Consumer? The woman who goes to the folk this morning, your mother, you, your grandmother, your grandfather, knows the prices and how much the carrots have and how much the celery has, because she's been doing and doing the negotiation. He knows three pairs of socks have three euros. It lets the time pass, turns around and says 'give me two euros' and the other one, because he didn't make a chef, he gives it to me. But the people's market is also happy. It's this popular meeting. For the record, too, I would remind you that we had two attempts - search it - in 1954 in Larissa and in 1964. What did they try to do? Because history teaches, the term of history shows it. They went to tear them apart. Who tried to dismantle the people's markets? Big messengers? Who are the big middlemen today? The stores. When the term ‘producer’ becomes ‘professional seller’, this modernization, the commercialisation of the people elsewhere refers. And who tells me if a department store doesn't baptize an employee with a service invoice and a block, make him a "seller professional" - the "producer" does not exist - and sell new ones from a big "string through the engagement" store in the folk? Who's keeping that? That's why we say the folk is a sacred thing and you know it. Don't ruin the traditional character. Even this joy started by the other one to go and say that "the last week he had the tomatoes so much, to see how much he has them today" and this is a compromising emotion that changes psychology. Whew and alas if the traditional nature of a people's market in favour of the small one is lost. You are giving an extension of five years for licences, but it is not panacea. The panacea would be to preserve the small farmer, who is trying through statements by the UCLAF, but that's not a quantity, but it's a crop. You're telling him that 50% with the stalk, or what? That's not how it works. Conservation of character, putting in producers - farmers. We stress this as a Greek solution too, because we need the primary sector to support it. And they've been out lately before we legislate and they're told: Do you want to sign up to be professionals? It is an illusion to say that the Commission is not prepared to do anything about it. They're taking advantage of the situation to make them professional. And you tell them, Minister, that they will take money from the National Regional Development Plan, as the NRP is now called. However, we must tell them that, from this year, 2021 to 2027, the NSRP in the 'Group of Europe' programme and in the 'Horizon EUROPE' programme finances processing. That is why we call as Greek Solution that the healing herbs, aromatic plants, everything needs to be standardized. Producers will not just get funding out of nowhere through the ESRB. You're not telling them the truth. It's a processing stage. They'll get money from the NRP, the other one who gets his fruit and vegetables off without standardization. The NRP cannot give it to the agri-food programme, as there is another programme with rainwater reservoirs. Let's go see what they're gonna do. Also, what with the amendments, this camouflage - variant, is it the soupe method to bring some amendments to issues relating to peoples, such as the IEK, or the Chambers of Commerce, or what you are preparing for tomorrow in the Minister's bill, Mr Karamanlis, where an amendment is coming, which he says in the light of COVID? We'll be recycled for medical staff. We're opening a door for doctors too, and there's not gonna be any new recruitments. Does people know about this? Have you, ladies and gentlemen, seen the amendment that comes tomorrow too in there? That's not how it works. Chambers of commerce must have another role and must not be of an advisory nature alone. Business in the region is the link. Such important issues cannot be raised, such as the IEK, or issues relating to Mrs Kerameos and the Ministry of Education, or the Chambers of Commerce in the People's Markets. There are, of course, a number of articles that we have...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u114	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u115	I shall conclude, Mr President. We have not just raised our objections, we have been vertical since February. And so that we don't forget, and it's not reproach, Minister, but I'm very afraid, because the collecting companies perpetuate, I'm afraid the day after tomorrow gets a collector to the people and tells the world: "You paid a daily fee? Because you owe two monthlys." Let me remind you that you, on April 28, 2011, along with your fellowman at that time and Minister of State at the time, Mr. Plouri, at LAOS, had tabled a question on the violations of the tax collector's companies against the world. I hope that this with the collecting companies, Mr Georgiadis, - scripta manent, here is your question and you did well then - but this check please with the collecting companies to call the retired person or the unemployed and to call him 'PUP 50 euros', pay it, if anything happens to this man, raise the pressure, sugar, heart and find himself in the hospital, as a favour of the state where he is? With the bonus collector on the phones he makes in hours that he doesn't have? You submitted them then and I would ask you to keep them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, too. The reason is the special speaker of Mera25 Mr. Kriton - Ilias Arsenis, who speaks via Webex. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much. Mr President, Members, MPs, Minister, we have a bill which systematically attempts to exclude the producer who really needs people to be bio-accounted for by access to these people. We have a bill that replaces the proposal that the Minister has told us that she has not done, but obviously her spirit is here, so that individuals and supermarkets can enter the people. He replaces it with an article 67 that gives the Minister the right to decide every detail of the operation of the people and to amend the law in such directions. Let's see what Article 67 says. I will read one of the powers it gives the Minister to understand and the citizens who listen to us what is going on here. By Ministerial Decision, the Minister shall decide the specific terms of quality, hygiene and food safety available in outdoor trade. A joint Ministerial Decision of the Ministry of Development and Rural Development defines the types of sales for the producer and the professional seller. The decision of the Minister of Development determines how to change and add the products sold, their combined sale, their form, the items mentioned and the others. The decision of the Minister of Development shall set out the supporting documents required for the granting, transfer and renewal of the licence for the production of a professional seller and the corresponding positions or rights of activity in outdoor trade. The decision of the Minister of Development defines the specific conditions of citizens' activity in outdoor trade, the number of posts and the sectors of products marketed in popular markets. The decision of the Minister of Development shall lay down the terms and conditions for the issue and the details of the proof of annual activity in outdoor trade. The operating conditions of the short-term markets and the items, products and services available or provided to them shall be specified. The decision of the Minister of Development determines the details of the authorisation for placing and the right to operate on the world-wide trade of a producer and a professional. The decision of the Minister of Development shall specify the details of the placement licence and of the craftsmen. A joint decision of the Ministers for Development, Health and Environment specified the terms and conditions for subjecting cantins to notification. The decision of the Minister of Development sets out the technical specifications of the licensed position and the right to operate on the world-wide trade. The joint decision of the Ministers for Development and Digital Governance defines the user groups as well as the function and conditions of use and any other technical or other issues relating to the OPSAS, i.e. the operation of the online popular market platform, for which previous speakers have referred, and I shall refer in detail to them. A Joint Ministerial Decision of the Ministers for Education, Shipping and Tourism shall designate the competent authorities and operators and the operating bodies in general of the countryside trade and lay down conditions and conditions for the activity of the holders of authorisations for outdoor trade in areas within the competence of any legal entity. A joint Ministerial Decision of the Minister of Development and, where appropriate, other Ministers specialises in the obligations of the auditing bodies and guidelines are given for the exercise of controls. I have so far spoken about the rights and obligations of producers, the controls, the kinds that go into the people's market, as far as the people's markets are concerned. Everything with ministerial decisions specializes. The decision of the Minister of Development specialises in the contents of the control mandate, the audit report, every detail of the control of the people. The decision of the Minister of Development shall determine the time for the entry into force of Article 56(1) for the obligation to register data from those on the public markets on the e-consumer digital platform. And we're not done here. The decision of the Minister of Development may specify the objects of the economic activity of legal persons and undertakings that may operate on specific thematic markets. As far as the functioning of the people's market is concerned, it is in the hands of the Minister. This law is a framework. The decisions are taken by the Minister, they are ministerial decisions. There's nothing stable here in front of us. Everything can change. The text that Mr Georgiadis is renounced today in practice can come back on the basis of ministerial decisions. But let's go see the Minister's intentions, the ones he has not been renounced. Let me make it quite clear here that as Mera25, we are not personally addressing the Minister. It's not personal. The Minister represents the government's targets. In his own way he sells to all of us the government's decision. That's his job. It is the government that is aiming for the young to leave and for the great to enter, for the sharks to enter the people, to stop the free access of citizens to quality food at accessible prices. That bothers the supermarket chains. That's what they want to stop, and that's what they want to do. In Article 15, we have a ban on participation in licensing and licensing procedures. Who? To those who have not repaid any debts relating to outdoor trade charges. For those who already have a licence, its loss is for the same reasons. That is to say, for the producers and traders who find themselves in financial difficulties, which I think we all agree with those who hear this debate and those who are in this Chamber that it is common after ten years of memorandum. It is common in this tragic economic crisis with lockdowns and the coronary. And it is predicted to happen against a government that discusses whether it will make a new lockdown. And while it discusses the new lockdown, whoever finds himself in financial hardship because of the lockdowns will not be able to participate in the people tomorrow. Article 16. The licenses will be given by molecule. What are the criteria? Whether he has a university degree is more important than being homeless. It's more important than his age. Is it a vulnerability criterion, do I ask the government's representatives, the university degree? What's the popular market? Excellency field? And why is it not a university degree for the Chief of the Cypm, for the appointments of the Head of State to the Ministries? But does the producer and seller get molecules in folk because he has a university degree? Is that the excellence? To the others? Obstruction of vulnerable people? Article 17. Listen to this - listen, a condition for the re-entrustment of a place on the people's market and a right to planetary activity is the sale of 50% of the declared quantities of products in the IACC. In other words, one producer declares all its production in the UI. Half of its production should sell it. If he doesn't sell it, i.e. if he goes badly, it doesn't go well as a producer in the folk, we're kicking him out of the folk. So, a criterion for the folk is how good a salesman is? Is that the criterion? Criterion is how well it sells or how quality products it has or how much it needs to get away from intermediaries. It is the people's refuge of producers from middlemen. The criteria you bring, they help in this process? They're blocking her, because this bill is for middlemen. Because the big guys are about to gradually get the supermarkets into the folk. It's a bill in two phases. Now start with this and tomorrow will come another. It is a bill that exhaustes its rigour on small, vulnerable producers one week after the legalisation of all possible obstacles to environmental inspectors, in order to impose a fine on large companies. Three were the stages, thirteen did, where you simplify procedures for the large. When it's about control for the big guys, you're too galantic. In fact, you will give them up to three years of compliance. You give producers two months of compliance! And if they don't have money to pay, you throw them out of the folk. And if they don't sell half of their production, you throw them out of the folk. If they don't finish a university, you'll get others in their place. The unexpended Article 56, with the compulsory dispatch at 8.00 p.m. of the quantities and prices of the products from each producer in the folk. The government tells us that it does so that people can get into e-consumer's price comparisons and choose whether they will shop cucumbers and tomatoes and peppers from the people in Ilioupoli or from Peristeri, whether they will go to Haidari or whether they will go to Panormos. In the meantime, beyond this misery of the argument, apart from the fact that it is natural for too many people to have time to do this work, to put them on extra burdens, without any effect on consumers, something, of course, that if you are a professional and have a big business, you have no problem getting an employee to do so. But these people who are producers, grow the products, pick them up, take them to the people, sell them and go back to the field, make them live unbiased for no reason. Tell us something: To Volos, where there is a folk, what will the citizen compare? What if he's going to Larissa? What will the citizen compare to any small place? In Corfu, which is not a small place - in practice it is two hundred thousand people - again what will compare? Among what peoples will he choose? It is something you do to impose difficulties on producers, without giving the citizens anything. Article 62. Clearly punishable, exterminational penalties for a number of infringements. Here again, you are exhausted your rigour on the producers. Two or three times to be found without any proof cut off, they lose everything. I will recall again last week when you brought the bill, the law today, for environmental inspectors, there the infringements are forgiven. For large enterprises, there are up to three years of compliance. Where's the compliance here? Give these citizens the right to comply. Three years to the great, two to three evidence to the poor. That's your X-ray. No fines, thirteen stages to enter fines, so that they never enter environmental offenders, and put the fines on the big ones based on their cigarette. Here, of course, it doesn't count. Heads are taken and you don't care what their condition is. It's an X-ray of this government's bill. A bill that attempts, like everything else, to concentrate. A bill such as the one he had once announced and Mr.Georgiadis, which only the small businesses that will unite, would have access to borrowing and would have denied it the other day by Mr. Skylakakis, saying that his bill eventually brings something else. But that is your spirit. The concentration of activities in a few. This is what you do with the Recovery Fund of 60 billion to the large, to make the concentration, and 1.5 billion to the small and medium-sized ones. When? When they have access to bank lending. I mean, 10 percent. The rest of the time. That's what you do with this bill. The small producers are throwing them in the cave. He's gonna stay on the paper. As you know, people close and strike. This bill is not going to go into practice. It is another sign of this government against small and micro - entrepreneurship, the self-employed, the producer, the vulnerable, the man in need.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u118	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u119	She'll stay on the paper, as well as so many more. Mera25 is wholeheartedly voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much, Mr Arseni. The list of rapporteurs and special speakers has been completed and we are now entering the circle of speakers. The first speaker is Mr Stamenitis from New Democracy and then Mr Eleftherios Avramakis from SYRIZA. Immediately after that, Mr. Clawn Gregoriadis, the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 will be given the floor. It is true that parliamentary representatives can speak after two, three colleagues who will speak. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to Mr Stamenitis, I have the honour to know in this House that Members of the Change Movement Parliament have applied for a roll-call vote at the beginning of the bill. The exact time of the roll-call vote will be announced tomorrow, with a more likely time just before the vote, that is, after the end of the debate on the bill. Mr. Stamenitis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I begin my speech, I would like to refer to the loss of Phophy Genemas that has shocked us all and to express my warmest condolences to both her physical and political family. The draft law on restructuring and modernising the institutions of the people's markets is a particularly important legislative initiative. This is a set of arrangements that come as a result of the need to change the rural trade framework. In fact, what the leadership of the Ministry of Development and Investment is trying to do is to coordinate the pluralism of the people with the new data through the use of the tools of technology and, of course, to ensure the interests of professionals, that is, producers, sellers and traders, and, on the other hand, better service of the citizens - consumers and the quality of the products available to them. A key core that remains unchanged, around which changes are being made, is the popularity of rural trade just as it began decades ago, established in the consciousness of the citizens and maintained over the years. Before, however, I move on to the contents of the draft law and to what it regulates, I would also like to stress that today we are called upon to vote on a bill which is a product of detailed and substantial dialogue with the representatives of the people. The fact is that today's text shows great, radical differences in relation to the text presented in the public consultation. We also have the commitment of the Minister, Mr Georgiadis, that they will be incorporated into the final text and the comments made at the committee meeting by both the New Democracy Parliamentary Group and the Opposition Group. If that, ladies and gentlemen, is it not proof that today's government and the leadership of the Ministry of Development and Investment hears and disgraces those directly involved in discussing all the scope for better regulation, then what in your opinion would be? Many opinions have been heard, opposing positions have been heard. Unfortunately, however, the positions criticising the draft law do not take into account either the changes or the positions and demands of the people themselves. I say this because you cannot say that companies will enter the people - we have heard it a moment ago - and it has become clear that natural persons, rural and female cooperatives are active. I hope that you do not adopt this argument, because it is empty. Now, with regard to the question of new licences, we have maintained the social criteria on which they will be granted. At the same time, the rights of the transfer of heritage have been retained for the new and existing. There is also provision for all licensees and not combined with positions, to take a position through the envisaged procedure. In the next year, the announcement of new posts will take place. It is therefore ensured that no problem arises with the existing authorisations, while in respect of the penalties provided for it it is not linked to the removal of the licence, but with the removal of a post for a certain period of time. It has been explained in detail by the rapporteur of the New Democracy, my colleague Mr Simopoulos, regarding the cases where we have a licence. I think the parameters ensure that there are no distortions. An important part of this draft law is also the provision that each licence also corresponds to a position, that will be achieved through the process of digitisation of the relevant procedure through the Integrated Informatics System of Rural Development. Many and essential are forecasts aimed at better consumer service and quality products at affordable prices, which, moreover, is the basic feature of the people's markets, for which the majority of our fellow citizens, all the social strata, chooses this type of market to do the shopping of their household. Citizens' information about prices through the obligation of sellers to put prices and quantities each morning, this is what is in place. Not to say - the opposition - that this will make it difficult for the citizens, we prevent you and say that it provides for the draft law not to apply the provision immediately, but after the adoption of a relevant ministerial decision, after the training procedures have been carried out. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, some may disagree, but they should explain to us the essence of their disagreement. SYRIZA's rapporteur told committee - he also said in plenary - that the juncture is not appropriate, that we are choosing the wrong time to make the changes and that the 2017 legislative framework fully meets the needs. What we are saying is that the right time for intervention, which will improve a sector of public life, the market and the economy, and which will work in the interests of the citizens, is always the one, is always the one here and now. Our views, as in practice, are broadly opposite. You're the ones who didn't change anything, you didn't improve anything, you didn't even reform it, obviously because you were delusional, why didn't you? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You thought about it, but there was no time! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] We are the ones who are changing, who we dare, who are correcting, who are reforming the country. And we are doing all this despite external crises and unprecedented difficulties. That is what the Ministry of Development and Investment is doing today. It streamlines, modernises, corrects and ensures the passage of people's markets in a new era at all times with respect to professionals involved in them, taking into account their proposals and positions and always with a view to continuously improving the functioning of the people and establishing a more efficient system. In this context, and with this data, I also call on you to vote in favour of this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr. Stamenitis. Mr Avramakis Eleftherios has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at the first meeting following the death and loss of the President of KINAL, Mrs Fofi Gennimata, I would also like to express my sincere and sincere condolences to her family and her companions in KINAL. Phophysic Gennamata dealt with ethos and principles and gave the difficult and unequal battle with cancer with braveness and dignity. The House today honours it, like all the parties, by tabling our grief with regard to its inappropriate loss. The bill that the government is currently bringing to bear is actually putting tombstones and effectively abolishing the framework for the operation of the people's markets as we know it. In fact, it dismantles popular markets as we knew them, an institution based on the relationship between producers, small shops and consumers. It is clear that the Government of New Democracy is aiming at an absolute concentration of economic activities in the hands of a few and the conversion of thousands of free professionals and producers into employees or seasonal workers. The government's intentions with regard to the People's Markets Legislation under discussion had appeared in its original designs, which in practice involved privatization of the public markets and the taking over of their operations by major commercial and business interests. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] These designs were cancelled due to the major reactions. This draft law, which the government proposes, may not provide for the immediate privatisation of the people's markets, but does, in the end, provide for the operation of the people's markets by means of the gradual exit from them and, subsequently, with small financial possibilities for professional retailers. Development will gradually come through this bill, which does not actually regulate the functioning of the people's markets. What you enter is a list of exterior fines for various infringements, with the main feature of highly high fines and the removal of licence in most cases. In view of the fact that there is often a lack of evidence on the people's markets, the government provides for the removal of a licence from a professional who is arrested not to have cut proof three times in one year. The reason is that since the trader in question has not cut off three times, he does so systematically, so he will lose his license. But the question that the government does not answer is why is there no such penalties provided for in any other activity and only on the people's markets? The answer is that the government is looking for ways of limiting the presence of small traders and producers from the people, so that in a second year it will be able to impose privatization on them without particular reactions. This also means the provision for the regular update of insurance and tax information, without which, once again, the licenses and positions on the people's markets will be lost. If, for some time, the professional or producer in the people cannot pay insurance contributions, he will lose his licence and will therefore lose his ability to repay his obligations in a shorter time when his turnover may be higher. There is also provision for the obligation on people to post every morning until 8.00 p.m. the prices of their products. This is a procedure that only applies to large supermarket chains, that is to say, those who carry out cigarettes over EUR 90 million and have de facto organised accounts. It is also foreseen that producers who dare and sell products to people should place at least 50% of the declared quantity of IACS there, despite the fact that no quantities, but acres and crops, are declared in the IACC. What is considered to be 50% of the crops in practice will be determined as appropriate by the audit bodies. The bill is, therefore, a bill of fines, a surge in administrative burdens and a proliferation of infringements leading to a loss of licence or position in a people. At the same time, however, it is also an attempt to transform producer licences into professional licences. This will practically lead to small producers leaving the people and replace them with professionals who will not offer their quality products to the people, but will sell the cheapest and qualitatively worst imported products. Small producers, given their inability to sell their products at good prices, to intermediaries or supermarkets will gradually be forced to leave their fields, which will be concentrated in the hands of a few. At the core of the policies that you are promoting and implementing is precisely the limitation of people who are active as freelance professionals or as family businesses in trade, in popularity, in agricultural and livestock production. You do not care that these small businesses live families who hard work have decent incomes, because you want all these householders to be employees and seasonal workers and to live with the minimum wage. I will not fail to mention that the government is asking the House to adopt a bill that does not even have a explanatory statement. It is unprecedented to discuss a bill without justifying the political reasoning of its necessity. It is also unprecedented that, with this bill, the Government is asking Parliament to grant absolute legislative right to the Minister, who, in practical terms, with all the ministerial decisions that it will adopt, will not merely regulate technical issues and implementing details, but will, on the contrary, endorse without any real barrier another bill that even defines the products that are allowed to sell on the people's markets. At least there is also a problem with the provision for the creation and operation of standard popular markets. You are building a new model of popular markets, which will operate under other rules, possibly more products than they are sold to the people so far, with the ultimate aim of degrading popular markets, as they are currently working and gradually disappearing. Instead of helping them to improve their functioning and continue to perform their role, meeting the needs of households with cheap and quality products, you are opening their eradication procedures. Indicative ending, your efforts to shape a situation where gradually they will lose all strength and voices of those active in popular markets, it is incomprehensible to predict the non-representation of collective bodies of professionals and producers in the regulatory and decisive bodies of the people's markets. Finally, indicative of the whole philosophy that governs this government is the inclusion in a bill on the people's markets of a second bill setting out a procedure for the licensing of private educational institutions. The Government in a bill on popular markets practically abolishes all licensing rules for caregivers, colleges and IEKs and allows them to operate without virtually any control or for the suitability of the buildings. The Government therefore insists on the gradual abolition of popular markets, at a time when the energy costs and prices of products in supermarkets have been extinguished. There is no need for any particular effort to understand what is intended and what this policy serves. The sure thing is that those who lose are the households, the people's bio-populators, the small producers who every day fight for a better income and have their products in popular. This bill must be rejected and a substantial consultation must be held on how to upgrade the people's market and on how to improve the position of those involved in it, with the ultimate aim of better consumer service. As our rapporteur said, this bill we in its basic direction will vote against it and it is understood that if we become a people of will, we will abolish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u124	We will give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr Gregoriadis and will be followed by Mr Constantinople, Mrs Manolakou, Mrs Athanasios, Mrs Adamopoulos, the Minister and Mr Villardos, Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution. Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much for giving me the floor, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are talking about today in Mera25 could and should be called the 'Laika markets with the order of Adoni Georgiadis' - and do not rush to say that this approach is populist, Minister - or if you prefer'milk markets of Adoi Georgiades'. If you say that to me, I will reply directly to you that we could not say anything less, since, Mr Minister, your bill regulates all the issues of the operation of the outdoor public markets - such as the granting and renewal of licences, such as the sale of goods, what will be sold there, such as their duration, duration and licences, such as the number of seats - according to your decisions, Minister. I'm not saying he's saving and good for some reason, your decisions will be wrong. I say that this is not very good for the functioning of a democratic state. And you're not an exception. This is how the government of "Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A. works". You know we're calling the government in which you're also a public limited company at the same time. It's a way. Everything depends on a man and all these people - I don't know how many you're on the Ministerial Council - they're referring to a classic pyramid authority - which is the supreme leader. This, however, does not seem to be a form, Minister, to be reminiscent of democracy. Reminds of an oligarchy or reminiscent of a monostate. And you're instead. Every minister is instead of Mr. Mitsotakis. Unfortunately, this bill still has one originality, Minister. His name is Article 67. You know her better than I do, you've legislated. In this article, the super-article - let me say - all ministerial decisions on authorisations, operation, etc. are all set out in Article 67. Of course, as always, by decision of the Minister for Development and Investment or by a joint decision of your own and the competent other ministers. Minister, all the above as you know have already caused intense reactions during the consultation of your bill with the bodies. However, your Government has chosen once again to follow its usual practice. What is the usual practice of this government? A rough glazing of the draft law, when there are reactions from society, without any substantial remedial or structural movement, and without any intention, in particular, to listen to the government's bill - and to show that it is being dismantled - the needs of workers and those employed in the people's markets. Finally, we think that your sole aim is to ensure that the people's markets are fully controlled where you, in our view, intend to introduce them into them, Mr Minister, while at the same time punishing producers for disposing, in particular, of the downgrading of the popular markets, so that, at the end, Mr Georgiadis, consumers can turn'semi-demand' - and apologise for the inappropriate expression - into the huge supermarkets. And your bill is completely held, Mr. Minister, by the memorial that the bankruptcy of our country, Greece, is responsible for the unregulated and unreasonable purchase of travellers and the non-issuing of proof to the cheese pie and to the bag. In other words, in order to understand it, and the people who are listening to us, you want to convince the Greek people that for the bankruptcy of the country, which has given us twelve years and who knows how much we will still be tyranted, that SIEMENS is not responsible for the equipment of the various ministers of the old PASOK, of the past, it is not the Vatopedi, it is not the responsibility of NOVARTIS, it is not the responsibility of the appointment of nine hundred and sixty-two thousand from New Democracy and PASOK, and until now the public, it is not the responsibility of the two-tiers, but the fraudulent planners and the non-issue of proof, ladies and gentlemen, of the bath and cheese pie. It's funny, Minister. It does not eat them, nor does it apologise for the expression. In fact, however, Minister, the main feature of your bill is that you also have these markets to be exploited by the large trading units, which so far have not been able to access. You open them up. In the bill, of course, I am appalled he found the opportunity to "lost" and "Ministry of Kyrameos", you know, the Ministry of Education, which submitted amending provisions of Law 4442/2016, which makes changes to the way private IEK, colleges, schools, schools, foreign language centres and private schools are found, i.e., in a few words, where "Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A." is trying to privatise the point - point - and Greek education. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge us all to consider together the hypocrisy and anti-population policy of the "Kyriakos Mitsotakis Anonymous" which proposes this bill at this time, Mr President, when the Greek farmers' sector is affected not only by the severeness of climate change and crisis, but by the appalling increase in fuel prices, pesticides, fertilisers, etc. Nevertheless, your government alone has one aim: to convert the producer into a professional seller, finally leaving his fields, selling imported products and finally becoming an employee of every capitalist big-timer. After all other branches, your Government is now coming to dismantle the agricultural production with exterior fines, obstacles to licensing, ministerial control. Mr Georgiadis, the government, on the one hand, states that it strongly supports free trade and, on the other, does not leave it free, as you are systematically legislating all of you - we know that Mr Mitsotakis is behind you all - and you do not leave the free market that you so defend, as you systematically legislate in favour of some of your excellent friends and supporters. It can not only be the "TERNA" that is attempting in Greece, to make it clear to you. There should be even half a competitive company on the ground. But it turns out she's the only one. I am going through, as Mr Arsenis spoke in detail about your bill, in the murder of the twenty-nine-year-old in Perama. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, at the dawn of the last Saturday, we have witnessed one of the proclaimed ones - we say in Mera25 - death, the time of which we have all watched with a tight heart and a breath in detention in recent weeks. The tragic incident is - as you know - the murder of a young eighteen years old who was shot by policemen during a pursuit that ended in Perama. The time, Minister, since you represent the government, of the announced death began to be written in early October in the center of Athens when similar persecutors of the group "DIA" were again using guns on Marne Street on October 8 and Saint Panteleimon on October 11, while on October 22 such incident occurred in Trikala. Finally, the tragic incident occurred at the dawn of October 23, with a man of eighteen years dead and a sixteen-year-old finally severely injured in the hospital. The car in which three young people were on board, Mr. Minister, as you know, received thirty-eight bullets in a residential area. While with a simple search and the most ignorant can be informed by the website of our Hellenic Police that: "Shooting of immobilisation or neutralization is prohibited, among other things, against a person who is being fleeing when they are called to undergo legal control" and while the videos that have seen the light of publicity show a terrible and incomprehensible inconsistency, Mr. Minister, between the Police Services Control Centre and the men of the DIAK Group, who are on the ground, and while the first press release of ELAS describes a reality of dreamy and completely different from the one we watch in the audiovisual evidence that is present in videos and photographs, you, Mr. Georgiadis - I am sorry to tell you today, you are Minister and I told you - rush to comment on the following. I read in writing: 'People were right to do their duty.' I think it is clear that it can also be seen as a pretext for a judicial judgement of Greek justice. In fact, almost at the same time as your statement, Minister, there was an edict of homicide against the seven police officers involved. Only a few hours after you, Minister, the other Minister, Mr. Theodorikos, the successor of Mr. Chrysochoidis to the leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection, did the following. Incidentally, we were wondering three months now what it takes in such a small country as Greece, since it has the Minister for Civil Protection, to have a Minister for Civil Protection. We understood about the murder last Saturday. Since the Minister for Civil Protection is the Minister for Protection only of the individual citizen, this emerges as Mr Theodorikos has not gone to any of the thousands of others who are in the GDR for years, but has only gone to the uniforms, a Minister for Civil Protection for the rest of us who have no uniform. That's what's coming up. So it was the last time we saw a minister visiting citizens in custody who haven't been able to explain them yet to a prosecutor and an interrogator? What did Mr. Theodorikos want to do in time? Is it, Minister, in both cases, an unambiguous attempt to create impressions? And that is at best the case, because at worst it is political interference in justice. So I say to you that, of course, as a government, we will monitor you and follow you well, but we want to ask you and demand that the police, which your government is commanding, move within the framework of legality. Once again, we express our deepest grief because we have been faced with the news of the murder of an unarmed fellow citizen of our armed forces, supposedly trained police officers. We are concerned, Minister, about the quality of our democracy. Before I leave you alone, Minister, and I will then proceed on a number of important issues, I will read you another statement you made on 20 October - it is only ten days ago - and it concerns the major issue in our country, which is the pandemic. You know very well that the pandemic has taken a very bad turn again. I read, Minister, and listen to what you said to make it calm now: 'I am personally tired. Don't you want, sir, to be vaccinated? Don't save. No more, let's go further, life goes on, whoever gets vaccinated. It's over. I can't deal with it anymore. I'm tired. There's nothing the state can do more about this. He's done it all." What disrespect for the citizens who are invasive is this, my Minister? I sincerely ask you, now that you hear that again, does this seem to you to be a good wording for a government minister? So in order to tell you exactly, do you say, with this phrase and such arguments, that you can convince even one who fears or doubts or objects to be vaccinated? He'll surely be mad at the way you talk to him and won't go even if he was going to. It won't go. Mr. Theodorikos gave the public today the wonderful areas he will do to save us from this police, which is also ineffective, as crime has hit red, but is also dangerously authoritarian and dangerous for the citizens who want to exercise their democratic rights and protest to concentrations. Mr. Theodorikos envyed the glory of Mr. Chrysochoidis in the doctrine of "law and order" and so, Minister, instead of charging responsibility to the killers, he bears responsibility and blames those who tried to prevent the crime. Why did the wonderful Mr Theodorikos decide, who will prove worse than Mr Chrysochoidis's decision? He decided that it was the Center of Direct Action and he expelled the heads. This is the craziest thing I've ever heard of in my life. Watch out. Why has the Center of Direct Action decided and instructed not to engage in pursuits in these cases for something that was hidden from your friendly media, in what you have given so many millions of dollars on the Pecha list? The fact that just two months ago a motorcyclist, who was neither stealing nor armed nor doing anything else, refused to stop on a "DIA" group's signal, persecuted him and by an unfortunate end man was killed. Since then, those who have been hired since the takeover by Mr Mitsotakis may have thought that this group 'DIA', which has twenty-five days in the worst education to four months, is not too well trained to participate in flax jumping - apologies for the expression, Mr President - and decided to do so. The Minister decided to stop those who tried to prevent - to understand it - the same crimes in the future. That's what the Center would do. What else did we learn from the Minister, supposedly, the Civilian Protection Minister? The immediate assumption, Minister, that our special guards who manage by a majority of MS, "DIA" and "DRAG" are dangerous untrained, hence you have announced special schools for the retraining of special guards. Apparently, you're ashing the eyes of the world, just as you replacate the cameras and the uniforms as something new. Can I tell you something, Minister? Mrs. Apajidis is over there looking at us all. He looks at us not personally, but as an institutional representative of Greek citizens. Mrs. Apatzides, as you will see here in these photos I will present right now, has very nice eye boxer eyes as she has blood in her eyes. Beyond Mrs. Apatzidis, minutes before she gets the nice hematomas from your special untrained powers, she talks with the MAT leaders, she tells them she's there as a political representative, an institutional politician to guarantee the avoidance of incidents. The head assures her that everything is going well and rejoices that two Members are there to avoid the difficult ones. And one minute later, while Mrs. Apatzides doesn't do anything, she's being chemicaled into her face. Then they throw an elbow in her eye. That's the result, you saw it exactly. And right after they drop her twenty-four shields. I'm filing the photos in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Claus Gregoriadis, presents for the minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We do not say this whole thing because one of our Members happened to get hit. Last year Members of the Communist Party of Greece were beaten. A week and a half ago, a man was killed, probably his only problem was that he was Roma. I'm not saying he didn't steal. Proved. The men who persecuted him didn't know he was stealing. They speculated, Minister, and that's a problem. What I would like to raise as a problem, therefore - and I will close in a minute, Mr President, and thank you for the slightest tolerance - is this. This democracy is not going well, Mr. Georgiadis. And it doesn't work out, because you guys don't let her go well. The new Minister came out, because we arrived in Nea Smyrna, that is, they beat the civilians for drinking coffee with their children and Mr Chrysochidis left. You'll tell me he didn't leave for that, he left for the fires. But he was not, as a matter of fact, responsible, Mr. Chardalias, who was rewarded for the fires, a God knows. Anyway, she's gone. Is Mr. Theodorikos here for what? So he can say they're gonna go into MAT cameras again? But, Minister, if cameras had been in, as you promised before, we would now know which man of the MATs hit our colleague. We'd know who the sworn cop is. We don't know, because you don't want the cameras to have. Why do I know you don't want to? Because also didn't discreetly have the man of MATs. Outside our House, this is where it happened. When men of MATs have not discreet and have no cameras that have been proclaimed for two years, it's obvious you don't want us to know. When an announcement of the outcome of the Golden Dawn trial, as it had expired after chemical attacks against us, again an organised parliamentary group, Mr. Varoufakis, leader of the parliamentary group, going up to Lykavitto, saw two old people throwing the MATs out of the two meters, stopped and said: "For God's sake, don't you see that they are old people and depart?" He said: 'To our...'. And when he said - because he has no boldness or is someone who wants to sell a face - that is: 'I am a congressman'. He did not say: 'I am a leader'. He said: "I am a Member of Parliament", he replied: "One more reason to put you on the table." This, Mr Georgiadis, is dangerous for all of our democracy. It's not dangerous for the Communist Party. It's not dangerous for Mera25. It's not dangerous for SYRIZA. It's just as dangerous for you. Why, as I have repeatedly said this gray morning that the forces of the axis will have in Greece - and I say it's funny, I hope it never happens, but we're close to the fact that if they didn't kill the Bridge, those powers of the axis - as shown by the recent political history, will you have handcuffs together with us, and you will say what the hell was wrong, how have we confused them and gone for a while? Because you know, we left-wingers, we stay longer, we stay a few decades in prison at the dictatorships. You stay at the beginning of a month and then go out in different ways. I don't mean you're working together, you're being arrested, that's what I said. But know that history shows that you will be arrested with us. Don't risk it any more. Finally democratise the Greek police, and above all - that is the last sentence, Mr President - now be abolished yesterday, the MATs, the MATs and the DIAIA Group. They only create problems in the country, Minister. Finally, Mr President, I should like to say about the rare woman, Fofi Gennamata, that I am expressing my personal crush and the crush of all of us in Merra 25 to Andreas, the friend, who is at the moment the only MP from her party in front of us, I am looking at him in the eye and I say to him that Fofi Gennamata was for us the political opponent we dreamed about. And it was for certain reasons the political opponent we dreamed of having. It was for the rare ethos, its pure honesty and, above all, because although it was a memorial, that is to say, the view of the rescue of our country from us, was that we believe - and we are sure - a memorial of sincerity not to fall back on the rocks. We believe that your memorials threw your homeland on the rocks, but it is a warning difference that a politician who is costing the Memorandum arc because he is also afraid of another politician, who will not mention his name, who goes to the Memorandum Arc to do business at the expense of the kneeling Greek people with the thieves of our country. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u126	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u127	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u128	I take the floor, Mr President, to reply from what my colleague, Mr Mera25 said only to my staff, which referred to the issue of the police and the incident of Perama. Why did my colleague blame me? I want your attention. He accused me, because with my post I took a stand on the incident, so I made some kind of intervention toward Greek justice. Was that, Mr. Colleague, the charge?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u129	I read your words.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u130	That's right. I didn't say you changed my words. The accusation is that, with my words, I have been able to intervene in an ongoing judicial procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u131	At best, I said you were doing a micro-political, at the worst...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u132	Question. I said this after calling murder the incident in Perama and made a full analysis that this was the forced conclusion of many previous incidents of police arbitrariness, police violence and everything else. So if I claimed that the cops were doing their job well, is that intervention or a micropolitical? What if you're condemning them as murderers? Because when you say there was a murder, there is a natural autocrat, so in this case if we have murder in Perama, then we have some natural autocrats, the seven policemen, who are guilty of murder. When you, Mr. Clonna Gregoryade, call it murder, so you condemn the seven police officers as murderers, do not make micropolitical or some kind of intervention in Greek justice? Because I speak as a Member of the Greek Parliament and Minister for Development, you speak as a parliamentary representative of a parliamentary party. So if I intervene, you and Mr. Janakopoulos who went to Perama and any other politician in active employment take a stand on the incident. So hypocrisy is superfluous. In fact, neither can I influence justice nor you. Justice is fortunately independent in Greece. After all, I've lived in this House in active SYRIZA Ministers condemning me for "NOVARTIS" when I was controlled by Greek justice for "NOVARTIS". Did they not realize that this is some kind of political competition and political tactic? Or did they expect the prosecutors and judges to listen to Paul or Tsipras?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u133	Minister, do not refer to names of some who are not in the Chamber. Answer what you want in relation to what you said...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u134	That's right. So Greek justice is independent. It is not affected by what I will say, nor by what you will say. What is actually happening is that it conflicts - and this is legitimate to some extent in democracy, so that people understand - the difference in view of the Greek police and how we want Greek society to be. We need security. We want order.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u135	Why don't we have insurance?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u136	Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u137	And to have security and order, we have to have a police force that works. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Don't all yell at each other! I heard you and I didn't say a word. Don't all yell at each other. If you want to take the floor then talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u138	We'll talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u139	But what's that, Mr. President? Five underneath, they yell. I'm coming back to close. All those last things you said, to abolish MATs, the DIA Group and all the rest, we heard them from SYRIZA in 2012-2014. We heard the same thing. SYRIZA came to power. Are the MATs abolished and I didn't know? Oh, no. So let go of the populism. There is no police on the planet without corresponding groups of MATs, because the state, according to Max Webber, has the "monopoly of state violence" to have a way of applying its decisions when some part of society is forceful. All we can talk about - and we are talking about it and it is a nice debate - is how we control this state violence and what the limits of this state violence are. But a state without state violence doesn't exist on the planet! So, Mr. Colleague, it's a nice show in Parliament, but now you're not an actor, you're a congressman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u140	What's your problem with the actors? Aren't you ashamed? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u141	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, may I have the floor for a reply?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u143	Mr Gregoriadis had asked for an intervention and Mr Theocharis, as a parliamentary representative, followed by the Minister. If you want to answer something that has been said, I will give you the floor. It is a good request to close it here. We have a bill we're talking about. There are enough speakers. Then you protest the MPs who don't take a turn and don't speak. I'm not talking to you. I am referring to all the participants throughout the Chamber. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor. Warm request to be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u144	Yeah, I'll be brief. But, Mr President, since my dear colleague, Mr Gregoriadis, spoke more about the issue of the police and the sad event in Perama, it is clear that a number of specific issues need to be raised. I think it is a good opportunity, given the announcements today, to explain precisely what is the difference of philosophy between the New Democracy, between the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Minister of Civil Protection and the Opposition which blames us. What was New Democracy and the Government doing right now? First of all, he showed direct reflexes. The question is being investigated by justice without affecting it and an immediate operational review of the actions of the police, which has been completed in a very short time, in five days, as was the case with the Minister for Civil Protection. The Greek police, then, delivered the finding. What was announced today? Five very specific measures have been announced, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, which show exactly the philosophy of the police we want: Firstly, our police must take into account international practice, other police, how they operate in order to increase its effectiveness and to be even closer to the Greek citizen. The change in its rules of procedure, therefore, by exploiting best practices, is the first of these measures. The second is human resources. Many people spoke the next day - and even I had the opportunity to be on TV with a colleague from SYRIZA - about the training of police officers and whether they are sufficient. Therefore, emphasis on human resources, emphasis on continuing education, so that we really have police officers who can deal with all the critical situations in the way they need to. Thirdly, digitisation. More supplies to our cops. There were also those voices who said that it is not possible by these material means that they have to respond adequately to the situations that we are calling on them to deal with. So digging more tools, more possibilities in the hands of the police. Fourth, transparency. [[Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] I'm hanging up with this. It's five meters.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u145	Come on, Mr. Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u146	Cameras in the police so that there can be transparency and that they can very easily examine all the incidents that public opinion wants to be examined. And finally, reorder of forces, more worlds and in the communication center, so that the incidents can be dealt with more and more effectively. We want a police more transparent, closer to the civilian, with more means, with trained police officers, a police that follows best practices. This is the police New Democracy wants, this is the police that the Greek people want.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u147	Mr Gregoriadis, you have the floor, but I would briefly ask you to continue with the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u148	I've proved that, Mr. President. Two and a half years in here, I'm the fastest of all. Mr. Theochari, I'm starting with you, and you last spoke to us. That's great. I said it on top, I don't know if you heard me. You've already announced them a year and a half ago with another minister. Because if you had done so, someone would be in prison now that he's been beaten by a Member of the Greek Parliament. Someone would be in prison now when he told a leader of a parliamentary group "one more reason to vow you... because you are a MP". Do you understand what we say or don't understand? I'm saying something very specific. You announced it. You've already announced them before, and you've had them fight. Will you ever act to know who murders people on the street? If you want to do it, do it. Dear Mr. Minister, I am exemplified by my dear colleague and friend Panos Skouliakos who you called me an actor and said that I must realize that I have changed my role and I am not an actor. I must tell you that I do not regard this as aggressive talk to me. I am very amazed that I am an actor and I am very glad that the Greek Parliament has artists. I would say that it is towards the civilization of the Greek Parliament. I answer you on the substance of your questions, Mr Minister. Don't end it. I'll be brief and I'll be done in a moment. First and foremost. The case-file formed by independent Greek justice is a case-file that refers to a homicide of intent, Minister. Secondly, I, as a parliamentary representative, am not as important an institutional factor as you who represent the government as Minister. For the pandemic, I have not heard you say a word, Minister. Looks like you don't mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u149	Now we're gonna take a second circle, Gregriadis? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u150	I'll be right over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u151	You've been talking for half an hour!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u152	Madam Colleague, 20 minutes have been spoken by your representatives and I have spoken one. Why are you exterminating?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u153	Come on, Mr. Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u154	I'll be right over. Mr. Georgiadis, I will leave you in the judgment of history, where we will be legally all at some point. Your last sentence was to'stick the masks'. We're different in that. You said for yourself: "We are of order and security." I would remind you and close, Mr President - it is the slogan of the junta, George Papadopoulos, Pattakou and Makarazos: 'Quiet, order and security'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u156	Minister, please. They expect so many MPs and parliamentarians to speak. Excuse me, this is no longer a controversy. We continue with the speakers. Mrs Diamanto Manolakos from the Communist Party of Greece, then Mrs Athanasios, Mrs Adamopoulou, and as has been said, the Minister for the Amendments and then the Greek Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u157	To continue from where you stopped, anti-popular politics and authoritarianism go hug. When they cannot convince, the repression is of course being used. That's right here in the bill. The outdoor shops on the people's markets what is it? Each one nourishes a family. And in the pandemic period there is a reduction in income from Lockdowns and the limitation on working days, while any compensation was inappropriate and did not make up for the great economic mess. And today with the great accuracy of the rapid increase in energy prices, the cost is high and the cut-off and uncertain. However, the benches, the outdoor shops, have always been in the eye of the bourgeois state to gather in a few sums of money that will have employees - slaves without rights. You have not yet managed to pass it as a whole because of the persistent struggle between professionals and producers of popular markets. But with this bill, you go for a step. That's why such an outcry. You are getting to the point where you are taking measures for changes that will not even pass by the House. Isn't that an autocracy? It is, of course, authoritarianism and you show it at every opportunity, from Perama to the murder of young Roma, to the pre-concentration of my colleague from Mera25. So here in this bill is also expressed. Why? Because it is as if there is no bill, since Article 67 empowers the Minister for Development whenever he wants, without giving any account or information, with simple ministerial decisions to amend almost all of this bill. Whatever we vote on can change it. The other provisions are also in a reactionary direction, namely loopholes in the survival of laikazes. First, the licence remains personal. But in part. Because after five years candidate producers and professionals have had to take part in the regional notice in which they will want to act. Secondly, on moleculosis, while social criteria remain, they are mocked up and a new criterion is added, the title of studies is added. Thus, thousands of professionals who do not have a degree are pushed out and in a more difficult position. This is the process that completely overthrows the existing situation that has been shaped for decades now, which wanted authorisations to be given to poorer populace departments. The most recent social criteria in the licensing procedure are thus abolished. Therefore, what is excluded from the ‘door’ comes all through the ‘window’. Thirdly, the government reappoints the management of the people's markets to the regions and municipalities, which will create legal entities. In other words, private entities, companies for cleaning, keeping, etc., to meet operating needs of different kinds. Fourthly, the controls are stricter. In other words, a seller cannot renew his licence if he does not have tax, insurance or has not secured the management body. For example, a retailer may be expelled from the public market for up to three tax violations. So, what's the sentence? He's closing his outdoors. He won't let him live. Is that a rulership? For big businessmen, however, you don't have such penalties. That's your class policy. At this stage and given that producers and sellers have been left with no income for months, it is doubtful how many and who will be able to renew their licenses. There is also provision for expulsion from the people's market to sellers if it has not sold more than 50% of the goods it has declared or is arrested for tax infringements. Furthermore, it remains the penalty for losing the post for sellers who have not paid for two consecutive months the management body. These, however, do not apply to any other industry and to housed shops. Therefore, you invent measures to reduce the number of self-employed microprofessionals. They're the ones you're chasing. In conclusion, therefore, the new framework you are proposing is in a negative direction. It abolishes the remaining elements of the protection of self-employed persons guaranteed by the system of extension of licences and frees the possibility of business action on the basis of market rules. Thousands of self-employed people with lower incomes on the public market, producers and professionals, will lead to generalised insecurity and unemployment. And, of course, these will also be reflected in prices, i.e. in popular consumption, since the people's markets ensure direct access to food products at affordable prices, without the intermediary wholesalers. We are, however, defending this character and we are opposed to the changes that have been promoted. At the same time we support the people's markets, to be active and to sell other species while maintaining the social criteria that have been applied so far to obtain the licence. That is why we are voting against and request that it be withdrawn. It is another blow, especially at this time when economic problems have increased from the precision that is cracking.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u158	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u159	Finally, we call on professionals and producers to fight, even if this is voted on, to stay on paper, as workers in e-food with the Hatzidakis law have achieved. And they continue hundreds of unions, federations, labour centers with a pan-Hellenic rally and strike on November 4th. They have every reason to participate massively, especially after the employers' crime of the 40-year-old port worker in the 'COSCO' ghetto, which demonstrates that there must be a class response. Because in the face of their profits they do not calculate the protection and safety of human life. The solution and hope is conflict and overthrow the power of capital and the rulers who support it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u160	Mrs Athanasios has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. I will start my comment on the bill we are debating today by making a connection with the European anti-cancer plan, namely the action that the European Union is promoting under the name 'From the farm to the plate'. This is a clear urge for everyone to adopt eating habits rich in fruit and vegetables. This could certainly also push our young people into the consumption of seasonal food products, but the most important thing to do in the interests of domestic rural development and the primary sector, which the Greek Solution has been calling for so long so that everyone can learn to feed properly, but also at the same time Greek. Do you intend, however, to support farmers financially by providing them, for example, with specific prices in the water they need for their crops or oil for their machinery or any other facility provided? Will the competent services of the Ministry of Rural Development have an advisory and enhancement for growers of a character or will imports of vegetable products from Turkey and Bulgaria continue at an opportunity price, but with questionable conditions of cultivation? Will the controls relating to the use of pesticides in horticultural products be tightened to reduce imports and so domestic products become competitive in price and quality, but also to increase our exports? Given the economic inadequacy that follows as a result of inappropriate and mismanagement of the pandemic on your part, ladies and gentlemen of the government, after the incomes of the middle family are reduced as the first need for goods is constantly growing, energy is also increasing, the state should, if it wants to be called not just social but also, actively support rural families. How do you intend to fight their anxiety, the anxiety of their daily survival? How did you support the producers with the inexpensive lockdowns dramatically reduced their income and may some of them lose their roof? What do you intend to do? Colleagues, the producers after the pandemic, after the very severe weather phenomena, after 2021 which could be defined as the most devastating year for production, the last they expected was a series of fines, a series of revocation provisions and a change in the definition of the license of the people. Finally, a purely agricultural register was set up to protect professional farmers adequately. Are you really asking for computers into people who are waiting to go to two or three at noon when prices have fallen? What's the computer gonna write? Or is it going to make a price comparison and quality control? Do you ask for computers in popular markets when even in large shopping centres there are difficulties? Why do you bring such provisions? With the application e-Consumer we put in a process of suffering people of hardship. For years now, there has been an interpersonal relationship between consumers and producers of the people's markets. The consumer will do his bazaar to get the information he needs in relation to the products, he will chat. Even during the period of COVID, incarceration, people's markets in psychology played an important role. It was an outlet. It was an exit. Now why are you doing all this? Maybe to slowly bring large commercial companies with their employees? Therefore, there is appropriateness in the interest of the mighty. But the producers and the small traders will actually condemn you for your unfair practices that rape their efforts, rape their fracture. Once again the Minister has a concentration of powers in terms of species, the way, the quantity. In other words, the Minister will decide to revise some previous articles. It is incomprehensible, gentlemen, to concentrate on one person such unrelenting overpower for decisions that are so serious. You now want outdoor shopping malls. The goal and philosophy of the people are lost. As the big supermarkets were affected, the baker, manaves, butchers, fisherman, and so forth, will happen. Real farmers will be forced to be displaced with this bill. They'll infiltrate purely professionals, marginalizing them. It is worth noting that there will also be more imports of land products and this will be irreparablely affected by Greek agricultural production. Who will control these professionals that they will support Greek domestic production? Who will control them if the products are indeed Greek and not baptized Greek? Have you developed such control mechanisms? Or are we going to eat Greek products imported from Turkey? The aim of each fair state is also to protect the small landowner. Referring to some articles, I will be primarily in Article 3 on a licensed seller's market for the manufacture and sale of ready-to-eat food and beverage. Drinks will be alcoholics, i.e. they will be able to be purchased even by a minor. Not only is this practice the worst example for young ages, but it contradicts and contrasts with the spirit of the National Plan Stavros Doxiadis of the Ministry of Health with regard to actions to combat alcohol use by minors. And I ask here: is there a central design? Is there any consultation between ministries or any ministry setting up its programme independently and so open loopholes that allow the appeal of newly enacted provisions? Article 26 does not provide for the establishment of legal persons in all the regions of the country by setting up administrative boards which ensure the participation of representatives of the federations of producers and professionals. In Article 32 on standard popular markets, we do not agree to separate the standard people's markets from the people's markets. This institution leads essentially to the diversification of the markets themselves. In accordance with Rule 41(2) of the Rules of Procedure, 2 The elderly will rise in the morning to enter the laptop first, to see what are the best prices of products on the popular markets, and the producer on the other hand will have to put the iron pilgrims in order to make a stand and, at the same time, send in the rain the mail with knowledge that is not sure it holds. Unless he's got to hire a computer. Really? The reality itself will disprove you. Art. 56 (p. 4 establishes the transmission of data to the e-consumer platform every morning, i.e. the quantities, the quality and the starting price from both producers and professionals, while this obligation is burdened by the supermarkets that have accounts and make a turnover of more than EUR 90 million. To conclude, this bill is a bill that will cause a shock in outdoor trade. This draft law does not correct any of the existing problems, instead it creates additional issues. What we have stressed is an amendment so that there can be a safeguard against the nature of the people's market, so that the people's markets will not lose their philosophy and families will not lose the freshness of seasonal products at low prices at times of major economic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u162	Mrs Adamopoulou Angeliki from Mera25 has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. I too would like to make a very small reference to the murder in Perama, of the unacceptable pre-contrast of Mrs Apatzides. I note here the announcements made about the police and that certain limits should be set on police arbitrage. When I said this last year that measures must be taken on democratisation and education, the education of the police, the government, together with a few MPs from a particular opposition party, has rushed to vote on the lifting of my immunity. Well, when I said this, where were you, gentlemen of the government? Because I also spoke about the need for democratisation and the need for discipline. Now you remember? Did this incident have to be done, did a man have to be murdered to get us to talk about such measures? So I say all this, and following on from the petitions made by our Parliamentary spokesman on the case with Mr Varoufakis, on the pre-contrastness of the JRC Members, the reports made by Mrs Manolakos from the JRC and I thank her personally for having referred to the lifting of my immunity. At last, therefore, these measures must be taken. And I'm going to the bill. We are therefore discussing a bill today on popular markets. People's markets are not a mere consumer habit. It's a hundred years old for Greek society. The bazaar, as is said elsewhere, is a tradition that supports the Greek consumer and the Greek society with good quality products at very reasonable prices and fresh products. It is a tradition that has grown between the Greek consumer and the producer. A relationship of confidence, which is based on human contact above all because it is livelihood, has its own dynamic, has its own logic and methodology, is flexible, it has nothing to do with the coldness that we see in modern market models. That logic, however, and the methodology seems to be that you, gentlemen of the government, ignore it and I will mention the following examples from the arrangements provided for in your bill. First of all, what does it predict? It obliges sellers of wild rugs, before the sale begins, to register in an electronic system the prices and quantities of available products before the sale begins. And it is truly questionable how these people will become acquainted with an electronic system in order to effectively and successfully register the prices and quantities of available products and, at the same time, at the dawn, when every day it is a fact that they are active in a different popular market. And look at what else you're causing them. You obligate these people from very early in the morning before they start, from the dawns that have to go so far, how long, to unleavened, another hour to set up the bench, in this process they must make registrations for twenty, thirty and forty products. And the question is: What's the point in all these postings? And you are so disfellowshipped from the Greek society and the reality of the popular markets that you do not know that especially in times of crisis, products do not stay stable during the day, the prices vary, and that at noon, they are especially dazzling the movement on the people's markets so that producers do not have to carry back the vulnerable products to take them out at their destination place where they will be too late in the evening? And what is the point of posting this morning - as I said - when prices change? For example, will a Cesarean resident enter too early to see that the price of the tomato on the New Ionian people's market is cheaper and will his car travel so far, consume how much petrol, how much oil, just to get the tomato cheaper, when prices are fluctuating and changing by noon? Indeed, these measures are unresolved and we wonder on what logic it is based on the fact that you consider them to be beneficial. What else is predicted? You are releasing the licenses in the countryside, and even you are setting the criterion of being a holder of a higher education degree. We're really wondering if that's serious. So what need serves to be a degree holder? Will it be a librarian graduate and will - for example, I say - have more standard qualifications to sell the artichoke on the popular market than the producer himself, rather than the grower himself?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u164	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u165	Mr. Comrade, please don't interrupt me. You can then say what you want. What science or art with circular university-level requirements is necessary in the field of the popular market? What are you doing, of course? You introduce legal persons who will have the responsibility for supervising and operating the people's markets, because in this way you want to hand over the people's markets to private monopolies and, of course, the producer's licenses, you turn them into sales permits to displace the producers themselves from the people's markets. What else are you doing? To reapprove the position so that it has a right to planetary activity, you are obliging him to sell 50% of the quantity declared to the IACC. In other words, at any time, during a period of rescheduling, in addition to reducing their income, the professionals will be in danger of losing their licence, which was even reduced, low incomes. So you apply the logic of social arsonism wherever you can, by playing with the people of the ferry and by imposing your punishing hand with disproportionate and ruthless fines. And the cherry on the cake, of course, are the authorizing provisions. In other words, on the one hand we have a bill 'a' for the formalistics you bring in in the fireworks, and on the other hand we have a bill 'b' under Article 67 with the sixteen different and joint ministerial decisions with the Minister of Development, which will be called upon to decide on essential matters without being accountable to any House. At the moment we have a bill that does not answer very critical questions about how people's markets will operate - the Minister will obviously answer us - without any consultation, without any correspondence and without any public dialogue at all. So I conclude by saying that it is truly regrettable how you afflict and degrade the legislative process by transposing anti-constitutional and anti-institutional powers of a substantial legislator to the government, to the Ministers. For for you, the government legislates, the executive power does not legislate and the House does not legislate. This practice is followed by a decision that you have taken which is deeply undemocratic opaque, it is an abusive decision following the opacity of course that you are applying more generally, as with direct awards, a logic that I have made and personally from the Step of the House because you obviously think you are interpreting things as you want without being accounted for, without giving account to anyone why the public thinks it belongs to you. The people will not forgive you for this irresponsible political time too. At the time of the crisis, at the time of the elections, it will not give you forgiveness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u166	We will give the floor to the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr. Villardos. Then will Mrs Anna Karamanlis from New Democracy, and then the Minister, who had asked for the floor before Mr Villardo, simply transferred his speech after Mrs Karamanlis. And then we keep up with the list. After the Minister, it's you, Mrs. Anagnostopoulou. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u167	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's draft law concerns the people's markets, a strong sector in our economy which has strongly supported society, our region and our primary sector. Sadly, however, it seems that this sector is also placed in the Profrust bed of the great interests, such as energy, previously, with the catastrophic results that we are experiencing today. In this respect, however, the reform is not about deregulation in the usual practice of the troika bills, enhanced supervision - as is called today and in future it will be even stronger - but about increasing bureaucracy to strangle small professionals and concentrating the market on a few. Our conclusion is that this draft law does not refer to assessments, such as almost all of them, and we recall that the troika has always been against closed professions such as private education by means of the notification of No 4442/2016, which it requested in the 11th assessment and was included in this article, in Article 71. So this is clearly an initiative from the Ministry. So we reasonably wonder who promotes it and who benefits. As far as the orderly account is concerned, while efforts are being made to support small producers who do not have access to the people, it is certainly a waste, as it appeared from the responses of the operators that there is no problem with the people and there was no need for any bill at all. The bodies have, however, mentioned their requests which we consider perfectly reasonable by submitting them to the Minutes, as we will then say. Further, the people's markets should be considered in relation to the more general theme of our primary sector in which we as Greek Solution have devoted a large part of our five hundred-page programme to achieving the sustainable development of our country and its food adequacy by proposing, among other things, the establishment of auctions and core milk markets as is the case in the rest of the developed Europe. Unfortunately, however, the government has completely ignored the primary sector and the support packages for the pandemic, strengthening it with just EUR 183 million, when it spent a total of EUR 42.3 billion. I would stress that, just with EUR 183 million, that is, 0.0 something, when it spent a total of EUR 42.3 billion, against another EUR 42.7 billion, because the Minister always says different numbers. However, if it had been properly supported, we would have much higher production and lower prices today, at a time when the appreciations are out of control and probably not transient. By the way, how is it possible for a liberal government - in effect a liberal government - to refer to state price control and valuation? Is it not the job of the Committee on Competition in a free economy to ensure the low prices and the proper functioning of the market, that is, by combating the dozens of cartels that suck off Greek citizens? Continuingly, it is extremely important for people's markets to exist as an alternative distribution network, but noting that their market share has decreased over the pandemic period, especially in fruit and vegetables to 40% from 60% previously. He was therefore the big loser without relying on it, when the turnover of supermarkets increased by 9.7%, in 2020, to 11.3 billion euros. The three largest chains, which are also among the strongest companies in Greece, have two thirds of this turnover, which is very dangerous since they control small producers and impose their conditions on the consumer, suppliers and their employees. Especially in an environment of reduced banking, such as Greece's environment, at the most expensive interest rates in the European Union - at the European Central Bank - and at a number of other charges. In this respect, therefore, the Ministry of Development should have to deal with it, in addition to supporting the people's markets that support competition, not with draft laws, such as the current one that seeks precisely the opposite, and which, of course, must be withdrawn. It is populism that the Minister promotes the e-consumer platform and the people, for price control, when he knows that in popular prices, prices change according to supply and demand within a few hours, making the best example of a free economy. It should also address the issue of the Athens Central Vegetable Market, which runs thirty-thousand producers' products, supplying twenty-five thousand businesses, where we have proposed, with a timely question, that it be transported to another place so that it is clear - I stress it - clean - and functional as well as decongested from the thousands of trucks on the national road to and within it. Unfortunately, however, the OECD, the Athens Central Market Agency, which controls, among other things, the fish auctions of Kavala and Alexandroupolis, which are snailing, literally snailing, belongs - like almost all in our country - to the excess of foreigners. Everything has been transferred to the supreme foreign office. To an organization that does what it wants and that did not agree in 2018 nor even to the acquisition of the vegetable market by the cooperative of a hundred and eighty of a trader and a hundred and sixty companies that operate there. They wanted to buy it, and they weren't allowed. The Ministry would also have to deal with the literally huge deficits of our trade balance due to the non-competitiveness of our economy, while in conjunction with our also deficit current account deficit increases our corporate debt, which from about 400 billion dollars in 2018 was launched at 526.5 billion in July 2021, according to data from the Bank of Greece. Within less than three years, that is, our foreign debts increased by $126 billion. The amount is huge, $126 billion in less than three years. Which means the government has completely lost control of our economy. An economy that does not produce, but introduces isn't a felony of international conditions? How rather of a country of zombies, as the highly indebted states that survive only at artificially low rates and at the low wages of their employees. Furthermore, the Minister invoked in this legislation the large number of traders instead of producers, claiming to want to protect small producers from traders. She really asked them? On the other hand, does he have anything against small dealers, or is the goal of shutting down so that supermarkets don't compete? It is also interesting that the bill deals with fairs and fairs under Article 40. Does he need a class here too? Does the government have a problem with Greek traditions? Apart from giving a job to many people, they are extremely important to the small communities while having a large turnover that the ADP of lenders has been interested in since the first moment, as we will testify in the Minutes. Really, have the strangers imposed this article? If, now, the whole legislation is aimed at collecting more taxes, we will mention as an example the United States, in which IRS is certainly not interested in such cases of outdoor and short-term markets, it does not oblige them to have cash machines and electronic transactions while it does not charge them with excessive bureaucratic burdens. It does, then, the self-evident thing which we in Greece seem to be unable to understand. Why do we want to work differently in relation to the United States, but also with the other countries? The people's markets have been found by the government to combat tax evasion? Truly, did the Ministry not say the same thing with the law that it adopted on the paramilitary and DIAMEA, which, as we will be tabling in the Minutes, carried out in two weeks only two hundred eighteen audits, imposing fines of EUR 13,250 when the trade is estimated at EUR 15 to 20 billion a year and the government's revenue foregone from EUR 3 to EUR 4 billion? Has he checked what is happening to the Port Authority of Piraeus, in the PPA, where Article 33 excludes short-term markets organised within it from this framework? Does he know what's going on with the PPA in Naples and the smuggling? Is the people the problem? Isn't that the Lagard list or the Panama Papers, which ADP did almost nothing? Isn't that the smuggling of fuel that we all know its starting point? Why so enthusiastic about micro-enterprises? In closing with the country's economy, as we have repeatedly noted, the fiscal measures that the Greek Government has already launched or committed to spending for the period of the pandemic 2020 to 2022 with borrowers of course - we must never forget it, it is in credit - are far the highest in all countries, even from Germany, of course, in proportion to GDP. In particular, according to the revised tables drawn up by the IMF recently on the basis of budgetary measures for 2020, it was 17.5%, as we will present in the Minutes. So Greece has had one of the greatest increases in public debt in the European Union, despite the fact that it is far the most indebted. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall also use the time of my dentistry. Furthermore, in addition to the budgetary measures relating to State expenditure on pandemic plus expiration revenues, the Government has launched additional measures to strengthen liquidity, such as loans. However, the 2020 recession of the Greek economy was the second largest of the European Union, as we will also present in the Minutes, 9% after ELSTAT's revised figures from 8.2% previously and despite its alchemy in the previous revisions. Minister, it's not so nice to have turned your back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u168	Minister, you're sounding already. The Parliamentary Representative of a Parliamentary Group speaks. The Minister comes to discuss something with you, his right, turns his back to the Bureau, to the speaker, and goes on and on and on and on and on, loud, harassing the speaker. Mr. Villardo, I'm sorry to interrupt, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u169	It's okay. Thank you very much, Mr President. I will repeat that the 2020 recession was the second largest of the European Union, as we will present in the Minutes, 9% after the revised figures of ELSTAT from 8.2% previously and despite its alchemy - literally, alchemy - in the previous revisions. How it is now possible for a country with Europe's largest public and red debt to waste so much money on credit, more of all the other countries, in addition to the poor management of the crisis with uncompromising lockdowns, is certainly incomprehensible, reminding the period 2004-2009 of the same government or the "lift" of George Papandreou. We hope, however, that, although we are unfortunately afraid of the opposite, there will be no exchanges for borrowings, such as the extension of EUR 95 billion in 2018 - we must not forget it - against the delivery of the name of Macedonia. Finally, what the government should, at least, do is support the Greeks in terms of accuracy and the energy crisis, stop mocking them, wherever and as it may be, as if they were aimed at completely foolish and not Greek citizens. Amongst other things, we must immediately increase the supply of electricity by operating in full capacity our lignite plants, such as many other countries in Europe, until it finds at least a reliable alternative energy source that is not dependent on imports. However, the solution in the short term is not only a reduction in VAT on the main foods and the Special Fuel Tax on energy, but rather a reduction in public revenues - we are always careful about the figures - since it will simply not receive the extra amount corresponding to the price rise. In simple terms, when a product costs 10 euros and tax is 10%, then the public receives 1 euro. But when the price of the same product rises to EUR 15 and the public continues to collect 10% of the tax, then its revenues will be EUR 1.5. So in order to continue to collect the euro's public debt, it should reduce the tax in this case from 10% to 6.6%, which on the one hand would support consumers without losing anything on the other, on the other, would reduce prices by combating inflation. In this respect, we hope that the government does not support the statement that the reduction in excise duties will increase inflation, since the very opposite is true. Especially as far as PPC is concerned, its share today costs around EUR 9, while about two years ago it had reached EUR 1.30 and that is why the government triumphantly triumphs. PPC, however, belongs to the extraterritorial office of the foreigners at the GOI, which is a subsidiary of the superstition, and to various other micro-investors, which means that any price increase benefits only them. When the price of PPC’s share rises, it only benefits its owners. On the contrary, what matters to Greek citizens and Greek businesses is not the price of the share, but the cost of electricity, since that was the reason for its initial establishment. However, as the lignites stopped, having actually turned into a wholesale importing company with imports even from Turkey, it ceased to produce. Thus, on 19 October the wholesale electricity price in Greece was EUR 253,33, MWh, when in Germany it cost EUR 153,46. It cost 253 in Greece, 153 in Germany! The next day MWh of electricity opened in Greece at EUR 228, while in Poland at EUR 80 and in Germany at EUR 60. These two countries are using the lignite in full. They don't have any other secrets. They're just using the lignite in full. Greece is not. Doesn't the government's top mistake appear clearly with the lockdowns? How can our businesses thus compete with German and how can our households survive? With subsidies? With loan? The account of the foolishness of liberation has come and is extremely expensive, and the solution is no more than the one we have proposed above. In conclusion, we will again emphasise that it is best for our country to withdraw today's bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u170	Mrs Anna Karamanlis has the floor from New Democracy, and after Mrs Karamanlis, the Minister will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech on the bill, I would like as President of the Commission on Equality, Youth and Human Rights, but also as a woman to testify my grief for the inappropriate migration of Phophysic Gennamata, a great woman who deepened her print in women's struggles for equality, justice and dignity. To her family and her associates, I hope her life’s attitude is comforted. The draft law that we are debating today enhances the people's markets, promotes transparency and healthy competition in their operation. You are accusing us of wanting to abolish the people's markets because, as far as I am concerned, the New Democracy has no contact with the people, it is not allegedly representing the people's interests. So tell us, are you ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, who, as you say, are you with the people, in what article of the bill provides for the abolition of the people's markets? I'm absolutely sure you won't find an article. Who supports people's interests is seen by his actions and not by the words - fireworks. Do you think they were working well in the people's markets, that the existing situation should not be improved? You yourself told the committees that there was a problem of tax evasion and illegal product trafficking. And what did you do when you were government? Nothing. We don't stay in the words, in the voices and in the various chips. We're doing things. When the pandemic started, we left open people's markets, because we believe they should work without interruption, so that people can find cheap and quality products and traders and producers will not lose their incomes. It is clear, then, that the government supports the people's markets by means of acts rather than words. You also claim that we want to give the people's markets to the large chains of private companies. What article of the bill does that provide for? Is it possible to cause such confusion? It is not a political exercise to disorientate and distort reality. We, unlike you, have a policy, find solutions to the problems. You tell us that the application of e-Consumer to the people's markets cannot be implemented and that it will make it difficult for workers to live in them. Are you really that underestimating the workers on the people's markets? Are you judging by you, who consider yourself to be representatives of the people's strata as unrelated to digital technology and backwards? These are, therefore, people who love progress and development and want to improve their workplace. The goal of e-Consumer is for the consumer to be able to find the cheapest price for the product he is interested in at a distance from home. Already today, they are using two hundred thousand citizens. These two hundred thousand citizens find cheap products and that is how they actually earn money. This application is in the interest of the consumer and healthy trade. So why not extend it to the people's markets too? Are you questioning the fact that only benefits can arise from the extension of this application? Do you forget about the manuscript you handed us over and how the price press releases came out, randomly and without knowledge? Now, once we open our phone, in real time we can see prices in our area for products that are of interest and choose the cheapest. So why should this not be possible for people's markets too? The system is not complicated, it does not require special equipment. Everything can be done through the mobile to serve the consumer for a healthy competitive environment. You are accusing us that the declarations of positions are made to exclude some of the people's markets. But why is that kind of populism really? Do you really think the existing regime is better? Do you not want the people's markets to operate transparently, with the rules of parity and in the context of healthy competition? No one's gonna lose their job, no one's gonna lose their job, and no one's gonna lose their job, of course. Even the one who loses molecules in popular markets that are of particular interest will be able to go to a adjoining people's market. We support workers in the people's markets. We're not leaving anyone outside. However, from you we are still waiting for your proposal on molecules criteria. There is also talk of severe penalties, withdrawals of licences, etc. Why are you trying to mislead the world? The only case that has been removed for one year is when the worker on the public market - although obliged - does not have a cash machine. Tell us, do you find that bad? You don't want to stop the tax evasion? For the first time, all forms of organised outdoor markets are recorded electronically in the integrated information system ‘COMMUNICATION MARKET’. The framework for the operation of the people's markets is still being actively modernised and streamlined. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a bill that supports and protects producers, creating a clear working framework by abolishing the grey areas. We don't have bumps as government. The Minister has adopted your proposals to the bill we are discussing. Moreover, with an explicit reference to the bill, the duration of the permits for sellers is five years, the compulsory disclosure of vacancies on popular markets will take place twice a year and not once, it is clarified that 50% of the quantity that a producer must place on the popular markets will be calculated on the basis of his statement of what he wants to sell. Those producers who are licensed and do not have a seat will have space without, of course, entering the process of opening new positions. Temporary withdrawal of a post will be necessary if, after three different checks a year, it is found that no evidence is issued. Easter markets will last thirty days instead of fifteen. The Act will enter into force on 1 February 2022, so that there is time to prepare all stakeholders appropriately. This is a bill that serves all of us who are shopping from the people's markets, producers and traders. It introduces transparency in the functioning of the markets, implements healthy competition rules, clears the procedures, and, on the one hand, it will know who is what, on the other hand, anyone who wants to work in the public markets will know the context beforehand and how it will have its products. The clear solutions are also the ones that establish confidence. Neither will the large private companies come to set up benches, nor will producers and microprofessionals be expelled. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis once again modernises, corrects bad texts, introduces best practices for transparency and healthy competition in the markets for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mrs Karamanlis. We shall now give the floor to the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Georgiadis. Before the Minister comes to Stepma, a briefing of the colleagues. On the basis of the time we have set for today's sitting, we are going - for the list of speakers, about thirty, that is to say the third circle of speakers. I'm saying this to schedule everyone you're expecting. Now the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u173	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let me just say that I will be speaking on the bill and also on the ministerial amendments which concern me and which have been tabled so that it is known in this House and that if you have any questions on them, I can answer them during the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, parliamentary dialogue is of value when it is done with a honesty and on the basis of real arguments on the subject and not in general for everyone to make a show of some kind. Before I referred to your status as an actor, Mr Gregoriadis, I did not mention it degradingly. I mentioned this in the sense that we are not playing a role here, but we are parliamentarians. Of course, the actors are absolutely worthy of their profession and decent. Why am I making this report? I have heard the SYRIZA rapporteur - and other colleagues, of course - who said that the bill is full of penalties and so on. And stuff like that. Article 31. ‘The imposition of sanctions on operators in cases of breach of its provisions. Sanctions may be a simple recommendation to comply, a fine of up to EUR 1 000, a withdrawal of the authorisation by one month in agreement with the Committees referred to in Article 28, the penalties relating to infringements of the Rules of Procedure are laid down. Sanctions shall be imposed by a decision of the operator either at the request of the Committee if the entity chooses to refer the matter to it or without its recommendation. In addition, the committees may recommend to the operator the imposition of penalties for infringements of the Rules of Procedure, etc..’; Article 55. ‘If within one year it was found that the citizen has been subject to the same law infringement, the fine is double. If the provisional withdrawal of a licence is initially provided for, it shall, in the event of a repetition of the infringement, be subject to the definitive withdrawal of the licence irrespective of the time when the repetitive infringement is committed. The licence shall be temporarily withdrawn for six months if, within two years of any infringement of the law, the beneficiary has been subject to any infringement of the law for more than four times. If it has been subject to two years in four infringements, the department which has entered and confirmed the last infringement shall inform the beneficiary in writing of the consequences of the additional infringement.’; All of what I read to you and as you see several more cases of withdrawal of permission from this bill are the ones that applied to the law of SYRIZA. So, if you'll excuse me, you're coming here, you're making a review of how draconian the bill is because it removes permission when in your own law the removal of the licence is done in many more articles for more infringements. This cannot be a normal parliamentary dialogue, you guys. A normal parliamentary dialogue must say: 'We had these violations, that is what we believe is right, you have these infringements, now see who is right and whether it is going through more or less'. The "actual law which affects producers who want to destroy them, who wants to shut them down the people's" what makes sense when you have passed this law? SYRIZA's main rapporteur was quoted in his letter with a very narrow voice. But the letter from HSY is not against the bill as a whole. On the contrary, within the hearing of the bodies, as you remember, Mr. Haris Pafantidis spoke on behalf of the Attica region and said more than ten times that he supported the bill. The only issue to which the EIA refers, namely Mr Djijkostas and Mr Patulis, because these two are only about, is the establishment of the legal person. Nothing else. Question: In the law of the SYRIZA that you voted on, did you choose to establish a legal person? No, it's the answer. Should the HSY be right and should there be the legal person, should there not be a SYRIZA too? Why didn't you vote for it? So, I repeat, it's almost comedy for something that you yourself, when you legislated, do not do it, blame me today. And I repeat, the EIA only referred to this. In principle, it is ‘in favour’ of the bill. You said that 80% of those who came from the representatives of the people's markets were against the bill. Absolutely false. As far as producers' traders are concerned, they were represented by Mr. Mullatos and spoke bisy about the bill. The piece of dealers, i.e., is in 100%'super'. As far as producers are concerned, where we remember that we had a number of fifteen different federations, there were indeed many federations negative, not all of them, but as you will see in the minutes, and Mr Deretzis and Mr Moschos do not turn against the bill as a whole, but on two specific things: one in the article on the possibility of a producer saying that he is a trader within a period of one month and the other on the opening of the posts. For the rest of the bill, it was finally "in favor" and those who spoke against it. Why? Because, ladies and gentlemen, I am now referring to the Members of the New Democracy - you are better aware of the fact that from the original draft that was posted in the public consultation in this draft that we are voting on today, can one blame this political leadership for not having its ears open and trying to improve the bill as much as possible - I will say it publicly - by listening to the recommendations and remarks of the New Democracy colleagues? And Mr Andrianos made comments that were received and Mr Simopoulos the rapporteur made comments which were accepted and Mr Vassiliadis made comments that were received and also my friend Miltos made comments that were accepted and many others. And Mr Harakopoulos made very many remarks within the committee, which were accepted and all colleagues in the House in general have actually heard as much as possible. So to blame the current political leadership for not changing the bill and that it is, say, committed, that is unacceptable. Secondly, what is the other point of criticism to which most of my fellow Members have stood? In Article 67, there are too many ministerial decisions. I have heard about this article by different colleagues, from the SYRIZA rapporteur to too many others, who accuse and say why they are doing this. You are surely aware that under the rules of good legislation, regulatory acts are regulated by ministerial decisions. This is not the case in this bill. This is now happening in all the bills, because this is how the committee responsible has recommended the good legislation to be adopted. In other words, regulatory acts do not have the strength of the law, which wants law to change, but are the product of a ministerial decision to be more flexible. It's not my mood to have superpowers. I have heard the Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 that it is the bill - it says - "Adoni Georgiadis." Excuse me, has Adonis Georgiadis always been Minister for Development in Greece? No one else has become Minister of Development in Greece? The bill is not Adoni Georgiadis, it is the Development Minister, always with the Ministers responsible for each ministerial decision. You keep telling me about the products. You mentioned it. But is that not a ministerial decision along with the co-authorised Minister for Rural Development, precisely so that we can have transparency and efficiency? Now, what else is the charge we've heard? We have heard very much from many colleagues that the bill - it says - coincides with the period of accuracy and, therefore, it is a very unfortunate time - now that this bill comes in. Firstly and above all, we claim - and you will find out why - that the bill will combat accuracy, in so far as such a bill can be done. We do not expect to solve the problems of global inflation. In any case, however, we have started the bill on February 1, 2022. Why do we put on February 1, 2022? To give time to adapt the regions, the municipalities, i.e. the people's market organisations provided for in the bill. As regards the major issue that has made such a fuss about implementation, i.e. the obligation to post prices to the e-consumer, this will be settled by ministerial decision. I have committed that there will be dialogue in this ministerial decision and we will take into account the characteristics of the province. And we've predicted that in all the conversation we've done. Because our goal with the application of e-consumer is not to harm anyone, neither producer nor trader. Our aim is to combat accuracy. How do you combat accuracy in so far as this relates to people's markets? I repeat, it will not solve the accuracy of the e-Consumer on the popular markets, but in so far as the accuracy relates to the popular markets, the e-Consumer application will be a tool for transparency so that every consumer who finds the cheapest price can know. Is it possible at the same time that you are actually cut off and that you do not want any transparency in prices so that the consumer can benefit? Can you be on both boats at the same time? Third, crocodile tears about the molecule in relation to the degree. I heard a congresswoman - that's what they call it! - Mera25, and the lady, the sympathizer, said that this is unacceptable, why could a librarian know better than a producer? Excuse me, guys, when a Member of Parliament comes to Stepma - whether she is a Member of Parliament, or say what you want - the bill must not have read it to comment on it? To producers, the bill writes any degree, so can you have a librarian degree, as an example, and get molecules? Or does it say in the bill on the molecules of producers of a crop degree? Why if it's for librarians, accept the criticism, but if it's for a crop-related degree? Now let's go explain it a little bit more. Where's the molecules? The moleculosis is about if you have a tie, you will, that is, have two people who are interested in the same position. Where you need to put some rules on transparency. How will you judge which one of you will take the place? You're setting some criteria. So bad is to set higher criteria and get a crop-related degree to producers and from under-graduate high school and so on.Huh? Is that so awesome for you? Do you not want there to be an extra motivation for people to form? Do you not want there to be an incentive to go up and provide services to the people's markets? And is it the criterion of the degree that we have put so hugely against moleculosis that it determines all the other social criteria on its own? No, it's the answer. It has very low moleculosis, it is just an additional transparent element in order to be able to choose which one of the two. How many cases per year will it require a molecule application? According to the service, the maximum in five to ten cases per year. That is why we are discussing and you are spending so much time on whether we should put a degree in the field of cultivation to producers for the five to ten cases per year. I beg your pardon, I find this absolutely hypocrisy and not honouring to the people's markets. Now, all these excessively, that "the bill closes popular markets, the bill destroys popular markets, the bill eliminates popular markets", is not serious evidence to answer. And after the bill was passed on February 1st, April 1st, April 1st, May 1st, people will go to the people's markets, see the people's markets and find that everything you're saying is lies. And the people's markets will be there and will continue to work. And they'll remember some people who said that Georgiadis is closing the popular markets and they'll see the people's markets open. None of us wants to close the people's markets and certainly not me. This draft law, which was criticised at the outset, has given some - I would like to say to the well-paid, I am not now saying that he is trying to have a party against it - for the existence in the original draft, which was in the public consultation of the then article 4 which enabled legal persons to exist. And then some people were afraid that these legal persons would act as a vehicle to finally become a legal person who would buy all the benches on popular markets. We were told - our intention was another, it doesn't matter - we removed it, it's not in the draft law now, the misunderstanding has been resolved. You continue to reproduce an argument for an article in the bill that does not exist in what we are voting on today. Incomprehensible things! As if there has been no public consultation, there has been no debate in the committees before, there has been no debate with the bodies. You're telling yourself what you said on the first day in a bill that's completely changed. So, in short, what does this bill want to do? For first of all, let me remind you that, despite what has been said and written, the world of the people's markets is in favour of this bill. Proof is that they've tried to strike twice. The first time they were on strike this summer. It did not close a single people's market in Greece, gathered in the Constitution any forty. I got down and bought them an orangeade. The second time, the day before yesterday, few of them actually gathered up. One hundred and twenty, one hundred thirty, still did not close any popular market in Greece. I was listening to the channels, 'peace on the popular markets', 'close the popular markets' and then go with the cameras and show the popular markets that were working, since no one was working. But who's going to strike? People on the people's markets know that the bill has within most of the provisions that were their overtime, such as how to transfer licences from parents to children, such as how to operate five-year permits and so on. So all that you're presenting as a terrible big conflict between Adoni Georgiad and the government with the people of the people of the people's markets is only in your mind and not in reality. Even Mr Moschos - I am referring by name to Mr Moscho because he is also on the channels today and was a candidate for the SYRIZA MEP - in my office the day before yesterday admitted that Adoni Georgiad saw him fifty times. When he was the SYRIZA government and brought the bill for the people's markets, he never saw one of them. They were outside with black flags and they were yelling. Their own Member says it! Now you suddenly remembered Mr. Moscho. When was Mr. Tsipras Prime Minister seeing Mr. Moscho, the President of the People's Markets? Oh, no. So here you are hypocrites too. We need to have a serious and structured discussion. Is everything perfect on the people's markets? If everything's perfect on the people's markets, obviously there's no need for a bill. If you have the opinion that everything is perfect on the people's markets, would you do well to vote against this bill and any other bill, because in the face of the perfect, what is the point in trying to fix it? Dear Mr Kelles, I forgot to mention that you, too, particularly referred to the bill with many interventions. I'm saying this so I won't blame you. I come here and say the following. If you think it's perfect, the conversation will stop. If you think people's markets are having problems, let's see how we can fix them. We have seen in committee that they have problems. Our aim is not to close any popular market. Our aim is to upgrade the people's markets so that we can build them. I keep hearing that Eleftherios Venizelos founded them. Good for him. He did very well and founded them. It's been a century. In a century, do people's markets not need to take a step forward? The whole world's changing, and the people's markets are stagnating like totems? Our aim is therefore to have the people's markets and to keep up with the general economy of the 21st century. All consumers and all others are actually adapting to this chapter. See that in the end they will work. In the argument that we put the people's markets on the e-consumer, the same reaction to the e-consumer had all the supermarkets. And they'll have the same reaction in a little bit of all the other stores we'll put in. Because our goal is to give the Greek citizen, the Greek consumer, a tool on his cell phone for anything he wants to go to shop, find the cheapest product near his neighborhood. That's what we want. Now if you don't want it and want the opacity and the possibility of a trader to raise a little price and steal his client, do it. I would like to give the Greek consumer the opportunity to find close to him the cheapest product to buy. And let's choose himself if he wants to go get it or doesn't want to get it, it's his choice. Technology today gives us this possibility and we will make use of it. Now we have a law on the people's markets, we put it on the people's markets. In the previous law, we had supermarkets, we put it in for supermarkets. Tomorrow we will be judged on another market sector, and we will put it on another market. In the end, all shops will post the prices to e-consumer. And the world that will find the cheapest product will grow and prices will fall from competition.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u174	Just like now that it's cheap.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u175	Mr President, I have not been able to conclude a sentence without Mrs Fotou shouting underneath. Do you want to give her the floor to say what she wants to say, to be able to talk with my peace?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u176	No, no, Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u177	But I can't keep talking about obstacles all the time. It's a little tiresome. Take the floor. I have no objections. I hear you yelling all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u178	Minister, go on. We also want to hear about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u179	You are causing common sense, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u180	Please calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u181	You've been a minister. Coordinate with the Hall. Everyone speaks when their turn comes. I sat there silent and heard everyone talk. When your turn comes, you'll get the floor and you'll talk. Let the speaker express his argument, in any case, in a relative quiet manner. To sum up, what you hear in this Chamber from the Opposition on a "flooring" bill, which wants to close popular markets, is fantasy. The bill has the support of the world of popular markets. I, once voted, challenge you to go live camera to a popular market, to see what the world of popular markets will say. It is the result of exhaustive dialogue with people on the people of the people's markets. Until I came down under the ministry and talked to the protesters one by one. The federations' presidents have seen them every fifty times. We've written and rewritten the bill 50 times to be happy. I come to the critical point that your rapporteur has mentioned, because I want us to understand it a little. We have all accepted in committee the case of a number of producers who have a producer's licence, and they are in fact traders. This is a real fact in the people's markets. You accept that there is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u182	Let's change it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u183	Well done, let's change it. Very good. So you accept that there is a real problem. I'm glad. It's honest. The SYRIZA rapporteur - I say this for the Minutes - admitted that there is indeed one problem and that some - I am not saying, very few - have a producer's license while they are merchants. Very good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u184	Did you get them?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u185	Come on, come on. No dialogue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u186	He says SYRIZA's rapporteur: 'Have you caught them?' What will he say 'Have you caught them?' He'll tell them, we'll take their leave, we'll fine them for all these years when they're playing the producers while they're merchants, and so they've been evading tax. And then they go and confiscate by tax the fines we've put on them even if they're biopalests. This is what you are proposing now when you say 'Have you caught them?'. So people know what we're talking about. What did SYRIZA's rapporteur say? If we caught them, that's if we destroyed all these people. No, we didn't, it's the answer. Good? So what did we say? Before we go to destroy them - because that is what you are suggesting, to be informed - we will give them a chance potential, voluntary, whoever wants to say it now, to take the trader's permission and to continue to do what he has done to date illegally. Indeed, when this article was made, there was a great deal of reaction from the federations of people's markets in various regions of the territory with mainly reactionaries of Macedonia, Mr Moschos here in central Greece, Mr Deretzis etc. You will remember from the hearing that there was a federation of producers of popular markets, that of the Attica region that spoke with very dramatic tones in favour of the article and explained why, if this article is not voted on, too many producers and traders in the Attica Prefecture will be destroyed. I guess we were all in the Chamber. I didn't put him on. He said it himself as President of the largest federation in the Attica region. The Thessaloniki people said they don't want it, Larissa's people don't want it. No one else wants it. Attica said she wanted it. What's their point? That Attica has a small lot of land and, in fact, the small lot of land does not allow the work to be sustainable only at the popular of the producer with its own production. In fact, he also has to make the dealer complete his income. And that if we go and get him the way the SYRIZA rapporteur said, we will actually shut him down because his life and property data do not allow him to be sustainable under these measures. So what are we gonna do? Already we have tabled a legislative improvement that will be shared in a short time, where we set the limit of twenty acres and geographically only the Attica region. And so, those who have asked for it, those who said, that is, in the House, "we have a problem with this issue and we will be destroyed if you vote for it", especially those who voluntarily give the margin of one month to decide whether they will be traders or producers. We don't order anyone to do anything. Why don't we give it to others? Because the others have said, through the institutional representatives who have come to the House and have spoken, that they do not need it. That's why. That's all. This is where we legislate for all Greeks. And we are here to solve the problems of all Greeks. I, too, respect this producer whose production is not sufficient to be sustainable. I do not necessarily regard him as a tax thief or a criminal. I think it is quite possible that the difficulties of his life are such that they do not allow him. We want to give him the opportunity to live with dignity. This is the core of the bill. That is why the article is voluntary and not compulsory. It's for whoever wants it. I repeat that the proposal that has just been heard by the SYRIZA rapporteur was to catch them. Grabing them is the next step. Evidently, tax controls will also be carried out by those who do so after the end of the month have taken their own responsibility for their actions. However, as a government, ladies and gentlemen, we have also given the last violator the opportunity to live with dignity. Now if you want for opposition reasons to destroy people, the pity on your neck. That's all about the article. Now I want to say a few words on the amendments, Mr President, and I am closing down. We have a series of ministerial amendments concerning the Ministry of Development. All the amendments are time-consuming. There's no delay. They're all in the short term and you've all taken them from last week. And because of the postponement you had more time. The first is the General Number 1109 and Special Special Representative 85, from 22 October 2021 ‘Adjustments on the matters of responsibility of the Ministry of Development and Investment’. It concerns the EDP, public investment budget appropriations. It is a series of technical improvements on how to regulate the PSC, which is the new way in which the Public Investment Programme is included in the budget. The amendment is followed by a general number 1110 and a special 86, again by the Ministry of Development and Investment, which concerns business parks. It will be explained in particular then, in about one hour's time, by the Minister responsible, Mr Papathanassis. The amendment concerns industrial parks and how these will be adapted to environmental protection legislation now in force in the European Union. Then we have the amendment number 1112 - and here I would like to take a moment to say why you have made a reference, Mr rapporteur - concerning the adoption of provisions, the provision of internal audit services and the regulation of the profession of internal auditor and the documentary internal auditor. I am a little stopped here because, in this amendment, the SYRIZA rapporteur, not entirely unfairly - I always want to be honest with the good criticism that I accept - he said that we did so without prior consultation and that you also received the letter from the International Institute of Auditors, where he accused us of not calling them in dialogue. I would therefore like to make it clear: in Greece there is already the profession of internal auditor, but there is no institutional framework at all. He's on the air. We, after exhausting dialogue with the Chamber of Economics of Greece and, in particular, with the Greek Chamber of Economics Industry concerned with the internal auditors, have reached this regulation which sets the minimum rules to a minimum extent on how one can be an internal auditor in a company. In fact, we had accepted their last proposal as well, and we have put all international standardization in order to be valid so that we do not exclude anyone. We are tabling it and awaiting the positions of Parliament's parties on whether it is in favour or against this amendment, which has the agreement, I repeat, of the Chamber of Economic Affairs of Greece. We accepted the criticism from the international institute, which sent me a letter, that we had not invited them to dialogue. I want to be clear because we must also be aware of where and how the dialogue is taking place. I, as Minister of Development and Investment of Greece - and I am not saying as a person, but as an institution that I represent - am obliged in any way to engage in dialogue with any private body in a debate on a bill or objection to a bill? Or am I obliged - and is it right - to speak with the institutional representatives, those who are voted and elected and are the real representatives of a sector against the Greek state? I personally believe the second. That is why the dialogue was held with the institutional representative of the internal auditors in Greece, which is the Economic Chamber of Greece. The specific institute to which you referred, Mr Colleague, respected at all times, is a private body. The Government or the Minister shall not be required to speak with each private body in Greece. However, when I became aware of this letter on Friday, with the participation of the President of the Chamber of Economics of Greece whom I called, we had a televised conference with the Institute to see whether they have any objections on the substance, and whether what we do harms the proper functioning of internal auditors. We have come to the conclusion that there is no problem and this debate is closed. I would therefore like to make this amendment, and I would also like the opinion of the opposition parties, because it is also important. Of course, we also have the amendment, for which Mr Dimas, who is with us now, which concerns a combination of services of the General Secretariat for Research and Innovation, which relates, in other words, to arrangements of a town and other character for the new building of the former General Secretariat for Research and Technology, now the General Secretariat for Research and Innovation. You know we're building the new offices in the very big building in Woudi with the aim of building an excellent working environment. I will close the amendments with the amendment concerning - and my colleague from the Communist Party of Greece referred to it - the TA B grant for the resolution of their businesses. It is the amendment with a general number 1115 and a special 90. There, my colleague accused us of making a photographic amendment, and you caused me to say which region it is. I would therefore say that it is not a photographic amendment. It is not a photographic amendment and we could never bring a photographic amendment to the House. But what does it refer to? In cases where Local Government 2nd degree agencies have created companies that have left debts and these debts create interest. This is a debt not by mismanagement, be careful, but by the supervision of the state itself. In other words, these are cases where the State itself was late to grant the subsidy and this led the banks, which had given them the loans, to interest them and when the State finally came and gave them the subsidy, these regions were unable to pay interest. Interest now remains as the company's debt and is constantly rescheduling and increasing the debt, so that we are at risk for the region itself. We say, then, that we are giving a window of opportunity - after internal and fiscal control, that debt is not a product of mismanagement, but is a product of government malfunction - to go and pay these interest to stop the region from being subject to banking institutions for damage caused by the public sector itself. That is the amendment. Don't you want to vote on it? Don't vote for it. But we are here to solve the problems. And you will allow me to tell you that when we talk about the regions and the second degree of local selfgovernment it is our state. We are no longer a Member State and no more regions. Therefore, the interest charged to the regions eventually ends up with the Greek taxpayer. And that's what we want to do in time and stop. That is all, ladies and gentlemen. I want to close in private...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u187	Well, not the companies.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u188	That's another matter, never being companies. Okay, you have a different office position. What you're saying is another thing, not doing any regional company. I tell you about a problem that already exists. This is another conversation of different ranges. Well, we don't give private money. Money in regions will be provided to save their debts. I would therefore like to close by publicly thanking the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. And you know, ladies and gentlemen, that I am not typically saying it, but I am actually saying it, because, with your remarks, especially of the province's MPs, and by pointing out a lot of the initial points of the law that could lead to misunderstandings or malfunctions, particularly in the relationship between producers and traders, you have made a decisive contribution to getting the bill into its final form and I think we should bring it to the measures that we all are pleased about. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Just to say, because I forgot, that especially on the issue of the OSCE, there is a serious change there, and we will have, as we have said - and you will soon see the wording when the legislative improvements are shared - the producer's statement on what is the quantity that he expects to sell on the people's market, and 50% will be estimated on his statement. So that is where no one can say that we want to cut off even one producer. In any case, in order to obtain the permission of the producer of popular markets, something must be done to sell on the people's market, it is not done otherwise, otherwise it will take the place of someone else. Therefore, this request of most Members of the New Democracy was also accepted. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u189	Thank you. Good evening, good week and good month. I don't want any grumps. What were you waiting for? That Mr. Georgiadis would have gone down 30 minutes ago? Yesterday you came to Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u190	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u191	Mr. Arachovite, I'm doing you a favor. You have the floor as a parliamentary representative. I would ask you to be as brief as possible. Do it for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u192	I wanted the floor on personal grounds because the Minister specifically referred to me. I am not going to talk about any other article but about what the Minister has mentioned to me. The Minister said, Mr President, that it concerns a few producers in Athens, who have not been searched for two and a half years now by the Ministry, but prefers to legislate horizontally by destroying the producers. By turning them and opening the way - because it is not just this article, Minister, you are making a mistake - this article in combination with the fifty - the presence of producers - professionals in the people, opens the way for the conversion of producers into professionals. That's what we need to know. Producers who are not producers, but are professionals, not to be illegal, could have gone alone and changed their license. So what you're doing is absolutely photographic. If these people don't want you to fine them, do the other thing. Send them a warning and tell them that if we catch you trading products which under the current regime do not have them in the IACC, we will punish you. If you don't want to do this, go on your own voluntarily and change your license. What you're doing, to agree, why are you doing it? They maintain the privileges of the producer they have so far and at the same time take the forgiveness and convert their license to professionals with the same privileges as producers. That is, in order to come to an understanding, to know what we are saying, to know the world that listens to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, I would like the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u194	Here, Mr Georgiadis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u195	Very much trustworthy, because I also consider you to be a man who is generally aware of these things and of your term of office at the Ministry, I tell you that you are wrong. And tell you where you're wrong? I say the argument and everything you say. The President of the Federation of People's Markets producers of Attica came here and the President of the Traders, Mr. Muliatos, both said the same thing. The 50-50 relationship between producers and traders, which you have all said should not be disturbed in Attica, is not the case. Five thousand are producers and a thousand are merchants. And for eight years a new trader's license has not been issued. If a producer goes today and says, "I want to be a trader" in the way you say so, he must wait for a license, that is, never. So today he can't do it. How's our law? The law gives us the margin for a month for the transfer to be automatic, that is, the example you have just brought, Mr Colleague. One who wants to be a trader, go get the application to be a dealer and not wait for a new license, but automatically have the trader's new license. So what you said, that's exactly what we legislate. When we do exactly what you said at the same time, you blame me for what we do for destroying them. So, Mr President, we cannot reach an agreement, because in the end you just want to make an opposition and not to talk about the substance. On the other hand, I repeat those colleagues who said that the 50-50 ratio in Attica today, which we are talking about, is eighty-two in favour of producers, so this balance has long been shattered. That's what I'm trying to tell you. So what's happened? Too many people, because they couldn't get a trader's license, went and got a producer's license. These people to give them the opportunity to survive rather than destroy them, as you said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u196	Thank you very much. Mrs Athanasia (Syria) Ignorestopoulou from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened with all due attention to the decibels of Mr Georgiadis's voice - it is not his fault, I have a problem, because I want to follow this House very carefully - what he has said. I mean one thing. I admired Mr. Georgiadis for a multiplier time with the audacity, cynicism and hypocrisy. Fraud because he comes here and calls on the opposition to discuss is supposed to be a bill calmly and simply, while he knows very well that he repeals without explanatory statement a law which the New Democracy had voted on and there is no explanatory statement on it. Secondly, Mr Georgiadis says: 'We are saving people' and he speaks of transparency, etc. Here, too, fragmentation and cynicism exceed every limit. First of all, we don't trust you, Mr. Georgiadis. The small and medium-sized enterprises want you to dismantle them, you said, merge them, abolish them, and so on. And now we're going to consider you as a savior of the people's markets? Did you hear Mr. Patolis, Mrs. Patulidou? Do you want to go for a walk on the people's markets to see what people on the people's markets say, to see exactly what's going on and that it's not your fault of any SYRIZA for that reason? What do all those people who are involved in popular markets, producers and professionals say? They say that you are going in an indirect way - you would attack directly if you were to take you, take you and do it indirectly - to abolish on the basis of an institution that has since 1929 been based largely on the survival of the Greek society in very difficult times, and it is also a socio-economic phenomenon, but it is also a cultural phenomenon. I listen to you and say, they also said majority MPs will look on the cell phone and choose on which people's market is cheaper parsley, tomato, etc. Do you have any idea of people's markets? Do you have any idea what the people's market is? Do you know any people of this society looking to see what people to go to? Or do you have any idea that, in economic crisis, these producers, these people on the people's markets would throw the products away and go at noon, with the greatest need for people to be able to survive? You want to say clarity, transparency, because you dare to make reforms. Why do these reforms always go backwards and never go forward? The Minister said that we should adapt to the 21st century economy in general. Can we talk about this 21st century economy? Can we just talk about her actually scamming? And instead of strengthening the people's markets, strengthening the producers, strengthening the improvement as much as possible in the direction of stirring up accuracy, we have the exact opposite and I will give as many examples as I have ever seen. But where I am actually raising my hands up, and the whole society is, I imagine, the famous degree of the Minister, who was so weakly accepted by the Members of the New Democracy. We are or aren't we all here in this House that we are voting against the minimum import bases, because they can't get children a degree and go to the IEKs and go to the technical schools and now you come with a bill and tell us that it's a degree test? So we're going crazy? That's not the end of hypocrisy, that's where you cross the line. In general, with this clarity and transparency and transparency, the parrot who will not state it directly or his price, so you want clarity and transparency there. In the white collars you don't want, in the direct assignments that have reached one billion you don't want, in a thousand and two you don't want. It's your cynicism that none of us can handle. You're expensive in pie and cheap in the wheat, how the people say it may be wrong, as I said. You do this thing permanently. He said the Minister, Mr. Georgiadis, is now 80/20% proportion of producers, traders. There's the button of Alexina. That's where the Minister's big problem is. Why should the proportion of producers be so overwhelming. And how is that going to fall? That is why, Mr Minister, while it was really done by consultation, with the consent of producers and professionals, this fifty-five, with Law 4497, you come here and leave it undetermined, because that is your problem, you confessed indirectly. As well as your problem is that you are dismantling consumer markets. All over Europe there is this institution, you come and dismantle it. What matters is another matter. In addition, in addition to the punishments and all that you said about the removal of a licence and read the penalties provided for in Law 4497, you are not saying the basic thing. The licence is the core of the logic of the people's market. What do you bring? The position. So the suspension of the licence has nothing to do with the licence itself, it is when a position will be called, which means, in essence, that the other person is losing his licence until the position is declared and until he meets the criteria, which you have set too much and you know it, we have said so: Degrees and a thousand more. I will not say any more, I will not say any more about the violations, which are exhaustive. I'll stay on one thing. The Minister's gone but let's hear it. Ministerial decisions. Tell me this. We vote for a law, it becomes a law of the state with your vote. Is there no integrated list of products in this bill that will become state law? Is it based on the Minister every time? And we call this democracy here? How do we know, and we and you who will vote, how will each Minister decide later? It is not by consultation, it is not by legislation, it is by decision of each Minister. Seventeen ministerial decisions! That's one of the things that doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u198	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u199	I'll close, but everyone else spoke too much. And I'm not just talking about the minister. Everyone else, and the MPs. I'll close with two things. Because there are also articles on arts and artists, this is a cultural event, it does not enter into commercial competition. Please vote against these articles. In other words, it is happening throughout Europe. It's a cultural event. Do not now come to trade creations that are made at that time by the creator himself and are certified by the Chamber of Arts to which everyone belongs. Secondly, you immediately withdraw Article 71 concerning the Ministry of Education. I mean, mercy anymore! Finally, this amendment, which is disgraceful about the police and the elections, is undemocratic and you are going to make a final para-state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Anagnostopoulos. The Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrinis, is called in Stepma. It will then take the floor for Amendment No 113/89 by the State Secretary, Mr Dimas. Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u201	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me, before I begin my position, to make a reference to the great absence of this Chamber, the Fofi Genuines, now under the jurisdiction of history, but it has won a place in the heart and soul of the democratic party, in the heart and soul of democratic citizens. And there is a great deal of political backing that he left on the democratic side. Those who discover it and justify it are forgetting that they have criticised it for its consistency to stand against conservative policies and choices on political grounds that its scope exceeded the limits of the democratic party. The Genuine Fofi stood against both populism and the efforts of some to rewrite history in the way it suits them. And she leaves behind not only a model and model of life but important political reserve for the unity of the space and the autonomous course of our movement through difficult association of forces and duplex pressures. That's why those who see us as a convenient government partner better forget about it, because the Change Movement has the DNA of PASOK and the democratic party. And PASOK has never been reconciled with the role of the second, the role of the expatriator. Ladies and gentlemen, starting with the bill and listening to the Minister who blamed the opposition for a lack of credibility, I would say that the government itself should look at itself in the mirror, and see whether the credibility test has been passed on to Greek citizens. Example one, pandemic. I will not say about the success of dealing with the first wave. I will not say about the complacentness and impossibility of implementing the measures. I will not say about the complaints of people who, for various reasons, were not mocked by official government lips. Instead of becoming a pedagogical-type campaign, you chose to do an aggressive trade-style campaign targeting these people. And then, in practice, you declare resignation on the easy assumption: 'This is the pandemic of the invaders and what do we do now? But in any case, we will decide and do not hear what experts say and what experts recommend." You have worked for the pandemic, you have worked for the scientists, you have put across many groups of citizens. And all those responsible for the pandemic so far have accidentally been removed from their positions. The Minister of Health, the Deputy Minister of Health, the President and the Vice-President of the EGE, have all been removed. However, you are currently lifting 'white towel'. You tell people to watch out, do not go to a home campaign, home, and vaccination at regional level too. You do not increase controls, as we have repeatedly requested in the Change Movement. You have therefore resigned from every attempt to strengthen the rate of vaccination, literally leaving Greek citizens to the mercy of God, with statistics being vague, with the number of intact in a week increasing over 20% and the comparison of October '21 to '20' being relentless. But it is not just the issue of health and the pandemic in which the government cannot say that it gains credibility. You were telling us about the armored Greek economy that goes very well, that in 2023 we will have an investment grade, that we have ratings from the credit rating houses that testify to this rise. We told you that this was mainly due to Mrs Lagard's PEPP programme. You said that 'no, it's not because of it'. The day before yesterday, Mrs Lagard said that in March '22 she stopped the bond exchange programme in which Greece, and automatically, Mr. Minister, the spreads, were spread to 142,92 base points, the yield of the ten-year bond from 0.53 in August, went to 1.31 and five years from the negative minus 0.23 to 0.56. This is the only statement by Mrs Lagard on the strong and strong Greek economy. You were telling us that you've filled your business with cash. In fact, when the Minister started the pandemic - he is not here to testify to it - and he said he would share billions and that we should have an umbrella for the billions of euros coming from the banks to business. The other day, you made a commission. The Treasury Minister did not, in fact, ask the banks to give money to the economy because they have the cannons closed down a year and a half later. The Minister for Development admitted that the programmes of the Guarantee Fund received few and large businesses, but he said that "it is a crime to give money without bank criteria, because we cannot risk the stability of the banks, because it has to do with the progress of the economy. However, we can give money through the repayable advance so that we can support businesses." He also said that the economy is not in danger. That's great! Is EUROSTAT coming the other day and what does it say, ladies and gentlemen? That Greece is the first country in the Eurozone to say public debt to GDP. It is the second country in the Eurozone in the public deficit. Is that a good message for the markets and the Greek economy? However, if we include in this great reason that we are in the first place in debt to GDP, the fact that EUROSTAT itself is asking us to include all 23 billion of Hercules' guarantees. You are, of course, opposed to making structural reforms and reducing bureaucracy, such as taxation, which you say is your government's strong card. But come back to the Tax Foundation and says that for '21 as for 2020 Greece remains stagnant in the 20th place of tax competitiveness. Carbons, then, the treasure! As far as industry is concerned. He's here, and the Deputy Minister is here. I read Mr. Georgiadis' interview yesterday. "Great opportunity to come in industry from Asia to Europe and how much more in our country and that we have invested in it," the Minister said in yesterday's interview. I really wonder, ladies and gentlemen, did he read in the same newspaper a few pages before the calls for anguish from the people of processing who emit SOS, talk about a reduction in production, a reduction in employment, a deficit of competition, an increased cost of energy and an increased cost of lending, at risk of sustainability, even saying that what we now live is much worse than what we have been living in the capital control era? Of course, on the issue of energy costs, there is probably no need for concern. Mr Papathanase in committee points out that ‘all PPC increases were absorbed by government measures’. This, in fact, is an unprecedented statement, and it follows from the reassuring statements made by the ministers that it is nothing, that the appreciations are temporary, that the market will be normalized by Christmas. All this has been overturned so far. The government says there are no big market appreciations. It says 'we do market checks'. I detract them categorically. No paper from the Ministry of Development speaks of control of speculation on the market, except of illegal trade and control of the measures taken by the pandemic. So we have a government that doesn't do price controls, when ELSTAT says that in nine of the thirty-four basic consumer products we have increased by over 20% in September that passed us. The state does no control. It uses and incorporates the procedures of an Independent Authority such as the Competition Committee, and in the end it says that we have built the e-consumer platform, in which two hundred thousand consumers can find the best prices. So the government comes in and says that the market regulates itself through competition and there is no reason to control phenomena of disgrace and overestimate by the government. We have proposed, in time, the reduction of VAT on basic foods, on agricultural products on the people's market - and here it will be linked to the bill today - which could give consumers an incentive to take advantage of the people's markets and also to provide support for producers, stricter controls which, of course, do not exist until now and a reduction in excise duty on fuel. For the cost of energy alone, the fact that households are charged with EUR 500 to EUR 600 million more per month and that the government's measures are up to EUR 100 million, I think that says everything. So this wave of accuracy from a world that sees inflation ending at the end of 2021 to 3% and rocks, disappearing any increase in wages that sees a constant wave of price fluctuations, how will it have access to cheap goods? Does this world have an alternative? That is why we say that the people's markets are serving. The bill today does not just support it as it should have been the institutions of the people's markets - because we all agree that the people's markets must be modernised, that there must be a single framework and uniform rules of operation to ensure that there are no different speeds - but, of course, we must not forget why, ladies and gentlemen, the people's markets are working so that consumers can access cheaper products without intermediaries. Because for many of them it may also be the only source of basic food products. And the question comes. Does this bill serve this purpose? Unfortunately - and I mean it - no. First of all, with Article 37, you are abolishing the consumer markets which started in the years of the economic crisis and, indeed, they have offered too much to our weak fellow citizens and are still operating today in many European countries. As the Institute of Consumers has noted, it should be made up by producers, which should be the majority in the markets, not the 'producers' who are traders and make them traders and will obviously form the prices not for the weakest consumers. Are there any issues in this bill? Our rapporteur, the Apostle Panas, analysed them. Apparently there are. I will not say that there has been no dialogue. There have also been meetings, as the Minister said, there has been a hearing of bodies. However, the issue is what issues are solved and which are the key issues? Is it or is it not exterminated the fines provided for in this bill in relation to the ones that apply to the general market? Obviously it is. With regard to the conversion of licences, despite improvements made by the Minister, the nature of the people's markets must not be altered. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. For the issuing of licences. The Minister when he brought the bill once, last week he said twice, now lets it be understood three times. I think that's what he's saying. Perhaps he himself understands that it is a very big problem. For the price statement on the platform that the Ministry has turned it into a panacea of competition and a solution to the problems of fighting outspring, I think we all understand that it is not easy for people who in adverse weather make their benches do what they do with very large-scale and structured accounting systems. With regard to tax and insurance information, there must be flexibility in regulations and the possibility of repayments so that people affected by the pandemic have reduced incomes, have not received much help and have obligations from the past not to be automatically excluded from the people's markets. And, of course, as far as the travellers and shoppers are concerned, I think that there should be a time-limit for the holiday seasons. So I think, ladies and gentlemen, that is exactly the difference between the problems in Lefkanedi, otherwise in my constituency in Elias, in the rest of the province, is the problems of producers who are the heart of the people's markets, otherwise the traders' issues are different. Can the rapporteur of the New Democracy say that "we make a bill and do not care what the trade unions say, they are last in our hierarchy", but these people are who daily give battle to adverse conditions, these are the people who offer products at very low prices to our weak fellow citizens. And with regard to secondary legislation, I would like to ask why the Minister is often very much referring to the improvements that have been made and the removal of bureaucracy, this bill has sixteen ministerial decisions, and it is reasonable that the concern of people on the people of the people's markets is that they will change the nature of the bill, the bill that we voted on, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, two years ago the "Investing in Greece and other provisions" was supposed to solve the problems of bureaucracy in order to get investors. Have all the ministerial decisions provided for in these two years been adopted? Because if they have not been issued, as I appreciate, you can see that here we are coming and discussing a framework which is inappropriate, which is only for reasons of communication and does not bring any results. So that is what people of the people are afraid of. They rightly react, rightly disagree with arguments, and we support these reasonable arguments for them. That is why we raised a matter of roll-call voting to put each colleague before his responsibilities to these citizens, those people who see each day in his area next door. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr. Katrin. Mr Christos Dimas has the floor to refer to Amendment No 1113/89.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. I shall speak about an amendment with a general number of 1113 and a specialist 89. It is the amendment, which refers to housing for the services of the General Secretariat of Research and Innovation. I would like to tell you that the General Secretariat of Research and Innovation is housed in a building in which he pays rent. The question, however, is not that it pays the Greek State rent to house the services of a general secretariat. The issue is that it does not meet the requirements of modern times, where we want to take the lead in research and innovation in the Balkans, in Southeast Europe and in Europe. What did we do? We did what everyone would do at home, in their business, and we did a housekeeping. We started looking for the buildings that belong to the Greek State which are untapped and we did manage and found a significant property in the facilities at Woudi the old Olympic property for the Horse Centre that we brought to the use of the Ministry of Development and Investment by the Real Estate Company of the State. We've finished the promelettes. We have almost completed the final studies. And the aim is to be to be able to start making constructions in building the interior, mostly from the beginning of the new year. That is why this amendment, which provides for the issue of building permits, the granting of the approval of small-scale construction work on the existing building volume, the change in its use in an administrative building, the addition of parts within it, but without an increase in the building coefficient and the volume factor, the change in internal layout and the restoration of the sights and the energy upgrading of the building. Let me say that since this transformation of the General Secretariat of Research and Innovation, the Greek Government, the Greek Government manages to save rents of EUR 450,000 annually. We believe that this is a very important step not only so that we can pay less money to the rent and be able to use this money to other purposes, but at the same time we will turn this building into the most modern building of the Greek public administration. We will have an area for which research and innovation will be proud. We will finally be able to make events within the General Secretariat of Research and Innovation, even more unite the research area that is fragmented and needs coordination on the part of the state and, of course, save this money. We therefore consider this to be a very important step and I hope that Parliament as a whole will vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u205	Can I ask the Minister something?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u206	Not you, your parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u207	The parliamentary representative is not here. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u208	Is that my fault?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u209	A detailed question to ask the Minister only, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u210	Let's do it, not Mrs. Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u211	However, I have no problem answering, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u212	What exactly is it, Minister? How much money? Does the amendment have a licence position?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u213	How do you manage me every time, Mrs. Fotio, while I want to apply the Rules of Procedure? Please answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u214	I think I was clear, but thank you for giving me the opportunity to repeat it. Zero euros. The Greek state won't pay anything at all. On the contrary, it saves money. The whole of the premeditated and the studies are carried out by the Onassis Foundation. So the Greek State pays absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u215	Thank you both. Now Mr Kelles has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the legislation we are discussing is about the future of one of the most enthusiastic professional sectors, of people's markets that offer consumers good quality products and good prices. It is particularly those who supply the market with fresh agricultural products, with which generations and generations have grown up in our country. Because we know firsthand the trouble of these people, especially those who are from the province, we must provide them with the guarantees that their industry will be revived and that its competitiveness will be strengthened. That is what we are doing with this draft law which not only modernises rural trade but also gives it new dynamics. That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. And all the other things that have been heard here about privatising and destroying the markets are - to say it politely - excessive. The new law introduces, for the first time in the Greek legal system, a set of rules which regulates the operation of the people's markets in general and in modern terms. Firstly, a clear distinction is made between the popular markets in organic street food, landslides and on-slaughter trades. Secondly, provision is made for the creation of the new category of standard popular markets which can be set up by the competent municipal authorities and the artist markets. This is a modern framework of operation which favours young people who wish to engage professionally in the people's markets, creating the conditions for attracting new consumers. Thirdly, the sales authorisations are linked to the positions and an objective system for their acquisition is established on the basis of molecules. These are molecules that will have social significance and provide prospects for both young candidates and family workers and those who are out of work. Moleculosis is proportional to the age of the children, unemployment, homelessness and education which the people concerned may have received, especially in relation to the primary sector, as well as to localisation. Fourthly, with the creation of the integrated information system ‘Open Market’, the so-called OPSAS, operating at the Ministry of Development, transparency is enhanced and rural trade is transitioned to the digital age. The People's Market Regulation, the allocation of seats and the placement of benches will be based on the topographical diagrams included in the OPSA. The OPCW will also issue licence notices and register all the information concerning licensees and their activity in the outdoor markets. Management of the system will be the competent services of the municipalities and regions responsible for the organisation and operation of the sector. Fifthly, the bill ensures the administration of rural trade by the municipalities that are closest to the citizen. In addition to Attica and Thessaloniki, where the relevant Regional Authorities of Attica and Central Macedonia are responsible, the local authorities are responsible for organising the public markets throughout the rest of the territory. Here I would also like to note from personal experience and experience in the Municipality of Larisaion, where I have been Vice Mayor of Administrative and Financial Services for many years that it is the municipal authorities that carry out the work of the people better than any other body. I'll say that Larissa is a model for outdoor trade. There is excellent cooperation between producers and municipalities. The producers of Larissa and Thessaly, ladies and gentlemen, are people who work hard and know their subject matter very well. They care about the development of their industry and no one can fool them. Since the first moment the bill came to Parliament I have been in constant contact with the new leadership of the Federation of Laika Markets Producers of Thessaly and the Producers of Larissa Prefecture and have been informed what to change. Here I would like to stress that the Minister has responded directly to their fair demands, bringing the necessary changes to the plenary which will become the law of the state. It is therefore clear from the preamble that: First, those holding licences from producers and professional sellers keep their positions and the notices of new posts will cover new licences. Secondly, the licenses of the sellers are fixed at five years as well as professional sellers. Thirdly, the vacancies will be notified twice a year and not once a year. Fourthly, producers will declare the quantities they intend to sell and will calculate 50%. Fifth, as regards the posting of data on the e-consumer platform, i.e. the number of place for sale, the starting price and the quantity available per product, will not be directly applied. There will be pre-training procedures for sellers, possibly also for equipment, and there will of course be a similar ministerial decision. Sixth, temporary withdrawal of a licence will be imposed not only on producers but on all sellers and, if it is found that they have not issued proofs of three different controls and not on two, as originally foreseen, within one year. Seventh, the period of Easter markets is increased to thirty days from 15 years, industrial sellers may be in short-term markets for up to six days a week instead of four, and finally the new law will be applied from 1 February 2022, so that everyone involved can prepare appropriately. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, one can reasonably see that this draft law not only sets order and modernises rural trade, but gives new impetus and security to those who want to get into the market and invest their lives in this job. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We support this piece of legislation because we believe in the benefits it will bring to the people's markets and it includes what they themselves demand, the people of the people's markets, who know better than anyone what needs to be done to improve their working conditions. For this reason, the Federation of Lassa Markets Producers, as well as the producers of Larissa, did not participate in the strike on 25 October, nor today were black flags as decided by trade unionists throughout the territory. The Minister had stated from the outset that he would respect and respect the parliamentary procedure. It will only accept substantiated changes in this bill and it has done so that there is good cooperation and that producers' fair requests are implemented. Of course we are voting on this bill and thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr. Kelles. And Mr. Andreas Poulas is called in Stepma from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech I would like to refer to the sudden loss that we experienced last week by our President, the Fofi Gennimata. With great grief, we have said farewell to a woman who in her public and personal life has shown honesty, will, stubbornness and self-determination and who will remain in the memory of all of us with an enormous appreciation and love. Undoubtedly, its entire course is a supply, consistency and agonist. In particular, during the pandemic, our President has led us from the first moment of a great effort to formulate positions and proposals in order to better deal with the pandemic by promoting people and their right to quality public health. So, seeing the unfavourable situation that is taking place this year in our country with the pandemic, the incidents growing rapidly day after day and scientists pounding the alarm, we find that the Prime Minister and his ministers remain simple to see in a project that seems to be not leading to a happy end. The measures taken by the government proved inadequate and in many cases created more problems than solved. The bad turn of the pandemic in our country must not leave the government unresolved. Now they need decisive, brave measures that will improve the country's epidemiological picture, measures that are targeted and adapted to each regional section of the country in line with the specificities and problems facing each other. Each regional unit needs its own planning for further vaccination of the population by means of door-to-door vaccinations, involving health services, mobile units - particular importance must be given to vaccination of the elderly and people with underlying diseases - the reintroduction of measures to prevent the transmission of the virus, the intensification of controls to ensure compliance with the measures, the strengthening of health structures, the detection of the virus with more tests and the vaccinated and also the invasive ones. We say no to decomposition of primary health care by suspending the operation of health centres and regional hospitals, and we propose that private doctors be included in the primary health care system in order to record and monitor patients at home. Only in this way will congestion be avoided in the external hospitals and it will be possible to assess properly and in good time when a coronary patient needs hospitalization. In addition, strengthening secondary and higher health care, informing and cultivating empathy for the value of vaccination, active participation of coronary nurses in information and awareness of invaders. About the bill we are discussing today: we are entering a winter that, beyond the outbreak of the health crisis, will also be characterized by the explosion of accuracy. At the time, then, when the wallet of the weaker is expected to be literally narrowed, the government is bringing a bill to the vote in the wrong direction and at the wrong time. No one can claim that on the people's markets everything is well burned. But is the question of the bill presented here today part of the solution or part of the problem? So the answer to the question is to the second. Today the institution of the people's markets is deeply rooted in consumer habits, because it helps the small and medium-sized family to supply quality and cheap products without intermediaries by exploiting the unmediated relationship of trust between producer and consumer. It is characteristic that 29% of the population living near or below the poverty line is shopping overwhelmingly from the people's markets as well as thousands of small and medium-sized people who see them as a shield in accuracy and inflation. On the side of the farmer - a producer with its few or many acres - it is able to sell without intermediating its products at competitive prices and within an organised environment. Since the economic crisis and with its peak in the pandemic period farmers have seen the cost of production constantly rising. On the one hand, electricity, oil and, on the other, the cost of agricultural supplies, of transport feed has been detonated. The situation will also deteriorate from the upcoming energy crisis. On the other hand, farmers expected protection from the government, aid measures to counter the expected decline in their incomes and a substantial improvement in the pathogenesis on the people's markets that will enhance control and order. Instead, you choose not only not to solve the problems, but to add to existing insecurity, opacity, anguish for the future and to lay the foundations for gradually overthrowing the social character of the people's markets and turning them into markets for traders and intermediaries. This could also be seen as the cherries in the cake for producers who were one of the most deeply affected groups by the health crisis, and in particular for the period of the first ban. In many parts of the country, people's markets have been closed or their operation has been restricted by 50% distance, half producers and road restrictions. Measures that are more stringent than those which you have implemented in the main areas of public transport and in supermarkets. These producers who have waited for aid and aid, especially now that the worst is expected, are at risk of being expelled from the people's markets by means of sanctions and in no way proportionally, but also on conditions which are impracticable and impractical in practice. So what are you doing? You allow the licence to be converted into a trader's licence. Instead of allowing the producers of popular markets to become professional sellers, they should be allowed to give up their fields and sell imported products. We have proposed that producers should be allowed to have agricultural products in their area in one-third of their production, because it is unfair to remove the licence if 50% of the quantity declared is not sold. You are prohibited from participating in a notice to a seller that has not repaid all its obligations vis-à-vis any authority. Improve the working framework of the people's markets by introducing punishable and exterior fines. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I need a minute more, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u219	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u220	Eliminate the withdrawal of the professional's licence when it exceeds its income of 40% of the poverty line. You put the electronic platforms on the popular market via the e-consumer, as if we do not know that this is the place where the competition rule operates. In these anti-language provisions, add the transfer of the definition of the important implementation aspects of the bill to the adoption of sixteen ministerial decisions. It is an option to show that either you legislate diligently and manually or that you have hidden targets and pursuits. Minister, finally, the people's market is an institution that is surrounded by the confidence of the Greek society, which is based on the interpersonal association of producer-consumer. It concerns the non-preferential person, the man of the labour and the partition. It is a clear class choice to open the way to dealers to sell air and make the producer's life harder, pouring sweat. We as a Change Movement, want clean and transparent solutions. People's markets for producers and not intermediaries, strengthening the primary sector, protecting vulnerable and weak producers, supporting their income on the people's markets, isology, proportionality and control, substantive arrangements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr. Poula. The Group of the Communist Party of Greece calls, in accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure, for a roll-call vote to be held on the principle of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment which we are debating now. All Members of the Communist Party of Greece have signed. Let's go to the next speaker, Mrs. Silver Skondra from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the institution of the people's markets was established in 1929 by Eleftherios Venizelos in the difficult post-war period and after the Asia Minor Destruction. At a time of economic difficulty, in order to deal with speculation by intermediaries, this institution was created to bring producers and consumers into direct trade with a real benefit for both. Since then, over nine decades, the institution has bloomed, experienced trials and changes, and today most Greeks and Greeks have commonly been trusting and opting for popular markets to obtain quality, economic and fresh basic goods. The government today introduces a comprehensive draft law to improve the institution's operating framework. The conditions governing production, the economy, market rules and consumer habits and preferences have clearly changed, as have technology, which has evolved considerably in recent years. We live in the 21st century and the people's markets, which we all love and we all visit, cannot be an exception to the adaptation of new data and developments. In the plans to modernise the government, the opposition speech we are hearing again is a general and vaguely malicious criticism that is very often becoming extreme. At the moment, SYRIZA accuses us of aiming to abolish the people's markets. He says we don't have any contact with the folk mattresses. And be careful, this says in the New Democracy, the fact that the People's Party and its natural expression, as well as the People's Corps, is the culprit. We have heard from other opposition parties that we have not had a debate on the bill. Again inaccurate and distorted in order to convince them that they have political positions and proposals on the subject. The Minister, Mr Georgiadis, has repeatedly stated that there has been extensive dialogue with all parties involved. No representative disagrees that he has repeatedly met and discussed with the Minister. However, dialogue does not necessarily mean agreement at all. And when the debate is exhausted then it is time for decisions and legislation, which is the responsibility of each Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the technical details of the bill are known from the discussions in the committee responsible and from our rapporteur. You will allow me to stand on the political point. One more reason as he touches a lot of Karditsa producers, that is, my region. Producers who have a struggle in the people contribute to creating two-way confidence between consumers themselves and the local economy. They are trying to produce and market quality products and, of course, at prices that are accessible to the consumer and fair to them. And after actually applying the doctrine "from the field to the shelf" they rightly claim the added value of the product that would otherwise be collected by the various intermediaries. Governments, of course, have to legislate on the public interest and the good of many and when there is a need to legislate. In this case it is commonly accepted that such a need exists. The existing framework for the functioning of the public markets needs improvements and there are open issues that need to be resolved for their proper functioning, transparency and consumer protection, producers and professionals. Ladies and gentlemen, the various views which have been heard have been taken seriously into account by the Ministry's leadership, and by the proposals that have been tabled many times, have been incorporated into the bill. So let bad languages stop tearing up lies and mud in the fan. People's markets are not privatised. People's markets do not enter companies. Existing professional licences are not affected. Producers who hold positions and those who are licensed will not be affected will be given a seat before the opening of the new vacant posts. Penalties are not being severed. The Minister has committed himself to improvements, such as clarifying the duration of the licences for sellers' producers in five years, which will refer to the seasonality of the available items so that there is no concern about repeating the procedure every year, compulsory disclosure of the vacant positions on the public markets twice a year, so that time is not wasted and the vacant posts can be filled quickly. As for this moleculosis, it is only in cases where there is a tie, that is to say, a position which is claimed by two or more candidate traders. No one stays out of popular markets. But if there is no place available on the market, it should take a place next door, where it will exist. I think it is practical and reasonable. I would like to say here, Minister, that this month you gave for the conversion of the licence from a producer to a trader, in fact, is in the right direction and shows whether or not anything else and social sensitivity as opposed to what has been heard. Also, why we must all discuss it, say it and know it, and I do not know it very well as the auditor of the OSCE that I was doing that, we have phenomena - most of us inevitably too many of the evil - who cannot say as producers or farmers, for example, three acres of melon, which we know is making five tons of the acre and then selling as its own production of thirty or fifty tons. These are well known and we should at some point discuss them openly and clearly. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall now proceed, Mr President, because the time has passed. I shall say, therefore, that transparency is very important, and that must also be in the interests of professionals and consumers, who must know what is provided and by whom. In any case, there must be no concern on the part of a producer that it will be excluded from the people's markets and there is in no way such an objective from the government. For the temporary withdrawal of authorisations, the two different checks of the IORP are now made three. In other words, if tax evasion is established in three different controls in the year, the withdrawal will take place. Because that is obviously where we are talking about a systematic violation of tax legislation. Finally, the entry into force of the Outdoor Trade Act will begin on 1 February 2022 so that there is sufficient time to prepare everyone properly. The aim of the Government and the Minister are that the public markets operate in a transparent, non-discriminatory manner, in favour of competition, in favour of the free movement of agricultural products and the uninterrupted activity of producers, while ensuring the consumer at all times. We are therefore voting for this draft law that reforms and modernises the regulatory framework for the organisation and operation of rural trade, leaving behind a series of distortions, many of which are being moved by supposedly life-long factors, headed, who are even now trying to divide up the industry and intimidate their colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mrs. Skondra. Mr Socrates Famelos has the floor from SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, and then Mrs Malama has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u224	First of all, I should like to express my condolences to the genome, as we have all said. As you can see, Minister, I'm talking to the mask. The reason why I choose it, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office and Mr Co-rapporteur of the Co-rapporteur is that in Thessaloniki we are living a crime, and that is what the mask says, Mr Minister. We're living a crime against Byzantine history. We live a crime that destroys Macedonia's DNA destroys Byzantine Pompeii. It's a crime against Thessaloniki's economy, against Thessaloniki's trade. It is a crime against citizens who do not have access - because the metro is not working and will not work, as the Mitsotakis Government does - but also against tourism. But we also live a health crime in Thessaloniki. Today's numbers are tragic. Eight hundred twenty-eight cases. Thessaloniki lives in November last year with the responsibility of the Mitsotakis Government, which did not listen to the scientists last year. But this year it leads us to the same deadlock. Intensive treatment units without personnel, sealed out of intensive treatment units, delayed incorporation of private clinics and this incomplete, weak, unprecedented primary health care, and in vaccination the imprint of your own unreliability, your own problems. He needs an emergency plan for Thessaloniki, not to say about all of Greece. Unfortunately, we see that in our city, at least, we have nearly 65% more cases than the country's average weekly, but today's figures are tragic. But we also have a crime in the economy against consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises. Precision to energy and to all consumer products, raw materials dry the market. Precision in rent, a very big increase. 30% of the hat is expected in products, 20% increase in production costs in industry. A four - year - old family needs a lot more income to survive. The biggest increase in heating costs will be 45% for this family. In the 50 sq.m. and in the larger models we ran, the cost is 45% - 50% of the heating cost. But in others, in diesel, in iron, in copper tubes. A bakery in Athens needed 60% more electricity in September 2021. These are elements of the Athens Chamber of Commerce. IELKA, too, says so. Fruit and vegetables, fruit, vegetables, vegetable oils and meat. This is the Mitsotakis government. This law comes to do the same on popular markets. But to say so that it is not forgotten that the exact wave that comes is even greater. Along with the measures that exist in natural gas and despite the discount, we see that there is an increase for natural heating gas reaching 150%. As far as energy costs are concerned, for the November consumption in PPC's accounts we will have an increase in electricity value of 175%. This means that consumers should be able to pay the energy three times as much because of the choices made by the Mitsotakis Government. And all this comes to intensify PPC's privatisation, the assignment you're going to try to make this week. You don't stop here because the absurds go on. You are privatising the foreign aqueduct of the capital with a PPP project in EKDAP Ice for these services. Today we are again first at the energy price of Europe, on the pre-day electricity market, and from parliamentary control we learn that the Competition Committee has decided to make a working party on electricity accuracy. After how many days? But let me tell you that after fifty days of the Mitsotakis announcement in the report the ministerial decision did not even come out for these 9 or 18 euros. We come to this law. This law comes at the most critical moment, that of accuracy, to increase accuracy by throwing producers out of the popular markets. It leads to poorer producers too, very small and small, family farms, but it leads to poorer consumers, especially vulnerable, low-waged, retired, unemployed and other vulnerable social groups. The Mitsotakis Government's plan is to dismantle the popularity of the markets, make the poor poorer, drive out producers, discontinue the producer's direct relationship with the consumer and grant popular markets to intermediaries. How does he do that? With claims and fines that small producers cannot cover, with electronic reference systems, with fines for any small infringement, which do not apply to housed trade, with references and electronic systems that do not even apply to medium-sized supermarkets. Unjust full measures for producers, unfair to small professionals, unfair and unequal in terms of housed trade, corresponding to the very large supermarkets. This leads to a loss of place for small producers, which are practically a loss of licence, and small producers will be led to intermediaries. Producers, therefore cheap products, will be missed by consumers, will be missed by the people. This bill, Minister, is the joy of intermediaries and large chains. We knew that the New Democracy was the middlemen's party and the big chains. Now the middle class and the small and medium-sized and households and all the producers will know, because everyone gets lost from the Mitsotakis Government. Wasn't that one of the pandemic's weekends shut down the people's markets, the open coronary markets, to send consumers to the supermarkets? Congratulations! That is a very scientific measure. So what's the bill? It is rough because, first of all, the government itself has changed it too many times. They're inadequate. And here I have even a statement from the rapporteur, Mr Simopoulos, that I am tabling in the Minutes. I was given it by the producers of the people's markets in Thessaloniki, Mr Simopoulos, who writes in July that he disagrees with the conversion of licences into professional and with the alteration of the relationships between the people and the statements based on the IACC and the administrative penalties and fines that are not equivalent to those of the stationary trade, but also with the suspension by the producers of the products to be traded. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr Minister, even your rapporteur disagrees and has said so publicly. But it is not just the rapporteur who disagrees. Inappropriate is viewed by the Committee of the Regions and by Mr Djitzkostas and Mr Patolis. A little better look there in the New Democracy. It is a bill opaque, because it refers all to sixteen ministerial decisions, but also to a bill proving the social defeat of the Mitsotakis government. The changes and the shitheads that Mr Georgiadis has made and the rapporteur prove that they are defeated, defeated throughout the world of the people's markets, are defeated in the world of consumers. That's why they pick it up and change it. They are also inadequate in terms of preparation. Finally, it is politically defeated by this bill, which will not be abolished by you. It will be abolished by the producers, by the producers who have today put black flags in Thessaloniki and who write that they will effectively abolish this bill that kills the producers, bring accuracy to the consumer, sends people to unemployment and dismantle the popular markets, the refuge for new consumers. This is the official announcement of the Association of Producers, Professionals, Shoppers of the People's Markets of Thessaloniki "The Omonia". I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And because the Minister was wondering whether anyone else disagrees, I should also like to say to him the announcement by the Confederacy of Professionals Producers of Laikan Markets in Greece, which says that this bill should be withdrawn. For that is what federations and confederations say. To understand the untrustworthyness of this government, the Minister, who said this morning that there are no strikers in "SKAI", at noon he was found with the strikers who were under his office who made a small mobilization respecting and the sad tragic event of Ms. Gennimas' death. That's the situation. From the black flags of the producers you will be defeated. From consumers you will be defeated and everything that you do not change with amendments and changes because you have been defeated in society is committed by the next progressive government focusing on SYRIZA, that it will immediately abolish them after its election. This bill is unpopular because it dissolves the small and medium-sized and small production of the farmers we need for quality products, which we need for our region, which we need for rural purposes. But the New Democracy has never paid attention, it has never supported this social category, because as we have said, New Democracy is the middlemen's party and all those who actually rejoice, but it is not Greek society! Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u225	Thank you. Mr. Simopoulos has the floor for a minute. I will tell you the same thing because I did the same to Mr Arachovitis and I want to be fair, the parliamentarian has the floor. But, first thing today, take a minute. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u226	In practical terms, my colleague and something I have said in the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u227	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u228	But distorting the essence of what I've written, but I'm going somewhere else, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u229	Is that personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u230	Please, he didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u231	You came to have a mask show. So I inform you, with the President, I'm probably informing through you this last-name minority of the city of Thessaloniki, which is trying by means of a metro to impose opinions which are views vis-à-vis the majority of citizens expressed through the chambers of the city, local government...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u232	Mr. President, is this personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u233	He didn't ask for staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u234	That's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u235	Please, I gave Mr Arachovitis a previous speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u236	Let me talk, dialogue, I guess.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u237	Please, he did not ask for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u238	I asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u239	Mr Arachovitis has already asked me for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u240	No, I asked for staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u241	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u242	Nice show, call me what I told you in the last minority.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u243	Hang up, Mr. Simopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u244	I now come to the issue of the bill that has tabled a specific text of mine. Yeah, what I was saying I believed and what I'm saying now, and I'm gonna explain one - one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u245	In your speech, Mr Colleague, not now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u246	Mrs. Fotou left her.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u247	No, I didn't leave anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u248	But it's not possible, it distorts what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u249	You're embarrassing me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u250	This is where he testified my own...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u251	In your speech, Mr Simopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u252	But I've spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u253	In your speech, I have no problem telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u254	Leave me a minute, I'd be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u255	You wouldn't have finished it, and you know it, because I was in the commission, as Mr. Famelos says.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u256	Producers only become professionals for small lots, and that's in Attica. Second one. This will be the case after a ministerial decision has been taken, and even after a procedure has been initiated which enables producers to draw up. He told us about...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u257	No, no, Mr Simopoulos, please, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u258	Mr. Famele, your candidate is the one who...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u259	Mrs Malama has the floor from the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this government is a sworn enemy of the people's market, its people, but also of consumers who are shopping from there, first with the coronary and then with this bill, which in all its variations has a unique objective, the extermination of the small producer and the small professional of the people's market. At first you targeted people's markets as health bombs. Then you shut down the popular markets and let the big supermarkets sell whatever they want. Now, bring the bill that has a single direction. To remove the people's market from the field and deliver it to the great wholesale trade. And to achieve this, you turn each other against each other. But what's the bill doing? It makes the market the popular profession closed for a few. In what way? Through the closed number of posts and the dazzling procedures you impose to get a producer license to sell its crop products on the popular market. That's what you're doing. At the same time, you are disturbing the balance in the people's markets, abolishing 50% of producers -50% of sellers, thus attempting to change the nature of this market and of the people to make it commercial. In this spirit you started, when in the first draft of the bill you presented the provision for the entry of big companies and supermarkets into the people's benches and even now you are maintaining the same spirit, but you are initially limiting it to the outdoor food. There you leave the ferry open for the companies on the open markets for fast food. You have not been able to achieve this with the producer-consumer. But you're trying to do it with the little guy who's fighting with a canteen on the popular market to live. Second point of government hypocrisy in the bill. The alleged posting of prices in e-consumer. Instead of dealing with market cartels, with telecommunications companies, with fuels, with the charges for great atrocities in the large private health structures, you say that you will press the accuracy if the producer postes the price from tomatoes on the e-consumer platform. You should know why we really doubt if any of you or the Ministry's staff have recently gone to shop in a popular market. So you should know that this market is timeless the cheapest in all kinds. You don't know that? Do you care about transparency in prices in the dirt machete and on the onions? Is that what you're interested in? Of course not. You are interested in legislating an endless bureaucracy so that you can impose the monstrous fines you bring with the bill. To have a pretext to throw these people out of the popular market. In other words, if a folk bench is legal now, at 8 a.m. it should raise prices from eggplants, peppers, lemons and dozens more of the vegetable codes. And what's the benefit? In other words, the consumer should enter the e-consumer, see that he has cheaper potatoes in the New Moudan people, for example, by 5 cents, but at Polygriro he has cheaper onions. So what will the consumer do? Is it going to travel a hundred kilometers to get the cheapest onions from Polygyros and the parsley masquerader from Moudania? We're kidding! Of course that will never happen. We are now going to the most dangerous provisions of the bill, those relating to fines. The general logic behind the bill is one. Set up bureaucratic traps to lose their licenses as many producers and professionals as possible. There is provision for exterior fines for anything that can be imagined, not to cut proof for a cucumber, for a tomato or for a mint masquerading, until it does not post a price on the platform. A common denominator in all these sanctions is the immediate loss of the licence. Loss of permission if they don't cut evidence. Loss of a licence if the quantity declared is not sold. Loss of authorisation if no registration is made on the platform. Loss of permission for everything. And we ask this very simple. Why is there no proportionality in sanctions with those in force in wider retail trade? Why this extermination of the people's market? The answer, of course, is also known to us and to all the people of the people's markets. Because your goal is to stigmatize the people's market as a violation. That's what you've been trying to do for so long, get them to the point where you're going to tear them apart. Those of you who fail to fly out with the licenses will try to kick them out through the exterior fines. After all, this is not the first time you have been trying to do this. You tried it again in 2014 with your People's Markets bill. Then you supposedly wanted to apply the OECD toolbox to the people's markets. But if you remember it well - and I imagine you remember it - that bill was your last. Then you collapsed, your government collapsed and fell. We therefore clearly say that the relationship between the producer and the people's market must be undisturbed. No obstacle to the producer's access to a licence on the popular market. Support for local government to be able to regulate these issues relating to the proper functioning of the people's markets, both proportionate and non-exhaustive sanctions and support for producers and professionals in the people's markets with measures to be precise, with a subsidy for rural oil, with exceptional support for crops struck by extreme weather phenomena, so that the consumer can continue to find cheap products on his popular market. The people's market, ladies and gentlemen, is essential for our food safety. It's ecological, it's social space, it's a bridge of solidarity and these traits, however you try, you can't alter them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mrs Malama. I will give Mrs Bryzidou the floor from New Democracy, and then to Mr Haritsis, the Parliamentary Representative of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the people's markets are an institution which has been operating for more than ninety years in our country. It has been created at a difficult time to help vulnerable citizens and to ensure cheap and quality products for the Greeks. As the years pass, this institution is increasingly being strengthened, because it has proved to be reliable and the Greek society needs it. He needs it because citizens can find quality and cheap products. At the same time, producers have the opportunity to sell their products without intermediaries, at very good prices, to benefit adequately and, at the same time, to have jobs for many professionals who have been active for several years and maintain their families. But over the years there are changes. There is a need for modernisation. There are problems at times that need to be solved and at the same time, we must ensure by rules. All this must be done by the Ministry responsible, so it brings this draft law to a vote, so that we can move on to these axes and to these rules. I have heard criticism from colleagues in Anti-Population, and I would prefer the arguments put forward one against articles in the bill to tell us exactly what happened in recent governance five years ago, so that consumers, producers for whom there was no special interest in the absence of mediators, a law, a measure, which would benefit the citizens with whom we are in constant contact and with producers to see how they benefited. However, we have to say what we have done and what we have done. Because, since the bill entered the consultation to date, changes have been made. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the consultation bill has come. At least those which were incorporated after the recommendations made by the interested parties should not be mentioned, but should be praised as incorporating correct guidelines. It was criticised for probably companies large entering the folk. It has been made clear many times that it concerns cooperatives, agricultural cooperatives and women's cooperatives. It is a measure that benefits women's entrepreneurship. We cannot say that we support equality, women and unemployment, and when a measure comes instead of commending it, we blame supposedly ghosts of companies that enter and take the positions of professionals and producers. I would then like to refer to the existing producers who work in the folk who are licensed. They, then, continue to have them and have their positions. At the same time, those who are licensed, but who do not have positions before the notice will be able to take a position. Every licence will have its place, and it will also be able to have it where it has been unofficially operational for years and has been known by its customers and by the world. Isn't that a favorable measure to the producers, to the people who have long been working in the people? It is a very good measure in the right direction and we must praise it. The notice of positions has certain specifications, insurance and tax information and certain criteria in the balance sheet. There was also a lot of talk about degrees, very wrong in that direction. Again, the Minister explained it, but we do not want to understand it, because it is convenient to mislead the citizens that we are allegedly asking for the diplomas and doctorates of medicine and the Polytechnic and to take a counter to the folk. What's he asking for? It's just a relevant degree, like a farm food. Is it not good for a person who looks after people with good products to have studied something about it? Won't it upgrade the provision of services? I think that this is not something that should be commented on, not just for respect for children who want to be involved in this area and who have acquired some knowledge, but also for encouraging them to speak in this way and to make them feel disadvantageously in this way. There is also talk of sanctions for those who will not cut the evidence. First of all, tax evasion is something that has been brought to rules in all areas. This also applied to SYRIZA's laws. They've already been reported in detail. That it is done with three ongoing checks if proof is not found and sanctions will be imposed if this is the obstacle to having producers in the people or professionals, I think it is absolutely hypocritical. Finally, I would like to refer to something that has also been a lot of talk about, that producers should become professionals. But they are for specific instances voluntarily, especially in Attica, where there is a small lot, which can be up to twenty acres and even if they want to. It does not include all other charges. I should also like to say to the UCLAF that the products which will go to the people's markets should be sold at 50%. I think that this whole process is in the right direction and wants to protect the producer, wants to protect the professional, wants to give new opportunities to people who want to be involved in the people, and at the same time wants to protect the consumer in a difficult period of time, so that he can continue to find cheap and quality products in the folk field. As far as the electronic platform is concerned, which has also been misunderstood by misinforming the world, there will be a transitional stage. There will be such information. The producers all have their accountants and, of course, a course which will lead to concrete measures and specific rules will also be able to do so. With what goal? No, as a speaker said before, to see if in one city a hundred kilometers is cheaper a parrot. They are engaging in a right move, which is about informing the citizen through his mobile at what prices are variant in the people's market. And, in fact, electronic methodology has been passed on all services, it has passed in our daily lives and serves the citizen. These steps are good for e-government - and we have taken many steps - which we have exploited to praise, strengthen and incorporate them into other actions, and not to enclose them, because a modern Greece is not going forward, but unfortunately it is being driven back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mrs. Brysidou. The Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA is called on in Step by Alexandros Haritsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr President. I would first like to express my deep grief and sincere condolences to her relatives, her companions and companions in the Change Movement. It's a very big loss to our political system. Mr President, I can only begin my speech by referring to the great elephant that exists in this Chamber, in that country and which the government is trying to convince us that there is no. I am referring, of course, to the new outbreak of the pandemic. About five and a half thousand pandemic cases were announced. It is a record number since this crisis began for a year and a half, five and a half. I honestly wonder where the last mile Mr. Mitsotakis told us on 9 February? Where did the return to normality go? Where has all this attempt to cultivate a reassurance climate gone, that the difficult things have gone and that we are now putting into a new phase? Unfortunately, we are in a very difficult health situation. Our country records a record of cases, coronary deaths, deaths, deaths from excess mortality. Unfortunately, only last year, recent history repeats itself in worse terms and unfortunately it turns out that the government is unresponsive and that of course has disastrous consequences for the Greek economy. How else can one describe the fact that in these tragic circumstances the government chooses to have reduced expenditure for 2022 by 900 million in the public health budget? How else can one explain the fact that in these circumstances we have school mergings and agglomeration of pupils? Up to twenty-nine are students per class, while all specialists warn that new outages are schools throughout the country. How else can one explain the fact that after a year and a half we have fewer permanent workers in the ESS than we had at the beginning of the pandemic? This is, unfortunately, the reality. The Prime Minister may have declared three times the end of the pandemic, unfortunately, but the reality is very different. We have also come back to the last few days, as we have done all the time and raised very specific questions. Will you finally strengthen the National Health System? You're going to dismantle the schools, the public transport? Will you finally draw up an emergency plan that in these circumstances is more critical than ever? Will you finally come to an elementary understanding with Opposition in these very difficult circumstances? Just the day before yesterday, SYRIZA's president and Chief of Officership, Alexis Tsipras, proposed the setting-up of a small committee of scientists of common acceptance, to see how we can deal with this very difficult situation. I would remind you of the requests some time ago to convene the Political Heads of State or Government, for the joint acceptance of a Secretary of State for Health to be able to deal with this very difficult situation. Unfortunately, I say this and stress the 'happily' - the government with the government's representative has speeded up and has just reminded us that in this extremely dangerous situation it insists on the logic of division and polarisation. You have to change your mind, ladies and gentlemen, otherwise our country will continue to break down one negative record after another in relation to the pandemic. But I am also on economic issues. I read: "We have recovery, not growth. We will return to 2019 GDP in 2022. That makes a big difference. We've suffered a big blow. We are in a worse position than before the pandemic." That's what he says in his recent interview just last week, your colleague, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Skylakakis. The Minister of Development has been telling us all the time that the government has been stunningly going down one record of development after another. The first point, therefore, is that at last you get serious and consult each other. The second comment: There are money when it comes to giving tax exemptions to big incomes, as the Prime Minister Mitsotakis recently announced in the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, but not when it is about strengthening the low pensioners, because this was the question that was asked to Mr. Skylakakis in this interview. I have heard many Members of the New Democracy say what SYRIZA has done in recent years. I would remind you that we also have a comparison measure. SYRIZA gave social dividends both in 2016 and 2017 and in 2018 under suffocating committee conditions and with very difficult primary surplus targets at the time. And the third comment and the most important one is that things are very difficult and in the economic field beyond the health. Things are very critical and serious, which the Mitsotakis Government unfortunately does not have at the moment. The Greek economy faces a threefold challenge. First, at budgetary level, ELSTAT, according to the latest definitive figures for 2020, shows the public debt at 206% and the deficit at 10% of GDP, after the households achieved by the SYRIZA government in the past financial years. We discussed this in committee with the Minister of Agriculture in relation to the successes of SYRIZA over the past few years, in relation to the medium-term debt arrangement, in relation to the full funds that he first left a post-government government. And that was the government of SYRIZA in 2019, so that today we can borrow with zero interest rates as a Greek economy, while achieving an increase in the public's available income by 1,200 euros and a decrease in inequalities. The government in the medium term shows that it will go from 10% of the 2020 deficit to 2% of the surplus in 2023. How exactly will this financial adjustment be made? Will it only be with development or with restrictive measures, in common with new austerity towards citizens and to society? You need to put yourself in it very well. The second level is macroeconomic. The recession was revised by ELSTAT recently to 9%. It is the second worst recession in Europe. Significant indicators, such as the trade balance, show that our country, unfortunately, remains, despite the increase in exports since 2018, an import economy. Worrisome developments with the Recovery Fund. Recently, we have tabled a question to the House. We are waiting for the answer from the Ministry of Finance, as within seven months you revised your own estimates of expenditure by more than EUR 1 billion for the current year, for 2021. Downwards is the review. I would remind you that the budgetary targets are very much based on the influx of funds from the Recovery Fund. If these objectives for the Recovery Fund are not met, this will have an overall impact on the progress of the Greek economy. Of course the third and most important fields are, what we are most interested in is in the real economy. It is what is happening to households and businesses today. The lack of liquidity, the new heavy burden on businesses within the pandemic and, of course, the explosive price rises of the latter in foodstuffs, in transport costs, in raw materials and above all in energy form what I would call "bombs" on the foundations of the Greek economy. ELSTAT's official figures, to speak again with numbers, show that 6.1% of the population faced moderate food shortages in 2020, before this wave of appreciations. The percentage of households who declare economic inability to have satisfactory heating in winter amounts to 17% before energy increases. Social inequalities between 2016 and 2019 according to ELSTAT decreased and from 2020 they again take upwards. Just a few days ago, on the occasion of the International Day for the Elimination of Poverty, EUROSTAT made the data available on the proportion of citizens at risk of poverty and social exclusion. Our country is the third worst in the European Union of twenty-seven, with the percentage of these fellow citizens being 27.5%. About one in our three fellow citizens faces the risk of poverty. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Alexis Haritsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Honestly, I'm wondering. Are you worried about this? Are you concerned about this explosion of social inequalities in these circumstances of the crisis? While, of course, public research shows that right now, the number one issue which concerns the citizens, the number one problem is precisely this explosive accuracy, these great appreciations in very basic species. But it's not just households, it's business. See what happens in industry, for example, that has endured in the pandemic and is now at risk of collapse. See what it says in its communication a few days ago Greek Production for the significant burden of 20% -40% on the cost of production of the Greek industry by the latest updates, but also for consequences that are much more important to the Greek industry than to European competition. That's what Greek production says. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm putting this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Alexis Haritsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr President, I'm gonna need a few more minutes. And what does the government do against this? Whether it presents a virtual reality picture or refers to a new reassurance for allegedly temporary crisis and its international implications. Obviously there are exogenous factors. However, it is a question of what each country, each government, each state, is doing to deal with all these very difficult, very dangerous developments. Even the European Union, the slow-moving one usually in such initiatives, is announcing a toolbox with measures to support vulnerable people, with the support of businesses, by regulating markets. What do we got here? We have a government, which even rejects the SYRIZA amendment to reduce excise duty in these difficult circumstances. Of course, it goes on to see the crisis as an opportunity to divest the basic energy infrastructure, the electricity and gas networks and, of course, PPC, the great steam-driven development engine in our country for decades. I am saying all this, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, because the particular bill we are debating today is part of this very logic. The logic of indifference to social majority living conditions, which are constantly worsening, of taking advantage of the crisis as an opportunity to impose anti-social counterproductive and anti-developmental endowments and of serving specific interests. Our rapporteur has told you very thoroughly how you are actually changing the nature of an institution that is deeply rooted in Greek society, presented to you the recent investigation by the Institute of Consumers on the confidence shown by Greek citizens in the institutions of the people's markets. You are also bringing in a bill which puts barriers and obstacles to this indisputable relationship between producers and consumers, with incalculable impact on income and the survival of farmers and professionals and, of course, on product prices and the ability of citizens, consumers to have access to cheap and quality products. When do you do that? You are doing so at a time when the question of accuracy, the issue of citizens' access to essential food products in a cheap and quality manner is more critical than ever. In these circumstances you are going to make such a move, in a draft of which - and we have also told the committees - the points which are presenting and gathering the months of producers and professionals are not clearly included in it, but are referred to by authorizing provisions which will be regulated in a second year, with the famous sixteen ministerial decisions. We have also discussed this in the committee and I want it to be recorded in the Minutes so that the Minister for Development, who is not here, can read it. Because, obviously, secondary legislation is a standard practice - there is no objection to it - and it is always the case. But the question is what is being regulated by these ministerial decisions, by these sixteen ministerial decisions, not sub-procedures, as was the case with previous laws and by Law 4497/201. But here, however, it regulates what producers, sales conditions and how their licences will be renewed, namely the crucial issues of the functioning of the people's markets and the business future of these social categories. So in this very critical situation, ladies and gentlemen, the government chooses to transform the right of producers to sell their products directly to the consumer at a privilege. This is what you do with the periodic proclamation of positions. In these very difficult circumstances, what you are finally trying to impose is people's markets without producers. That is why you allow anyone who has a production licence to turn it into a business with a simple application rather than an incentive to remain in the primary sector to remain farmers. There are irresponsible conditions. I don't have the time to report back to them now. They have been told by our rapporteur in detail. Honestly I wonder which other professionals, from whom other traders are removed from the license due to the non-issuance of a minimum number of evidence. Why do you oblige them to put up an information system at 8 a.m. in the morning and start-up prices, as if it were a supermarket? Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, producers and merchants operating in the people's markets are the first to call for transparency and modernisation of their activities. That is why the SYRIZA government in 2017 also continued to reform and modernise the relevant institutional framework. It was then voted in favour of almost all of Parliament, but it has never been implemented. Why? That is a question that you need to answer. And why are you changing this framework without even a explanatory statement, but without explaining why you are going to abolish this framework, while you should make other moves, strengthen the producers rather than block them, support consumers rather than increase their insecurity. However, we are seeing here and that is why the reactions on the part of the producers have risen up, and what you are doing is to dismantle the people's markets, dismantle the productive fabric of our country. The producers' reactions have now come to add just the day before yesterday, and the reactions from the two largest regions of the country. Is it true that Mr Gjikostas and Mr Patoulis, who described the relevant provisions as inappropriate, are guided by SYRIZA and submitted their opinion in writing? Have we been informed about this, Minister? Will you change the relevant provisions? I will conclude by saying this: in the first committee I asked the Minister a question, a very clear and very critical question. Do you ensure that all the producers currently active in popular markets remain in their place? Do you pledge the Ministry that their position is safe? Do you commit that consumers will continue to supply quality food at reasonable prices? We expect answers and, above all, we expect producers and consumers to do so. And these answers cannot be negative. But because we are here in the face of a very critical and painful development for the primary sector, but also for our fellow citizens, we believe that every Member of the Greek Parliament must assume his responsibilities. That is why the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - a Progressive Alliance - calls for a roll-call vote on a roll-call vote at first, so that every Member of Parliament can personally place on this bill, which dissolves the institution of the people's markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr. Haritsi. The Deputy Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Nikolaos Papathanases, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u266	Thank you very much, Mr President. Since we are at the first meeting, I too would like to express my grief and sincere condolences for the loss of Phophysic Genems, a woman politician, who has left a very positive mark on the political events of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today and you are calling on to vote on a draft law, which essentially reforms the functioning of the people's markets, which I think all of the parties in this House and all the Members of this House think is a function necessary for the better and quality of the provision of goods to our fellow citizens. Thus, the different treatment of the issues of this bill is, I would say, an ideological difference in many respects. And because I have had the opportunity to hear Mr Famelou's position and Mr Haritsis's position, I would like to say that you have to stop as SYRIZA to underestimate the workers, producers and traders of the people's markets so much. We're not twenty-thirty years back, gentlemen. We're in a digital era. We are at a time when we all know that digital reform, the digital age, gives the tone of transparency and puts everything on the table. In other words, it clarifies the rules so that everyone knows when something is right and when they are not entitled to it. I mentioned during the committees and in the debate in this House and asked you to tell me what it is that scares you when we bring into a bill a moleculosis, and in essence you should stand much more clearly if this moleculosis reflects the needs of society against denying that a moleculation does not bring up the concept of transparency and does not enable young people and young people who want to be involved in production to stand up and say that they are really entitled to obtain a licence in a market and are entitled to be on equal footing with anyone else in a transparent manner and in a way that knows whether the molecules that give them the opportunity to operate on this market. I would like to understand why you deny so much the concept of certification or education on a specific subject related to agricultural production, food production. Why refuse a young man who wants to deal with the primary sector who wants to be a producer of a particular education so that he can create better and more competitive conditions and enable him to strengthen his presence in the region? Isn't that what we're all asking? Should young people and young people in the region stay and work under proper rules? Because I have heard Mr Famello say that we want to give people's markets to the brokers, please tell me: When do you give people more easily? When you have an opaque system in which you cannot understand or see whether you have the right to stand or receive an authorisation in a popular market, or when you have a transparent system, which records everything that each one can and everyone can see if they are entitled to be and operate within that market? I think that the New Democracy, with this draft law that it brings, gives transparency and the dimension of transparency to the highest degree. And because we should remember whether during the pandemic support was given to producers, I would remind you that eight thousand seven hundred forty-two beneficiaries received from EUR 500 to 1500, depending on the reduction in their presence and activity. This is a communication which you can also find from OPEKEPE with the date ‘December 2020’. So we are telling you that the government has taken care of it so as to support it during the pandemic to reduce the activity of producers. Another important fact, which differentiates us, if you want, and on an ideological level, is whether we are legislating here in support of the citizen and allowing the citizen to really see the prices he can get from the market. And I did not hear you say anything about the e-consumer, when you handed over a system that was anachronistic and where products and goods could not be recorded, and the market did not know how much the supermarkets were selling. I did not see you then come in and say something about this digital reform brought by the Ministry, through which you can now come here in Parliament to come in and see how much the goods are sold. So why does the digital change that comes into the people's markets not help our producers, traders and our fellow citizens? And why has such a tool, which in many respects has brought to light the facts and really supports the economy and those we want to support, the economically weaker, not an object that you would see in a positive light too? [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] Ladies and gentlemen, they have heard - and that is the concept of the functioning of the House and the committees - comments and comments and many of them have been taken into account. Let us say that now the license of producers will have a five-year duration. The temporary withdrawal, for which there was a great debate, is not imposed after two checks, but after three checks, i.e. when proof is not issued. I think we all have to understand that in this country, in any case, proof should be given of any action. After all, this tax dividend paid by each of our fellow citizens goes exactly to support structures for what you have been discussing, Mr Haritsis, for health and for these serious issues which concern us. Compulsory disclosure of vacant posts will be made twice a year. It was a very important debate and the Minister accepted this change. Anyway, you have asked whether the producers' positions are finally being safeguarded and we are therefore telling you that the producers' positions are being safeguarded, because the producer will say how much he intends to sell on the people's markets and on that quantity he will measure 50%, just to prove that his main activity is on the people's markets. Ladies and gentlemen, from the very beginning of the pandemic, and while much had been heard about the way the people's markets were operating, a great deal of battle has been fought so that they do not stop working one day. This has been because we really believe in the functioning of the people's markets and this positive print that brings to the economy, society, to those who really need it. Therefore, the people's markets continued to work and the reason was precisely because the Government, the Ministry of Development, believes that the people's markets are being strengthened and need to be strengthened even further. On the other hand, because there was a lot of discussion on the issue of self-government, municipalities and regions are gaining an easy tool for organising and managing rural trade and sellers a clear framework for their activities. It extends the procedure of the notice by introducing for the first time all categories of candidates for sale in all forms of outdoor trade in order to rule out any possibility of disequilibrium and discrimination. Sellers may operate throughout the territory other than on-site trade and after retirement other than on-site trade. The options for transferring licences are being widened, which answers a consistent question and request. New forms of organized outdoor markets, standard popular markets, craftsmen, artists and, of course, we all support young people and young people who want to be active in the production process in the primary sector. After all, we will see these very soon in the draft laws which come, in particular in the draft law and the new development law, where we can also give young people and young people who are starting to have their own status so that they can start an investment activity. On the other hand, the electronic recording of all forms of organised outdoor markets in the integrated open market information system is digital reform, which enables it to be all in light and at the same time the interconnection of the "EXPONSE MARKET", this information system with the e-consumer. I think that the efficiency and usefulness of the e-consumer has proved during the pandemic and this has even been extended to the e-Vegetable market. Today, after a long delay, because during SYRIZA's governance, the issue of the Volos fishing market was stuck and now it is inaugurated and we have the tenth fish market in our country. Very soon we will also have a new tool called e-Barcelona where our consumers will be able to find products there which are healthy and competitive. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is changing, reforming, organizing. We can't go back. We cannot say that we do not want to move towards a digital reform of the people's markets. I think that your attitude, gentlemen of SYRIZA, regarding the fact that these people are unable to enter a digital medium and record their goods is unfair. We believe that society is running, society is moving forward, and we will give with the draft laws that make entrepreneurship much more entrepreneurial and the development of our country dividends to all citizens. The answer to what the government is doing about this exogenous phenomenon, which is said to be accurate, is an increase in available income. From the Statistical Office we had the second quarter increase in available income of 7%, yes, 500 million household support, for energy increases and yes, a significant reduction in unemployment from the one we received in 2019. I would also like to refer to two articles in the amendment. The second article relates to conditions of construction within business parks. It enables establishments in business parks to place machinery, beyond and outside the permitted height, which was also in the off-site construction. I think it's fair. I will also refer to the Oinofyte area for actions related to the business park. These actions can also be extended to land of high productivity. High productivity lands with every draft law we protect them. Our homeland needs business parks because a piece of development goes through processing and industry. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the people's markets gives the strength required for producers and traders, ensures jobs, strengthens their operation and gives a new perspective to a function that we feel is necessary and useful, but which supports our fellow citizens most in need of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u267	Thank you. I would like to make a statement to this House. I repeat the point concerning the proposal of the Communist Party of Greece. ‘The signatories shall request, in accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, to hold a roll-call vote on the principle and on Article 67 of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: ‘Development and modernisation of the regulatory framework for rural trade, arrangements for the exercise of entertainment activities and for the simplification of a framework of activities in education, improvements to the logistics and other provisions of the Ministry of Development and Investment’. The roll-call vote, which also includes Article 67, will take place immediately after the debate on the draft law. Mrs. Apajidis has the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my position on the important bill, which is being discussed today, I would like to say something that I regard as equally important. The partner of a very bad government is always just as bad a police. Our society is fed up with counting dead because of your political incapacity from eighteen-year-old Roma to eighty-year-old in Istia. The cause is always the same, unfortunately, to combine your obsession with the police's self-regulation with your tragic policy in managing the law, which can now also be officially termed state violence. So I ask: Do we live in a war zone? And I answer: Yes, we now live in a war zone, because we live in a country where self-evident rights are no longer self-evident. Demonstrators get beaten. Strikes are declared illegal. The darkness of the suppression fades every glow from the light of freedom. You're going to create a new split. Do you want an Athens flirt again? Remember 2008? Did you forget? Can't you see that the trampism isn't going through the people from what happened to Trump who fell from the Black Lives Matter? But, although I am not addressing you, Mr Minister, I am addressing Mr Georgiadis, all lives have a value for the Roma as well. What you are doing is an attack on democratic institutions, tolerance and the cultivation of racist climates against minorities. We, as Mera25, believe in democracy, and that is why we attended the demonstration by two MPs from Mera25, and I stated our names myself and my status as police chief in order to ensure the peaceful nature of the demonstration. The result I think is obvious. I don't have to roam. However, when I indicated that I am a Member of Parliament, the answer was, 'I don't care' and in a gross synonym, which I will not reproduce. But the question is not if they've hit me. The point is that if they have the courage to strike unwisely a congressman who has declared her identity what they can do to other people. In the same protest, a lawyer was beaten, and I saw it with my eyes. A policeman appears to be in another exarcheia video breaking a glass shop window, treating him as a ball, which you like to express. Police behave in a way that reminds us of off-law troublemakers with an outbreak of infraction on the part of the Greek institutions. It's like it's a state in a state. The gentlemen of the New Democracy - I see your eyes - I'm sure you're indignant about what I'm saying. So today, ladies and gentlemen, I challenge you, come out after the debate on the bill on the streets, go to the squares, shops, to hear with your own ears, see with your own eyes what the Greek people think about your police, about your government. You know what he thinks? The worst. Why? I don't care, as I said before, what happened to me. I don't care about my black eye and I don't give a shit about my hurt hand. I care only when you of the New Democracy, but also all those who have voted for memorials, will, in fact, leave the neck of the Greek people to relive from the sieges of the interior and outside. That's why I'm fighting, and that's why I'm always fighting. One final comment. All this will not be said to any systemic channel, one will not know that an institution of order attacked a congressman of the Greek Parliament. The excuses of age are that you are 'little' that you have not understood you, I think they are ridiculous. Manolis Glezos was not a young man, he was well known, but that didn't stop them from throwing chemicals into his face. We, as a PARTA25, will exhaust every institutional margin for the punishment of those responsible to ensure the right of citizens to protest. The question remains. Who's gonna keep us from the guards? You will also allow me one final comment on Mr Theodorikos and his current bayian announcements. How many times do we need to hear from you about the police uniforms, cameras and police patrols? For two years I have actually heard the third measure announced by your Government, which proves that such announcements are prophecies in sin. So here, gentlemen of the government, field of glory glorious. Consider, at last, the obligation for police officers to wear cameras that will record their action and not just record others to unpack them. Since we have caught this debate, what about the obligation of all the police officers to bring their discrepancies clearly? You cannot, in other words, speak of order and legality, when you yourself and the bodies supposedly defend it with your tolerance for years. One is an intervention, the immediate abolition of the militarised bodies of the Hellenic Republic, the MATs, the "DIA" and the "DELTA". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need some time, Mr. President. I haven't spent my time in any other way. I'm coming to the bill now. I wanted to address Mr. Georgiades, because his bill is his. If I remember correctly, until first he claimed that he could not pronounce the name of Yannis Antetokunbo. I wonder if she knows. He's the man his parents worked in the folk. Once the Golden Dawn of these people, the parents of Yannis, went and beat them, because they did not satisfy their understanding of racial cleanliness. You in the New Democracy, if you didn't do so, did not show any substantial resistance. I'll tell you about us, the Pontius, when we came to Greece. What others tell me. I don't know. They were kicked out of the folk. This should not, however, be forgotten that the New Democracy Government has persecuted my Pontian border guards, who is the Right, what has done to them. I, as a parliamentarian of Eastern Attica, have visited the people, I have talked to people, I have asked what their demands are, because these people belong to my classroom. As far as I know, Mr. Georgiadis has wanted the bill to be filed in the House since his student years. He was dreaming about it. The aim is, in reading the bill, clear that there should be unfair competition between producers, sellers and supermarkets. You are operating, that is, consciously aiming to serve the sharks of the system. In fact, the heart of the bill - the other speakers have mentioned earlier - is the hydro-headed article 67 by which the Minister can arbitrarily, irresponsibly define the regime, the duration of licences, what kinds will be sold, and many of the positions of all types. I mean, you want to take down the small producers and the small sellers' base, deliver all the pie to your big trading friends. After this bill, it will not be possible for a producer to be independent, to lose his job, independence, and to enter into a tribute to the only possibility he has. I mean, be a salesman in a supermarket to the big dealers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u269	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u270	We have read it, Mr Simopoulos, the bill and very well. Don't question my words. His master will become an employee, a small employee in the major traders or simply unemployed. It is also the wise use of the Pissaridis report to take advantage of the small for the large scale, and that will be done for our own good. Peoples, however, are an institution with huge history. Legally it has been established since 1929. It has helped all our poor fellow citizens and small and medium-sized ones to withstand even during the years of the memorials that all governments voted to fragment Greek society. We, as Mer25, defend all Greeks and all the people who live on our territory without any racial discrimination. We respect every man who's worked, and that's why we're on the side of those people who raise their heads in this dark bill. He's not respecting the job, he's terrorizing the citizens, to give the lion's share of where? To those who have purged the people. Of course, it is no accident that the time chosen by the government to deliver everything that has been left to her friends. Where? To big business dealers. This is the period when we have huge increases in energy, for example oil and gas, which will mainly be burdened by small sellers, who, for the vast majority of them, cannot cope with, as they are now facing the effects of climate change on their production, which is being exacerbated by the government's environmental policies. Once again, then, the government is making the judgment. Once again, it is exploiting a bad circumstance for which it is also responsible in order to crush the small ones and hand them out of labor to the large ones. The class-class siege ram appears to be in the punishing expectation of losing the right to leave and to post those who have not repaid all debts at trade fees, that is, in the circumstances most of them have been created as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u271	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u272	I'll finish, Mr. Simopoulos. Mr. President knows. Let's not be fooled. We all know the timing of the coronary pandemic, as well as how the government, instead of dealing with pandemic, is working on it to finish its classic goal, small autonomous producers and sellers. A chance to grab, that is, once again for the big capital and destroy the class-patients. I know what I'm talking about. My father raised us through this, from the folk, I belong to the people who wanted to bring a piece of money into their home. And you guys want to pooren them, because they come from a class womb, which you just are averted. The world at some point you in the New Democracy will turn your back. Because when he closes the TV and opens his fridge and sees it's empty he won't be satisfied with Mr. Georgiadis' wishes and rhetorical cowardice, as when he said it is nationally harmful to a New Democracy government and now it is its first-class minister. As the daughter of a salesman in the people's and daughter of a father who raised me with the cut of the people, I've lived on my side what it means to survive and that's why I'm going to vote against this inhumane bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mrs. Apajidis. I allowed Mrs Apache to go over her time because she wanted to talk about an incident. As she quite rightly said, she really has no time to get away from her time. I would like to inform the President of Parliament, after contacting the President of Parliament, that there has been communication with the President of the Parliament and with the Chief Police Director at Attica, General Sanida. And, as the President of Parliament has told me, you have been informed that a sworn administrative examination has been made in this regard. So, as you can see, there was no indifference about the incident. I wanted to tell you this because I had this information and I would like the House to know about it, but also all the people who are watching us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u274	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u275	Here you go, Mr. Bukoro.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u276	Mr President, on behalf of the New Democracy I would like to say that the Step of the House is the step of the country where the political forces in our representative democracy fully express their views and are respected. The Step of Parliament cannot become the means for any messages, in a way that, if you like, is beyond the parliamentary dialogue, so that I am too mild in my characterisations. As far as this message is concerned, it is very recent, today, announcements by the Minister for Civil Protection to improve the operation of the Greek Police, which is an issue that I would like to believe concerns all the political forces and in which the Government has shown and shown reflexively in any case. As all organized, civilised and democratic states work, Greece and the relevant Ministry and the leadership of the Greek Police. From there on, we consider it unacceptable that the Step of the House should be used to transmit messages beyond the parliamentary dialogue, either by using technical means, by using banners, or by using recorded slogans.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u277	You become specific to understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u278	Be careful in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u279	Don't talk in general. Be specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u280	I don't want to talk personally, Mr. Haritsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u281	It wasn't an excitement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u282	I didn't say it was abusive. You understand, Mr. Haritsis, the power of the image. You obviously didn't read the slogan on my colleague's shirt. I would like to say that this step is exclusively for parliamentary dialogue. The parliamentary dialogue is free. The views of all the parliamentary parties and all the Members of Parliament are respected. That's all we've got to do. As to the substance of the issue of police operation, I think that today's response from the Minister of Civil Protection, Mr Takis Theodorikoku, was a strong one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u283	I think that the House did what it did through the President was very clear. I think we should go further and give the floor to Mr Georgios Karasmani from New Democracy. Immediately afterwards, Mrs. Fotio, then Mr. Andrianos, then Mr. Papaliou, and then Mr. Vassiliadis. We'll close to number thirty with Mr. Hussein Zabeck. Mr. Karasmanis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr President. The draft law on the proper functioning of the people's markets is particularly important, as it concerns large groups, tens of thousands of producers - sellers, as well as millions of consumers. For an institution that counts for ninety-three years of life and is constantly evolving and modernising in Europe, it should finally be modernised in our country. It is a bill that literally passed through forty waves and through many and varied reactions. That is why I must highlight the sensitivity and understanding of the Minister who from the first consultations and the communication we have had with him has clarified important issues. He made it clear that there is no possibility of private individuals entering the people and that the people's markets remain within the competence of the municipalities, except in Attica and Thessaloniki for which the regions of Attica and Central Macedonia are responsible. It has also made it clear that all the necessary changes to the institution will go ahead, solely in view of the interests of producers, sellers and consumers, and most importantly that licences will be renewed as they are today, without prejudice to anything and that they will be transferred to their relatives, which is the case. I must say that the Minister also showed understanding and demanding a reduction in administrative penalties and fines, as well as a reduction in the percentage of sales. So while the original bill provided that if the producer. -Seller subjected to an infringement, there would be a temporary withdrawal of the licence for fifteen days, now this will be after three infringements and be careful, only when three different time checks have been established that no evidence is cut. For my part, however, I fully understand what the Minister said that we must once again have a tax conscience. But the error is human and, in particular, many times, the producer is replaced by relatives who are not familiar with the benches, with the people and may suffer mistakes. That is why I would like to point out and ask the Minister to see, even now, that the suspension of a licence is causing great damage to the producer, especially when he is at the top of his harvest and is unable to dispose of it. That is why I propose that it should not be withdrawn during the peak of production, but at a later stage or I propose that what also applies to the other productive classes of stable trade should apply. Positive is that the 50% of the quantity that a producer must make available will now be calculated on the basis of his own statement, rather than that of the UCLAF, which was one of the main demands of the consumer producers. The bill is indeed the mirror of transparency, of equality in the licensing and distribution of posts, which will be proclaimed and posted twice a year, instead of the one that applied to the original. However, I believe that in the six-month period, which will take place between the two invitations, is a great one, as a new seller who wants to enter the lists will have to wait for six whole months. The best thing would be to do every quarter. Positive is that producers who currently have a licence, but who do not have a place in the people, will now acquire and then be given the notice for new posts. It is also good to believe that, in the event of natural disasters, the producer will also inform the public market operator of the reason and duration of his absence so that he can be exempted from the obligation to pay a daily fee. I come to an issue which is very much concerned and which has been debated a great deal, in the obligation to send e-mail, sms, every morning, in other words in the morning, in quantities and prices. However, it must be borne in mind that the vast majority of the sellers' producers are not familiar with electronics and are therefore at risk of a fine. This applies, rightly, to businesses and large companies. This, however, on the people's markets, is extremely difficult to implement. That is why there must be a review, a significant time-limit for adapting them. I tell you this because I know the producers, the professionals, I visit the people often and I speak with them firsthand and I know that the vast majority of producers and professionals are the people of the market and have no familiarity with the Internet. Another problem, which concerns and will continue to be concerned if it is not solved, is their representation, because they do not participate in decision-making, which concerns people, that is, their work and their survival. I would therefore point out that Law 4555/2018 should be amended and provision should be made for the setting-up of a company that will run and supervise the public markets, including producers' representatives. I close, because our rapporteur has mentioned clearly and detail in the bill. That is why, Mr Deputy Minister, Mr Papathanassis - so far as you and the Minister have been open to dialogue and to constructive points - I would like to believe that you will also make further improvements so that the final bill that we will be voting on is realistic and, as far as possible, adapted to the current needs of producers - sellers and consumers - which is the philosophy of your legislative initiative. In conclusion, I would like to express my condolences to the family and to the colleagues of KINAL for the great loss of Phophysic Genemas, which Parliament has been devoid of for many years and has been distinguished for its modesty, kindness and combativity. We'll always have the best memories. It's eternity, the memorial.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u285	Thank you. Mr Bukokouros has asked for the floor for 20 seconds. Please, what are you trying to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u286	Mr President, following on from my previous position and only thirty seconds, I should like to say that I did not mention the incident which my colleague denounced because you had covered me earlier by mentioning all the actions of this House. This, of course, does not mean that I do not entirely agree with what you have said and that the incident, which was condemned by the Stepping of the House, must be investigated quickly. Thank you very much for the time. I only mentioned it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u287	You're welcome. There is now a reason for Mrs Theanos Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u288	Mr President, I also say goodbye to Fofi Gennamata from the Step of the House as a woman Head of Party, who has honoured her gender with inconsistent consistency and courage, with cleanness and dignity. It will be an example for all of us. We'll miss him. Mr President, before I begin, I would like to say a few words about Mr Dimas' amendment to the conversion of an existing building into Wude, if I understood EBRD correctly at the Ministry of Research and Technology. We understood from the clarification that the Onassis Foundation made the studies for the conversion of the building free of charge. And what is requested by the House? To function as a town office to give the town permit! Is that possible? See? Are we going to give town permit now? So we're gonna restore the country's town office? If that's possible! Mr President, the most unreliable and unsuccessful Minister of the Government who would put the bulldozers in the Greek since July 10, 2019, which would create an investment explosion and we are chasing investors with binoculars, the most cynical Minister who told the citizens that anyone who does not want to be vaccinated does not want to save and today we are at the most tragic point of the pandemic, the Minister with the greatest ability to distort the realities has undertaken to dismantle the popular markets, the founding and functioning of them. Their incorporation and operation principle is the direct unmediated producer-consumer relationship that has created a ninety-three years new live public space, extremely dear and popular for all ages, for all layers, for all neighbourhoods rich and poor. The Greek climate allowed the setting-up and stifling, and therefore their countryside uniqueness throughout Europe. Because perhaps you should know that we have the highest proportion of people's per capita markets, especially in the large urban centres. It was the people's markets, which were a barometer of political change. Have you gone to hear what they say every time about the governments, about the opposition and everything else? They dramatically and clearly illustrated all our periods of modern history during the humanitarian crisis, where people and producers gave their products to people who are starving. Of course it's not too far away, it's 2012, 2013, in 2014 that you ruled. Then we had the humanitarian crisis. Of course, they were the people who suffered the biggest blow in the pandemic with a terrible dilution, with a fall in their trade. Without defiance, they also endured this story until the moment they hit the neoliberalism of Mitsotakis and the TV professional salesman Minister. Small producers, who bring fresh green walnuts, sesculals, good tomatoes, and professionals must be forced to sell to the supermarkets, to the middlemen. Does anyone remember those markets without intermediaries, which saved the world from hunger, selling potatoes, cheeses, oils, today when all these products are escalating? Does anyone remember them? These are the consumer markets that you first abolish throughout Europe. Amazing! It's the ladies who do the jams and so on. That's the ones you're retiring. Do you know why in people's markets there could be fifty-five producers with traders, with professionals? For the simple reason that this is how the healthiest competitive market was created. In other words, next to the bench, the one who produced the product with the mediator in the product competed with the price, the fresh product, etc. That was the motto of the whole people's market. That's what you want to break up. So it displaces producers and leads citizens to the big food shops that made huge profits from the pandemic. Today why don't you go see the prices that have reached the products and are launching your policy, in fact, with your energy policy, with your PPC selling policy, where you have now reached the consumer's basket? Of course, now, instead of a popular licence, they will claim a position on the criteria of their degrees, their age, the number of children, unemployment, the constellation - a new invention - and those who pass the basis for introduction and take a stand, will be at risk of sanctions and fines. Mrs. Kerameau has still not organized well. I believe that it should be taught by Mr Georgiadis, who establishes the withdrawal of the licence if the producer does not sell 50% of the whole lentil he produces. So all this is amazing! Isn't that right? In fact, they are abolishing the consumer markets that they voted in 2017. And from New Democracy they were passed and had proved their worth in the crisis and there are people around the world. The way of obtaining a post and the criteria for mobilisation of producers exclude most of the current operators, i.e. licensed. We want to make a change because we do not like those who exist today! But why is the New Democracy, after months of negotiation, bringing a bill to the House that has raised everyone up and which the two district officers consider to be inapplicable with a statement yesterday? It follows the same cheque of Pissaridis everywhere, in particular, we can combine it with abolishing a pre-existing SYRIZA law and at the same time, no matter whether the citizens are deprived of quality and cheap products that they currently need more than ever before, it is enough to grant the largest capital that is active in the area. They did the same with school meals, voted in 2017, while they went through as a pile. He received an eighty - five thousand daily from SYRIZA, stopped them in the pandemic while he could give it to the municipalities and distribute it to the people he needed. He remembered to reopen the competition, supposedly with drum impacts of making more meals, that is, two hundred and four thousand, but in fact the contest is for two hundred and ten thousand. It has, however, been doing so for the next three years, so that only the largest companies can benefit. In order to avoid any mistake, it has excluded small and medium-sized enterprises from the competition. It changed the whole philosophy of school meals, which had to be a Mediterranean food from fresh products from local markets. He also intended to change the nutritional register designed by the Greek universities. However, he was caught “with the fist on the back” by the Court of Auditors of the State, who canceled the competition. Where are we right now? We are in school without primary children, while SYRIZA had promised them that he would give six hundred thousand in 2023 to all children for free. Of course, on Wednesday you are bringing in a new abortion, namely an amendment which is illegal. And you will call on Parliament to vote illegally to get what the Court of Auditors of State canceled, the big companies now entering this competition. But by Wednesday, we'll have a lot to talk about. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u289	No tolerance, but three minutes! The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u290	Because it referred to the authorisation by Mrs Fotou and the Minister's right to issue the licence, I would like to remind Mrs Fotio that on 25 April 2019 SYRIZA was in the government and you voted to issue the permits from the Ministry of Development under Law 4608. So when we come, we must read and know who first gave the right. You were right, but don't come and blame the Minister of Development for the authorisation now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u291	It's not the same, Minister. Don't compare onions to secculla.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u292	Mr Ioannis Andrianos from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr President. Obviously, Minister, it's not the same when you're in the government or when you're in the opposition! So, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today an extremely useful, necessary bill, which primarily concerns the modernisation and resolution of adequate and pressing problems in the organisation and functioning of the people's markets. The people's market counts about a century of life in our country, exactly ninety-three years. It is an institution designed to serve the interests of both producers and the people's families by offering quality products at affordable prices, by abolishing intermediaries. People's markets are therefore a successful institution in our country. This does not mean, however, that everything works perfectly, that there are no problems or that there is no room and need for lasting and substantial improvements. The corneal pandemic, for example, is known to have caused serious problems for access to the people's markets, especially the Attica basin by producers based in other areas during the periods of the strict restrictive measures in the movement. In Argolida, for example, with about three thousand licensed producers in people's markets, the problem was strong and threatened the economic viability of thousands of families. And here the government directly retrospectively supported these producers - sellers by subsidising them with 1500 euros. For many products, for example, for clementine which has very little time available on the markets and limited processing capacity, this disruption of domestic and international supply chains created a risk of total destruction. The Government in good time and efficiently identified the issue and took measures to support and relieve the affected producers, which is constantly updating and enriching. It has already been announced that these producers will be supported with EUR 70 per acre as it was last year. I remind you that sometimes memory is short. Let us remember that despite the narrow budgetary margins, 30 euros were granted per acre to the oil producers who were indeed affected. In this light, of course, the Government must also consider measures to support producers of products such as oranges and olives again, due to the constant fires, the frosts, and to support farmers who have taken an important step - we must remind them - of the government by reducing VAT on feedingstuffs from 13% to 6%. And of course we must remind ourselves here of the war that the government has declared in the fight against illegal Hellenism. As also, given the global energy crisis, which has led to a vertical increase in the price of electricity and the effects of climate change, which now force producers to water their crops multiple times and for more months a year with the drilling and other pumping facilities, which, as you know, consume a lot of electricity, or even in winter when they use drilling for icers or windmills, we need to see substantial support and grant of the accounts for farmers of rural electricity in the context of the relevant measures, which have already been announced by the government. Because, as you know, Minister - and colleagues from the regions know - all of this is in conjunction with the enormous exogenous problem of large fertiliser growth, which in many cases is 40% -50% and 100%. There is a goldware of twenty-five kilograms, for example, which has reached 360 euros since 250 euros. They are, therefore, problems that our producers are facing, and I am sure we will support them as we should. Because if there are to be people's markets there must be products. So we must support producers to be able to cope with high production costs. I should like to say to colleagues in the Anti-Population and in particular to SYRIZA that the Government of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis is not responsible for gas prices, oil prices, for all these costs now exist by external factors. And we must highlight it and say truths and not plunder from this Step. By now returning to the field of popular markets, we must recognise the acute problem with the existing system of performance of licences where even illegal circuits which exploit the need for producers have been observed. So it is right to take the initiative for a comprehensive modern and effective regulation of these issues. And, of course, extremely positive and constructive has been the attitude - I would like to stress - of the responsible Minister of State at Adoni Georgiades who has honoured the parliamentary procedure, has heard our proposals, our comments, our concerns both of our fellow Members and of the representatives of the relevant bodies and has incorporated them in the final text of the bill. To have dialogue through the committees or through these procedures and to improve a bill or an assumptuous papa is not a change of attitude. It is a democratic obligation for the ministers, that the executive should listen to parliament and institutions and, of course, improve the bills. That is what the Minister, Adonis Georgiadis, has done, and that is why we must congratulate him. Thus, neutrality with these regulations, the fairness and effectiveness of the bill, is guaranteed and the legitimate concerns and concerns of the producers whose experience of life has been sceptical about any change and the security of law, which is the prerequisite and foundation for any positive change and reform, are founded. For example, it is a good thing that the penalty of fifteen days will be imposed following a finding of infringements of three independent controls. And so the risk of punishment being removed for an individual disregard but also gives strong incentive to sellers to adhere to the law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A little tolerance, Mr President, as with other colleagues. Thank you. In particular, it is a good provision for notices to be carried out twice a year so that vacant posts can be effectively covered, but also the definition of the criterion of 50% of the quantities declared by producers, which responds to one of their basic requests, and that should be understood by the Vice-Presidents because I do not know if they have not read it, they have not noticed or done so on purpose and mislead the citizens or producers. So 50% of the quantities declared by producers will go to the people. It is particularly positive that the balance, which is being attempted and achieved between producers and professionals, but also between young and older citizens. It is important that no one will lose their place as the existing licences will be valid for another five years and then renewed by the electronic process. But also the moleculosis, given to young people, is an essential incentive for our young people to deal with the earth, stay at their place and advance. In conclusion, I would like to say that, through the overall process of drafting this bill, the government - I said it beforehand - and the Minister responsible, Mr Georgiadis, has shown confidence in the Greek producers. Our producers are giving us a hard battle on the high costs every day, on the ever-increasing consequences of climate change, on unbelievable competition and on circuits, but also on the consequences of the pandemic. They are people of hardness and productivity who know better than anyone the great potential, but also the challenges of primary production. They are aware and actively claiming opportunities for the continuous upgrading of our products, for opening up to new markets, for guaranteeing the added value that certification and standardisation gives. It is therefore important that they have, as a interlocutor, a government which, in practice, recognises their deep knowledge, experience and prospects, a government that trusts them and comes to help them, supports them, care for them, and not impose practices and logic, which seem to be good in the papers, but in practice they are doomed to fail. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like you to allow me to express my grief at the step of the House, because it is the first sitting, because it is my grief for the loss, for the death of the Ghost, which has filled every democrat. Fofi Gennamata honoured the Greek political scene in practice. Her honesty, her fightership, her political and personal ethos sealed her life and work and gained respect for and recognition by political friends and opponents. I therefore express to her family my sincere condolences, her partners and her political partners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u294	Ladies and gentlemen, we have said that there is a tolerance, but the previous speaker and the speaker have now reached ten minutes. We said there was tolerance. So please complete the procedure because we have shown tolerance, but tolerance is not twice the time. Mr. Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u295	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, another false draft is being put to the vote. Signed ‘Reform and modernise the regulatory framework for the organisation and operation of rural trade’. But this bill is not modernistic, but it is anti-developmental and anti-social and is directed both against producers and against consumers. The bill alters the form and cancels the social character of the people's markets. People's markets are a historical and recognised institution, which operates successfully in Greece almost a hundred years. It has and promotes safe food for consumers, ensures Greek food and operates in conditions of competition by restraining product prices. It is a development institution since it allows small farmers and small producers to have access to the market without intermediaries. It strengthens agricultural production and forges confidence relations between producers and consumers, as well as between producers themselves and professional traders involved in them. All of these today, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, have assembled and stand united against the bill. Through the bill, balances are overthrown and there is a tendency to shrink, to control and to transform people's markets into supermarkets controlled by large groups and multinational foods and in a transparent way. The key points for the implementation of the draft law, such as the form and responsibilities of the legal person running them, the way in which licences are granted, and in the case of the positions to which licences are linked, the notices will be regulated by sixteen ministerial decisions in the future. The Minister will be able at any time to decide on the type of products to be sold on the people's markets. In other words, a second bill, which is not being discussed in this House today, is not being put to the vote and will not be voted on by the House, but its unknown arrangements will be included in ministerial decisions later on. This will complete the dissolution work of the current bill. In this context, the government itself, in recognition of the problem of the bill, has already introduced changes in some points and has announced some others that it has not yet introduced into the National Representation. For example, it has announced that the entry into force of this draft law, if adopted, will take place in February 2022. Another governmental originality, which leaves room for reassurance and expectations-building, even ahead of political developments. However, the central idea and the initial core of the bill remain unchanged! It is the reduction of producer licences, the possibility of converting these licences into commercial ones, and thus the reduction of farmers' participation to less than 50%, which is currently foreseen. This creates a barrier to the direct trade between producers and consumers, so that there is no access to cheap products. Will producers' licences be linked to positions which can be declared once or twice a year? Every morning, electronic recording and information will be required for the kind, quantity and prices of products, as is done with the large supermarket chains with a turnover of more than EUR 90 million per year! In case of any infringement, a punishing policy is followed, as fines and for the smaller infringement are exterminated and will reach the loss of the position. These regulations, as well as the mobilisation laid down for post notices, restrict the access of socially vulnerable groups to professional licences. The auctioning, which will take place for licences, requires large available funds and favours large chains and food groups that will first cover them. And the daily price fixing of products creates excessive bureaucracy and requires accounting infrastructure that farmers can only have for large supermarkets and large groups. The way in which the positions are declared once or twice a year excludes small producers who cannot monitor this rate and their products will be in danger of being destroyed if they have to wait months for the licence to be issued. In this context, producers, farmers, without the possibility of having a stand on the people's markets, should be addressed to the mediators. And consumers will no longer shop directly on the people's market in their neighborhood by producers, but by traders and chains that will be supplied by brokers. There will therefore be no direct link between the producer-consumer and the consumer, which was the guarantee of product quality and good prices. Thus, small farmers, small producers and small and medium-sized professionals are delivered to the major economic interests. Any changes to the bill are not enough. He needs to retire. The bill is part of the overall government policy, and it is another important vote in the government's systematic effort to transform the crisis into an opportunity in order to promote concrete interests of the great and powerful posters. In the environment that is being shaped in the midst of pandemic, climate crisis and food precariousness, when energy costs "take up the rise", and food prices and all first-hand goods are growing daily, the government not only does not intervene, in order to strengthen the primary sector, agricultural production, not only does it intervene to support consumers and households affected by accuracy, but it continues to seek to create and strengthen oligopolis in the market and in every sector that controls prices and keep them at high levels. Of course, they will operate in terms of social inequality. Minister, I address Mr Georgiadis who is not present now. All this isn't imaginary, as he said. They illustrate the harsh reality, the hard day-to-day life experienced by the vast social majority of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u296	Mr. Comrade, thank you. Please, ladies and gentlemen, be in time. We said, we gave the first two and the tolerance reached ten minutes. The previous colleague tried. Now the next one will try even more, so that we can achieve the desired result. Mr Vassiliadis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are discussing today is primarily about an institution of the Greek economy in which thousands of producers and sellers operate every day and from which the vast majority of Greek households are supplied on a weekly basis. People's markets and rural trade have repeatedly demonstrated their usefulness for the Greek economy, both on the part of the producer, who gain direct access without intermediaries to the public and on the other hand, that of the consumer, who supplies the products at low, competitive prices, in particular, in the case of fresh foods at such a time as to ensure freshness and high quality. The importance of today's debate is seen from both the scope and participation in the consultation of the draft law and also in the debate in the committee responsible for the production and trade of this House last week. Producers, citizens and consumers, local self-government, but also many fellow Members from all the parliamentary groups have exhausted all the critical issues, which arise from the provisions proposed by the relevant Ministry of Development and Investment. I also consider it catalytic and the attitude of the Ministry, the services and the Minister of Agriculture, who, since the start of the drafting of the bill, has also worked closely with all those involved and has listened directly and indirectly to their concerns through our rapporteur and Members who have expressed them either institutionally or informally. Even clarifications requested from the position of the rapporteur for Minority, Mr Arachovitis, have been incorporated. It is important for Members to be heard. After all, this is our job to represent the sovereign people from all the corners of the country in this Chamber. And this government of the New Democracy, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, proves every day that he hears and understands the concerns of the great majority of Greeks and Greeks. As I said, Mr President, the individual issues have been exhausted in the debates in the committee responsible. However, let me refer to some of them in order to stress their importance. First of all, let's start with an admission. The people's markets and the institutional framework, which need to be improved. Every institution with decades of life, such as the people's markets, undoubtedly needs occasionally modernization and adaptation to the data of the time with a look at the future, let alone at a time when we are now coming out of the pandemic crisis which has had a major impact on the sector of activities in the people's markets. So the crew of time came and the time is right, despite what the opposition has heard. What is the central philosophy of the draft law? Modernise rural trade to continue to be an important institution of the Greek economy and the rest of the 21st century. At the same time, it protects and - I would say - it shields the popular and social nature of rural markets. A great deal has been said, above all, by colleagues on the left for companies, major economic interests, private management and much more. Under the provisions of this draft law, it is clear that only natural persons, agricultural and female cooperatives are active on the public markets. In addition, management remains in local government, while social criteria for licensing are maintained. The aim is for each licence to correspond to a position. The Minister has already met the request for at least two post notices per year. I would say here that we can do three post notices every year. In particular, for producers, they will be involved with 50% of their production, with their responsible declaration and on an average of two years and not through the IACC’s area declaration. Here to say that change took place in the choice of producers to be able to become traders. This will now be about, as the Minister has made clear, only the Attica region. Producers who currently have authorisations but who have no positions will be given priority in this process, which makes use of new technologies through the Integrated Informal System of Rural Development. Once again, the government shows that it can better integrate new technologies into the state and the economy for the benefit of the citizens. In this context, the e-consumer tool is used, where stakeholders can be informed of product prices and choose where and when to shop, after having been given sufficient time to adapt them and with the necessary support from the state and in training, perhaps in technological equipment, as the Minister said. In addition, the draft law provides for the establishment of standard people's markets with high standards of quality, appearance, hygiene and safety. The only two points that we are waiting for further initiatives on the part of the Ministry are the case for legal persons under private law, especially in the cases of the regions of Attica and Central Macedonia and, secondly, the question of the representation of producers and sellers to management bodies. Both can be dealt with in practice through the implementation of the draft law and the secondary legislation to be followed. In closing, Minister, in voting for today's draft law, we are creating the conditions that will enable the people's markets to go hand in hand with developments in the economy, which are taking place in law and also because of the consequences of the pandemic. The modernization of rural markets is taking place, however, while safeguarding their social and folklore character. Supporting the weak in practice, not with charity and benefits, but with opportunities to increase income through the healthy exercise of the profession. I therefore call on the ladies and gentlemen to vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Mr. Vasiliadis for the time. I call to Stepma Mr Socrates Vardakis, who will also be in the seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u299	How do you know, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u300	If it's not, I'll interrupt him. I think Mr Vasiliadis has put the procedure right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you in advance for your tolerance. Politician with dignity, unselfish, honest, but above all man with A capital. That's how we'll honor and always remember the Ghost. Mr Andrianos left, but he told us earlier that you gave the farmers 30 euros per acre a year and a half ago. Now, who has taken it, I will not comment on it, but I want to tell him to tell us or one of you to tell us what you cut off yesterday from the spring support of farmers. You ripped them off. Voyager's voice! Now listen, it's not empty, it's the place on the people's market. Our farmers, our farmers, will boil off to drink their junk until the new posts are announced, if and when they are announced. Of course, the question arises that they may, in the meantime, have acquired, in the intervening period, a university degree, so that they will have increased moleculosis for the new licence. I guess Mr. Georgiadis doesn't think what he's saying. He told us that everything's going well, that there's no problem with today's bill, and if I understood it, he invited us to take a camera to some people's market, to see what's going on. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we are not familiar with cameras that are seeing others and others, I am going to challenge and invite Mr Georgiadis to go from tomorrow, until Friday next Friday, to whatever people he chooses, to see how much waste the bag puts and what problems today's bill is causing. Ladies and gentlemen, ninety-three years is the institution of the people's markets and the government is choosing to dismantle the institution as a whole, affecting consumers, farmers, producers and professionals. Minister, a few months before you had actually received a great outcry from traders, producers, farmers and you were committed to withdrawing the bill at the time to consider the calls of the involved bodies for the change of important articles of the bill. Once again, you have lied and, as you have seen, you have made no difference to the pleadings or to the references made by all the parties involved. Fines that lead to loss of permits and are our own questions where this bill is ultimately aimed? Certainly not to strengthen the income of these people and certainly not to strengthen this institution. You ask for a white cheque on a number of vital issues that determine the functioning of the people's markets and the participation in them by way of ex post ministerial decisions. You are asking, in other words, for our consent to ambiguity, to an institutional framework which does not exist and which is not presented in this bill. You insist on your initial plan to dismantle the people's markets, as we have known until now, and remove small producers and grant the management of the people's markets to private companies, I would say, private interests that we all know how much you love. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, your bill is downgrading the role of the people's markets. It is planned to convert production licences into professional licences, thus disrupting the balances, as they have up to now, by turning people's markets into purely commercial, with a view to shrinking and dismantling them. A series of punishment devices. You are suspending, for example, the authorisation not to issue two proofs within two months, independent of the amount or even the non-information of data, which even today cannot be done by large supermarket chains with huge revenues and millions of euros. Unprecedented situations! You remove the uninterrupted presence of producers in the public markets and institutionalise the involvement of producers in the procedure of the notice. The criteria are based on the degree, unemployment, if any producer of a farmer or seller is homeless. In other words, in each notice each entity may allow what will be sold or not sold to its own people under different operating conditions. People's markets are the cut - if you don't understand - of the farmer. The source of life they have left. We won't let you deprive them of it. Literally, we are talking about the survival of their own and family. This will be collected if you go to a popular market today. The economic data today show that we are facing great appreciations with more than five hundred first-care products to get a terrible price rise with what this implies for the budget of a household and you, at this time, are choosing to strike the only competitor of chains and multinationals in terms of both quality and price of products. Your desire is to turn people's markets into a supermarket run by large chains, and you have said so - small producers, farmers and traders. He said a colleague of yours, ladies and gentlemen of the government that one who has three acres of melons, where will he find the other products? To see how far you are from today's reality. Do you not know that micro-farmers today have three and four times a year of production, with different types of products and have sat down today by this Step and you tell us such things? Minister, it's a huge responsibility for you. I am conveying the greetings of our farmers and of the people of hardship and of the partition, of people who lead to a huge dead end. One thing you know, God can forget, farmers can't! Be sure that together with our farmers we will put a brake on the unfair war that you have declared at the expense of people of hardship and of the backyard. I conclude, Mr President, by saying this: we as a Qualified Opposition will be next to these people and we will fight for it not to be implemented, if you vote as it stands today, as you have brought it into Parliament, after ninety-three years of this bill that dissolves the people's markets, ignoring the enormous wound that opens not only to producers, farmers and traders but also to millions of consumers. One last thing, Mr President. Not to say you didn't know, we went on Saturday to a great people in Heraklion. Listen: 0,60 minutes and 0,80 minutes the tomato on the popular market. The cucumber 0,80 minutes and 0,90 minutes on the popular market, while 1,70 minutes the cucumber in the supermarket - from 1,70 minutes and up - and the tomato from 1,10 minutes to 1,80 minutes. That's not to say you didn't know. I think, Minister, that you should also give a reply to your fellow citizens, Mr Djijkostas and Mr Patulis who said that the bill you brought today will not be implemented will be rather inappropriate in practice. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u302	We will now continue with Mr Georgios Kotonia from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u303	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill and, after exhausting discussion and continuous improvements, the institutional framework for the organization and operation of rural trade and, in particular, of public markets in terms of transparency and fair competition is reformed, while maintaining its popular character. It is noteworthy that the bill after its debate and democratic dialogue and its preparation in the committee of Parliament has included a number of amendments, many of which we province MPs have also made in the interest of functionality, quality and justice in the people's markets. We must never forget that since the beginning of the operation of the people's market foundation, the aim has always been to compel producers from intermediaries and, at the same time, to facilitate consumers who would have direct access to the goods produced and even better prices. This is precisely the aim of the Ministry of Development's new plan, but also of improving safety and hygiene conditions, and of adopting a system of continuous information for citizens on current prices. Experience from the long-term functioning of the people's markets has shown us their problems, so the points where improvements were needed. When I was the mayor, the permanent problems and the complaints were institutional ambiguity, the problems with the permissions of the participants, the adequacy and distribution of the positions, their permits, their power and their transfer, with the surface and uniformity of the benches, even for the competent supervising bodies of the peoples that changed every two years. A first request from the people of the people, as I have said, has always been to ensure in a transparent and fair manner adequate posts for producers holding legal licences. This draft law solves this first basic issue of the people, as it is ensured that those with licences will be given a place but without a fixed position. Indeed, after the positions have been determined, new positions and new licences will then be opened which will now have effect, as has been said, for five years. And all this through the integrated 'Open Market' information system so that it now corresponds to each licence and one position. The proposed draft law regulates rural trade by acknowledging social and professional molecules for obtaining a licence and a place of business by simplifying the conditions and extending the transfer options for producers and professional sellers, while ensuring the continuity of the current licensed sellers of all popular markets. Let us stress that the bill makes it clear that the responsibility for managing the people's markets lies with the local government, which means that they do not enter private individuals, as was heard by the opposition in discussions on the management of the people's markets. It is also worth pointing out that the social criteria on the basis of which new licences will be granted are maintained, while both the new and the existing ones fully retain all the rights to transfer and legacy that are currently in force. For another concern regarding the penalties imposed, which were allegedly termed extinct, it should be stressed that these are related to controls and not to the lack of evidence, whereas the non-institutional price of e-consumer is in no way linked by a licence but to the exclusion for a certain period of time from the producer's specific position. At the same time, the bill introduces the institution of the standard people's markets and defines the competent authorities and the required elements of their operation while regulating market issues for the preparation and sale of ready-made food and drink on the road, so-called street food markets. With regard to ensuring the proper and efficient management of rural trade by the competent authorities which, as I said earlier, are municipalities and regions, as well as private sellers, it is laid down that it will be conducted and ensured through the integrated open market information system that will be technically implemented by the Directorate-General for Digital Policy and Electronic Governance of the Ministry of Development and Investment. Such electronic management will include all actions related to the authorisation and the framework for the activities of citizens, such as the replacement and transfer of licences, the registration of outdoor spaces, controls and fines. This system will also include the rules on the operation of each public market to be issued by the competent operator in parallel with its post on the website of the municipality concerned and the region concerned. It is obvious that this regulation is aimed at simplifying and speeding up procedures, as well as strengthening transparency and the efficient management of rural trade in all sectors. The integrated information system will operate with the information system of the digital platform e-Consumer of the General Secretariat for Trade and Consumer Protection in which each operator on the popular market will import every morning the starting price and the quantity available for fresh fruit and vegetables and fishery and aquaculture products during the market period. I welcome the amendment to which the Minister referred earlier, Mr Georgiadis, referred, which disconnects the quantity declared from the OSCE declaration. This regulation, despite the extra time it will require of the people's sellers, will clearly work in favour of better information for consumers as prices on the public markets have been clearly lower. However, modern trading conditions and intense competition have changed the landscape. It is therefore in the interests of consumers to know in advance the prices offered by producers on the popular markets, so that they can make the comparisons and have the opportunity to make the right choice, as is the case today, since this is the case today, and they know about the two hundred thousand consumers who will find the best prices on the market. So today's provisions, ladies and gentlemen, come as a response to the fragmentary and incomplete regulations that have created ambiguity and left room for misinterpretation. This draft law retains the popularity of popular markets, preserves the interests of producers and aims at modernising their operation by exploiting the benefits of digital technology and integrating transparency conditions for the benefit of all stakeholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u304	Thanks to my colleague. Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas from the New Democracy is now next.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u305	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the new rural trade regulatory framework could be summarised in just a few words: transparency, social and development, security. Transparency because the entry of new sellers into all forms of rural trade is done by means of standardised, visible and objective procedures. Under the rules applicable to all interested parties. Rules which ensure their equal treatment and allow participation in more. With the electronic publication of a licence and post, people's markets become what the title of the information system, which supports them, that is, more open markets. They become more transparent markets. Because this system will include the integrated profile, the specific features and the necessary legal documents for the markets in rural trade and those involved in it. In addition, the information on prices and quantities of certain fresh products, vegetables, fish fruit, sold in specific places in every people's market will be recorded so that the consumer can know, compare and assess whether and where it is in the interest of him to do his shopping, saving time and money. At the same time, the implementation of open and structured procedures establishes criteria for new citizens' licences combining the social element with the development factor. On the one hand, account is taken of the need to support our more vulnerable fellow citizens, such as the homeless, the unemployed, the single parents, and, of course, the people and parents of disabled people. On the other hand, local production is based on social and rural entrepreneurship by authorizing members of rural and female cooperatives and social cooperatives with a productive purpose. Also important is that youth employment is encouraged by increased moleculosis for ages up to thirty, as well as by the employment of those with a university degree relating to primary production. At this point, unfortunately, there has been a lot of anti-population squabbling that some younger people are supposed to come in and have no contact with the field to take the positions of the unscrupulous bio-populationists who are selling today to the people. What will actually be the case is: electronic notices will only concern new licences. There is no question of existing licences or existing positions being affected at all. Those who are licensed, but without a position, will be given priority outside the process of calling for new positions to put an end to the concern of producers to seek a new position every morning in a market. This, ladies and gentlemen, is clear, as is clear, that withdrawal of a licence and that for one year only applies to those who are required to do not have a cash machine. In addition, there is provision for revocation of a post and not of a licence for fifteen days when someone is on the spot not to have issued proof for the third time. Here, ladies and gentlemen, allow me a comment. We agree that the main aim of the sanctions should be to prevent an infringement and to comply with the law and not to punish it. We have to agree, however, that the amount and nature of the penalty are significant and whether the debtor will comply with the law. However, when, as we have heard from the representatives of government, it is not always easy everywhere to carry out continuous and intensive checks on all the people's markets that operate in one day. Since, therefore, the possibility of monitoring and hence finding the infringement is relatively small, it is legitimate to provide for penalties and fines that may be afflicted and therefore act as a material disincentive to the infringement in the interests of healthy competition and ultimately of our fellow citizens who choose to shop in the people's markets. I would like to end, ladies and gentlemen, with one comment on the drafting of the bill by the committee responsible last week. I have seen fellow Members come in a sincere mood and with concrete proposals in various parts of the bill, as I saw the Ministry's political leadership willing to hear and discuss changes, while explaining the logic of certain arrangements. The result of this fruitful debate was a number of changes to the draft law. For example, I mention the increase in the period of validity of the producer licence in five years, in order to keep pace with that of the trader, the increase in the frequency of notification of the available vacancies, the statement by the producer himself of the quantity of production he wishes to sell for sale, the increase from two to three times that someone will be in control to have sold without proof. If anything, these changes also state the Ministry's intention to help the presence of our producers in rural trade. The calm and careful reading of the new regulations on outdoor trade, ladies and gentlemen, shows that there is neither the exclusion of today's citizens nor the introduction of new ones is difficult. On the contrary, the current recipients are guaranteed, there is a clear and equitable treatment of those concerned who meet the conditions, the most young are supported, the weakest and those who are involved in productive schemes are supported. Information shall be provided to the consumer to have the power of choice. We are here to see the implementation of a new framework that aims to put the countryside trade into the 21st century, recognizing in its history, its offer and its response to Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u306	We continue with Mr. Ioannis Mela from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u307	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill of law which really concerns the daily lives of citizens, whether as a consumer, a citizen as a producer, or a citizen as a trader. Outdoor trade and the functioning of the people's markets do not concern either multinational companies of great interest or consumers of very large incomes. It concerns farmers who come to sell their crops, traders who live in their families from the partition that they also bring out those consumers who go to people's markets and even count the last euro where and how they spend it. Ladies and gentlemen, the Opposition accuses us of trying to privatise the people's markets, of seeking to put legal persons on the people's markets, of wanting to eliminate producers and dismantle popular markets. None of this applies. There was exhausting consultation with the institutions and the Ministry, the bodies in the relevant committee of Parliament were consulted, and even the Minister himself at the gathering of a few skepticists about the government's intentions with this bill, went down the street and answered to everyone. Once again, SYRIZA and Opposition are oppositioning, just for the opposition. So what do we do with this draft law? We are giving solutions to problems and correct errors and omissions presented in the operation of the rural market as a whole. The world is changing and we must change and adapt to today the needs of producers, traders and consumers of the people's markets, an institution that operates almost a hundred years. SYRIZA's Law 4497/2017 failed to solve problems and therefore the entire article is removed from the first to sixty. And a new bill was rewritten from the outset, along with all the stakeholders. An example of the failure of the law of SYRIZA is Article 58 which provided for the operation of the digital platform through the integrated regional administration information system, the OPSB. This platform would record the licenses granted for outdoor trade, their renewables and the controls to be carried out and the imposition and collection of fines. A tool that would be useful but never worked for outdoor trade. It created inequality, exclusion in the issue of new permits, as well as losses in the revenues of the municipalities. Shouldn't someone at some point apologize for that? To correct this situation, we create the Integrated Information System Open Market. All information on popular markets and generally all outdoor markets will be entered in it. The notices on new licences and to cover vacant posts, as well as the audit reports and infringements and fines imposed, will be entered there. So in this way, our policy is 'all and all in light'. But in light we also want the prices of goods to be, so with this bill we are introducing into the e-consumer platform and people's markets. This is a platform that, as the Minister has noted, is currently using more than two hundred thousand consumers to earn money in households' pockets. Each seller will import until 8.00" on the e-consumer's platform the starting price of products available on the popular market as well as the quantity available per product. Thus, consumers will be able, through their mobile phone, to have access to the platform and to know and compare prices and where the product is closer to the most economic price. This will strengthen competition in lawful trade and will act as a brake on price increases and overall on the treatment of accuracy. But even in that, the opposition is saying 'no'. Obviously this is because there in SYRIZA they prefer other solutions to address the accuracy and the kinds of first need that households want to consume. So, are the producers of popular markets with intermediaries? No, they're producers. I would therefore like to refer to what Mrs Theanoo Fotou referred to earlier. I am referring to the markets without intermediaries, an institution which, as Mrs Fotou said, worked in the difficult years when the citizens were trying to find lower prices so that they could live and obtain the necessary benefits. These markets did not stop operating. These markets, Mr Minister, are unfortunately working to this day. I will give you an example: Sunday, October 6, 2021, 9.00' -13.00', 53rd release of products without intermediaries in the Tabouria in Piraeus, the area in which I am elected. They write: "This activity is a voluntary initiative of social solidarity and not a commercial activity." They read below: "We call on citizens to support, take part and take advantage of action without intermediaries, by taking part in an effort to promote a mutually beneficial social economy between producers, citizens and consumers". Let us make it clear, when we qualify and urge citizens to such actions, to actions that are without permission from anyone, to actions that no one knows whether they are cutting any evidence or not, to actions in which the products are sold there do not know what they are, to actions in which no one controls the prices of these products are, to actions that are motivated by a specific political space, mentioned it and Mrs Folios before that action, so that SYRIZA's colleagues also know it is promoted by the SYRIZA's port of ago, and the municipality's party of SYRIZA's payroll in Piraeus, so these actions, just so that colleagues may know, come and create problems and steal the part of the legal trader, the producer who comes from the night of his region selling his products to the people's market, the trader who pays contributions, who pays VAT, who pays VAT. They're the ones you're messing with. These initiatives that you are promoting come and steal the part of the neighborhood merchant. They are not mutual actions. They are actions that promote theft and the hindrance, Minister. I ask you at the Step of the House to take the initiative of the Ministry and fight against these actions, because it is important to support legal traders, because we have shown and proved that we are with legal trade and not by trade. To close, in order not to consume any more time, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law has two basic features: the first is that it is from the people themselves who live the daily lives of the people and of rural trade. The second is that it gives time to all those involved to prepare themselves until the beginning of this law, after being voted on by Parliament on the first Monday of 2022. In practice, the New Democracy Government shows in this bill that it respects the biopalestors of the ferry, the people who wake up at night to go and sell their products. We heard them all and, as the Minister for Development mentioned, the bill was written with them. That government shall not be closed to the offices. He talks with everyone, talks with society and when he needs to go down on the sidewalk. We have supported the Greek economy from the effects of pandemic, we support Greek households with EUR 500 million to deal with the energy crisis and if necessary here we are to see it again and redefinite the support measures. We support with this bill the producers, traders, people of hardship, consumers who want to ensure and consume the last euro that they do not have. So I invite you all to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u308	Thank you. However, when you have tolerance in time, it grows and grows and from one minute to three. It's okay. We have three more colleagues left. Mr. Vassilis Coke from SYRIZA has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, Mr President. To express my grief and warmest condolences to the family of Phophysic Genems and to colleagues of the Change Movement. Ladies and gentlemen, today the people's markets are operating and will work until the implementation of this law begins with a law, number 4494/2017, which the current government, as an opposition, considered to be in the right direction. It then considered in 2017 that it is also for the benefit of producers of popular markets, consumer markets and consumers. After four years he brings a law that tries to regulate the people's markets again. There are issues in this law which we all have to look at in the explanatory statement, but which unfortunately does not exist in this law. The need for a law arises from the explanatory statement. It explains why the government and the expedited Ministry should be passed. This necessity, ladies and gentlemen, when you have voted in favour of a law, becomes imperative and requires that it be fully detailed why it brings this moleculosis. Mr. Georgiadis told us that everything we support is in our imagination. Finally, is there a explanatory statement and we have not read it, have we not seen it? Probably. If we have not seen the explanatory statement, Minister, which explains to the Greek people why this bill should be passed, we apologise. If there is, and we haven't seen it, we haven't read it, we apologize. If the fair system remains 50% producers of popular markets and 50% sellers again, we apologise, because it is in our imagination. If there is a fair treatment of producers in this bill, then we will again apologise. Unfortunately, however, they do not exist for you. Many Members of the Co-Population have asked you to tell us exactly what the disagreement is to understand, although it has not been defended, as this bill should be, at least by the Co-Population. What's the point of disagreement? In Article 16 there is a moleculation process. When one hears that, one says: transparency, moleculation. Do we really want it until tomorrow when you vote to tell us how you came up with these criteria? How'd you end up? You want to fight agriculture unemployment? Have you investigated that the majority of people's market producers are made up of young people under thirty, which is why they are also getting more moleculosis? If you have such an investigation that the majority of people's market producers are under thirty, if you have an investigation that they want and can take on a higher education degree related to the primary sector, then yes, we can understand that. Will one explain to the National Representation what is the point, how these criteria came about and why is the producer's criteria differently with those of the seller? The only parent family is missing from the producer. Why are they different? In fact tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, you will vote on a bill, which does not explain to the Greek people, does not explain to the producers what its necessity is, why. You will also vote for a bill, which gives the Minister regulatory authority. From this particular minister, we've heard it all now, he's also been law-abiding. He said by means of a 'believable' that regulatory action was also done by ministerial decisions. Exceptionally, the Constitution says when it comes to a more specific issue, when it concerns a local issue or a detailed subject. Question: Is it detailed or specific or technical to define the sales for the producer and the professional seller? Is it a technical matter that by decision of the Minister of Development will the terms and conditions of issue and the evidence of an annual certificate of activity? Only the words ‘conditions and conditions’ do not have this possibility. So tomorrow you will vote for a bill of clipboard, imperfect and vague. I shall close, Mr President, in fact. You will explain to the Greek people the concrete measures, because many people say: But it is the government's fault for exogenous factors? It's the government's fault that he doesn't do anything essential to restoring accuracy. It does nothing essential to fuel and does nothing essential to energy, and it does nothing essential to the basic foods that affect our households. And instead, you bring a bill to which it does not explain what it was and what it is - even tomorrow - the necessity three years later when you voted quite differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u310	We continue with Mr. Constantine Maraveya from New Democracy and we conclude with Mr. Hussein Zabeck. Here, Mr. Maraveya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u311	Thank you very much, Mr President. Day of grief, today for the Greek Parliament, the first sitting without the Gennamas. The warmest condolences and colleagues in the Change Movement and of course their relatives. On the other hand, because there is the fence of life is a day of joy for Volos, Minister, who today you inaugurated the fish auction, showing that Greece can and must return a page, really see the services digitalised, modernise. Ladies and gentlemen, the people's markets do not only concern farmers who have their production there, they do not only concern professional sellers who are actually being marketed through the people's markets, first and foremost concern consumers themselves who are asking for cheap and at the same time quality products. We must not forget, therefore, that, beyond the commercial activity of the participants, which obviously respects and supports the Greek state, there is another extremely important dimension of the people's markets, especially today that the real economy is under increasing inflationary pressure and that is the protection of the consumer from phenomena, which can be achieved with two basic tools, increased competition and strengthening public market surveillance. Because without competition, without transparency and regulation of the markets, the only loser will ultimately be the ordinary citizen, the consumer of priority goods which are entitled to quality and safety protection from speculation. That is why this draft law introduces monitoring and control mechanisms for rural trade. A characteristic example is the digital platform e-Consumer which will allow price monitoring on popular markets and control of abusive practices. It is therefore a proper measure to provide an electronic statement of the prices of the products available before each market is opened. After all, transparency is a prerequisite for gaining the public's confidence, whether it relates to government policies or economic activities. In the same direction, the regular notice for the granting of licences for outdoor trade is also in progress. A sample of transparency is also a timely disclosure of the prices of all products sold. More generally, several representatives of the producers of the people's markets consider the draft law vehicle to modernise the people's markets which can bring a true revolution to the consumer habits of the ordinary world and contribute to the achievement of a double objective in economic development, but also to the protection of the incomes of the economically weaker Greeks. The bill also speaks of the fact that long-term pathogens are being corrected, unjustified and people's markets are being housed. On the other hand, we have heard criticism from the representatives of the peoples of Northern Greece, who are mainly concerned with the licenses and rights of those who trade in positions on the people's markets. To be fair, the Ministry of Development responded to many requests by bringing specific improvements to the committee in the draft law. It is thus clear that the duration of the sales permits will be five years, so that there will be no concern that they will necessarily enter the same procedure every year. In relation to the vacant posts, these will be disclosed for all people's markets twice a year, instead of once a year. 50% of the quantity to be sold by a producer on the popular markets will be calculated on the basis of his statement to the IAS for what quantity he intends to sell. In this way, any concern that a producer can be excluded completely and satisfys a request from the association of producers. Temporary withdrawal of a licence will only be necessary if three different checks within one year are found not to be provided. Easter markets will last thirty days instead of the fifteen days mentioned in the preliminary draft and short-term markets up to six days a week from four anticipated. Finally, the law will not apply immediately, but from 1-2-2022, to allow sufficient preparation for all stakeholders. All these improvements show that the relevant Minister, Mr Georgiadis, listens to all the proposals and addresses the issue of peoples with common sense. That is why I also emphasise to friends from northern Greece and especially to producers from Magnesia that the Ministry and the Government as a whole will also be next to the people's markets for whatever it takes. If the new framework is required, here are the Ministers, and Georgiadis and Papathanase, to see whatever new needs and to act appropriately. So there is no need to worry and to fear the new one. As the Federation of People's Markets Sellers admitted, the resulting new popular market will now welcome all Greeks in modern terms. This, then, must not scare anyone. Nor do some people deserve to imagine middlemen, monopolies, auctions and other dragons in rural trade. All that is imported is transparency, digitisation and better service to consumers who prefer popular markets. Mr President, I would like to dwell here on what SYRIZA colleagues, such as Mrs Pulou, have said about the bill and they are finding an attack on the people's markets and the introduction of mediators and monopolies in rural trade. It is to wonder where SYRIZA found in the bill such provisions. I personally, as a consumer who knows people and how they work I wonder what all these SYRIZA claims have to do with reality. Have many chains seen eyeing benches in the folk? I think that a limit has to be placed at some point in the sense of irrationality. Mr President, I would like to close up a few words on the Ministry of Development's amendment to change the conditions of construction in business parks to facilitate new investment in logistics. This is undoubtedly a very positive measure which also concerns Magnesia. As I have said to Mr Dimas and Mr Tsakirs, the Ministry must also see the financial incentives for the installation of new companies in BIP and business parks. In Volos, for example, there are ready receptors for logistics services and technological activities. And even, today, we had the opportunity to see a map showing how strategic Magnesia's geographical location is and what communications it owns with all the rest of Greece. It is therefore up to us to take advantage of the existing structures to attract new investment in the Greek region as well and in this context the new development law, which has been introduced into consultation since now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce that the Ministers for Justice, Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, National Defence, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Civil Protection, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Climate Change and Civil Protection, and the Deputy Ministers of Finance, Foreign and Home Affairs have tabled the 1-11-2021 draft law: ‘Amendments to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, other provisions of the Ministry of Justice’.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u313	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u314	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u315	Thank you very much, Mr President. What's going on with SYRIZA today? Isn't SYRIZA reading today? President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: On page 104, Mr. Haritsis, the explanatory statement on the bill. Furthermore, Mrs Fotou spoke about permits, I think she should be informed that the explanatory statement always exists in all draft laws to be passed in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u316	You have not given us the necessity, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u317	Please. Mr. Zabeck Hussein has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to express my sincere condolences to the loss of Phophysic Genemas in her family, the Change Movement and the whole of Parliament. Its loss is a great blow to the country's political life. Allow me, before I speak of today's bill, to refer to the development of the pandemic and the increase in cases. Today, a record of incidents has been recorded since the beginning of the pandemic. We are ahead of the fourth wave, but I think the government, instead of taking advantage of past experience and not repeating the same mistakes, continues to leave the citizens helpless as sheep for slaughter. How else can one explain the fact that every attempt to increase vaccinations has stopped? There is no serious information campaign for vaccination and no attempt to promote the third dose. The hospitals remain simply under-represented and, even worse, because of suspensions of work of invasive health. In universities we see daily images of congratulation. A similar picture exists in schools too. In fact, instead of dismantling the student population, we have division mergings. To complete here and without any reasonable measure of 50%+1 cases required to suspend a school department. It is now certain that the government, with all these moves, plays the health of the citizens and risks or rather seeks a new lockdown. Since last week we have seen cases in northern Greece launched and in Xanthi over a hundred times a day. But the General Hospital of Xanthi remains as a missionary. We were also surprised by the decision of the 4th Health Region to suspend the operation of regional health services and centres throughout the region of East Macedonia and Thrace other than Kavala. The purpose of the decision is to serve doctors from primary health care, although their specialties are not necessary to deal with the pandemic. Thus, on the one hand, it stops the operation of primary health care, which serves standing needs of remote settlements and helps decongested hospitals and, on the other, covers the needs of hospitals with patches. Ladies and gentlemen, today there was a protest to suspend the operation of the Abdiras Health Center, which serves the needs of almost thirty thousand inhabitants and two municipalities, the Municipality of Avdiras and the Municipality of Topiros. Also, this particular health center is the only health structure in the place of Xanthi, so that residents have no alternative but to contact private doctors. Meanwhile, it was surprising that the Center for Health Ferra Evros was finally excluded from the suspension of operation. I think that, for reasons of equality, it would be advisable to lift the decision on all health centres without discrimination. At the level of the economy, the pandemic especially in Xanthi has caused serious losses. Outdoor trade was hit to a huge extent, having had at least two more lockdowns than the rest of the country. Xanthi’s well-known bazaar and popular markets were closed for months. However, even when market operation was allowed again, the movement was reduced and the measures, which were put in place to operate the market more, have caused problems rather than solved them. Of course, the pandemic has also hit agricultural production. A characteristic example was the difficulty of finding land workers and huge quantities of unsavoured products. However, instead of providing additional support for agricultural production, the government puts additional obstacles, first and foremost, to this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the institution of the people's markets in our country has survived for ninety-two years. The purpose of their recommendation was to establish non-mediate contacts between consumers and producers, without interference by intermediaries. Today's government's decision to attack this eternal institution is disastrous. Last spring the Ministry raised the question of the new institutional framework for rural trade, causing citizens to react strongly. It was definite that it provided for the possibility for heterogeneous professionals to claim licenses on the popular markets and provided additional molecules for postgraduate holders to claim licences, as if it were an ADP competition. In any case, after a series of recurring rounds, we arrive at today's bill. At that time, however, a huge increase in energy is recorded which affects producers and consumers. The main question, therefore, is why now. Why change the institutional framework while there is recent legislation? The answer is that it is the government's strategy to dismantle the social nature of the people's markets, at the expense of the consumer, the producer and the professional. How else can we explain the choice of abolishing the license of the people's market? The possibility for producers to make use of their licence where they want to be replaced by the position is abolished. This position will be obtained after the notice and moleculation of the parties concerned. In addition, 50% of production licences are abolished. In other words, it is only possible to operate popular markets with traders. The choice of criteria is, in my view, unfair and unrelated to the subject. At the same time, every people's market will have its own conditions and rules of operation. This is an absolute change in the nature and social purpose of the people's markets. Article 25(3) states that care is taken to ensure that the public market space does not hinder access to schools, hospitals and fire-fighting stations. I would like to stress that, for Xanthi, despite the fact that you have raised the issue of preventing fire-fighting vehicles from being adjacent to the bazaar, you have not taken any initiative to regulate the issue. Please see the subject. Finally, this bill is the tomb of the people's markets as we know them. It alters their character and from a tool to contact the consumer with the producer unmediated, they become an outdoor supermarket. Instead of dealing with the question of price rises and energy increases, the government chooses to hit the people's markets, which are not privileged markets, but people who bother to make a living. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Producers and market professionals are addressing simple daily consumers and have built confidence-building relationships with them. That is why the people's markets are now an institution. Even at the very last moment I call on the government to withdraw the bill, respect the history of the people's markets, to deal with the real problems of this economic activity, and instead of putting further obstacles, to deal with its main obligation to support the citizens in health and economic terms which our country is going through. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u319	Mr President, can I have the floor for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u320	You're welcome, Mr. Haritsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u321	Mr President, before we close the sitting, I think it is good not to create any impressions where there is no need. The Minister referred to the question of the statement of reasons. The criticism we have made and made as a SYRIZA parliamentary group is quite clear. We are not saying, Minister, that the bill is not accompanied by the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u322	That's what I heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u323	That's not what we said, Alas. But the thing is not to tick in the box. The question is whether the explanatory statement really justifies the feasibility of this bill and does not just copy the text of the draft law, as is the case here. That is the criticism we are making and I think that is a very reasonable criticism. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u324	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-01-S1-commons.u325	With the consent of the House at 22.23 p.m. the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, November 2, 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's legislative work: Continue discussion and vote on the principle, articles, amendments and all the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: "Reforming and modernising the regulatory framework for the organisation and operation of rural trade, arrangements for the exercise of entertainment activities and for the simplification of activities in education, improvements to the chamber legislation and other provisions of the Ministry of Development and Investment".
